

401 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2941 words

HEADLINE: The Baron Of the Bronx -- Second of two articles.;
In an Antipoverty Empire, A Clinic Is an Opportunity

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB with DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Despite its fresh coat of paint, the large forest-green medical clinic at Westchester and Metcalf Avenues in the Soundview section of the Bronx echoes the blandness of its surroundings -- a row of private homes, some elevated train tracks, an empty supermarket.
 On Monday mornings, when it is busiest, the clinic seems unremarkable, its large sitting area half-filled with dozens of people willing to wait hours rather than deal with Medicaid mills or hospital emergency rooms. 
But behind this scene is a tempestuous and complicated story. In part, it is a story of how, for years, a neighborhood was deprived of access to decent medical care. But it is also a story of the ubiquitous influence of a man who, for a quarter-century, has been the antipoverty lord of the South Bronx, Ramon S. Velez.
 
An Ambitious Project
 The building at 1675 Westchester Avenue once housed a Federally financed model clinic, the Massive East Bronx Comprehensive Health Center. The ambitiously named project was born of the dire need for medical care in one of the most underserved areas of New York City.
 In the mid-80's, though, the clinic was taken over by a faction friendly to Mr. Velez. And over the next several years, according to audits and Government reports, management and medical care deteriorated to the point of bankruptcy.
 A board meeting was disrupted by threats of violence; money was mishandled, and the clinic's original staff of idealistic young doctors were replaced by a largely part-time crew that included one physician who no longer had a license. The Federal Government canceled hundreds of thousands of dollars in support, and the state followed suit. By the time Massive closed in 1991, its consulting accountant reported, it was borrowing money from a "street banker" in a doomed effort to pay its bills.
 
Expanding an EmpireA
 It was another setback for the South Bronx, but not for Mr. Velez, who saw an opportunity to expand his empire. Last year, his largest nonprofit organization bought Massive's building and started the new private clinic that subsists largely on Medicaid reimbursements.
 Mr. Velez and his allies say Massive's troubles can be traced to dissident board members and earlier financial problems. "I had no control over Massive," Mr. Velez said in an interview. "If so, it would be an institution today."
In fact, Mr. Velez served as a consultant and interim director, and for long periods his associates were in charge. Their role in Massive's sad history tells a lot about the way they have built their larger empire, which for many is the quintessential political machine fashioned with antipoverty money.
 At Massive and elsewhere, free of many of the contracting and hiring rules that apply to government agencies, Mr. Velez and his allies have long worked the interplay of antipoverty programs and politics to their advantage. They have taken control of turf and government dollars and used them at least as much to sustain their political organization and private enterprises as to help the South Bronx. In the process, Mr. Velez has become a millionaire.
 
Programs Help Thousands
 With an annual budget of more than $30 million, including operations run by relatives and associates, the Velez empire sprawls from the health clinics, substance-abuse programs and other social services dispensed through Mr. Velez's flagship Hunts Point Multi-Service Center, to the 56 government-subsidized apartment buildings developed or managed by the South Bronx Community Management Corporation headed by his son, Ramon Velez Jr.
 Many of these programs provide thousands of people with needed social services. Some have been highly rated. But many have been investigated and, at one time or another, denied funds because of poor management, questionable finances and poor service.
 Mr. Velez, who is 60 years old, boasts not only of helping some of New York's poorest residents but also of building "institutions" throughout the South Bronx. He dismisses the criticisms as old or politically motivated, and points out that none of the investigations have led to indictments.
 "I've been able to advance not because anyone in particular gave it to me," he said, "but I fought hard to get something with the people and for the people."
 
A Clinic Is Born
A New Building, A Committed Staff
 The initial $1 million in grants for Massive were arranged during the last days of the Carter Administration, recalled Mr. Velez, who said he traveled to Washington to help secure the funds. The idea was that poor neighborhoods suffered not only from a shortage of doctors -- at the time, only eight practiced within several miles of the proposed clinic -- but also from a lack of preventive care. By providing that care, residents would be less dependent on emergency-room treatment when they got sick.
 The clinic was to be staffed largely by members of the National Health Service Corps, who serve in exchange for Government medical scholarships. The half-dozen doctors assigned to the center would provide preventive care for a projected 35,000 patient visits a year.
 By most accounts, the first years, 1981 and 1982, were successful in reaching a growing number of people. Visiting on a job interview in late 1982, Dr. Nicholas Fiebach, an internist about to enter the health service corps, recalled a spanking new building with a committed staff. "It seemed like a wonderful little neighborhood center," he recalled.
 
The Battles Begin
 But fault lines emerged. In early audits, the center's accountants warned of discrepancies between what patients paid and the amounts deposited in the bank, of inadequate inventory controls and of vendors paid without authorization or documentation.
 Ethnic and political battles on the center's board of directors, on which Velez-related forces were a minority, began to percolate. At the same time, the potential value of controlling the center was becoming evident: under the terms of its lease, Massive's building -- fertile ground for a neighborhood power base -- could be bought for $300,000, or $1 million less than its appraised value. Also, there was hope that the center would attract millions in government funds for other health services, like home care.
 In May of 1983, according to five people involved with the center, as many as 15 men barged into a board meeting where a new executive director was about to be named. According to these accounts, they harassed the interim director and the prospective new director with taunts and threats until the meeting ended in disarray.
"That was a real nightmare," recalled Bertrand Simmons, a longtime board member who still recalls the fear that night. "There were threats, intimidation," he said of the intruders, who were "coming in to force themselves on the board."
 The acting executive director and 10 board members resigned, and the prospective director never returned. The health service corps doctors walked out, forcing the center to close for three weeks.
 
A New Administration
 Mr. Velez denies involvement with the meeting, though four people associated with the center say the intruders were his allies. His presence, though, along with that of his associates, was soon in evidence. According to notes taken by a health service corps worker, the Federal Public Health Service held a meeting at the center on June 7, instructing the staff to return the following Monday. Present, along with the new acting administrators and a handful of board members, was Mr. Velez.
 Within a year, he was listed on documents and letters as a consultant to the board. Within a few years, one of his daughters was working at the center as an $18,000-a-year health educator. One of his allies, Gumersindo Martinez, now the supervisor of a methadone clinic run by the Hunts Point Multi-Service Center, became co-chairman. And Antonio Nin, a man from Mr. Velez's hometown, Hormigueros, P.R., who Mr. Velez said was like a brother to him, became executive director, even though the Public Health Service first rejected his appointment, citing a lack of appropriate credentials.
 Mr. Nin, who said he got the job by answering a newspaper advertisement, said the dispute arose because he had a master's degree in clinical psychology, rather than in health administration. He said he had years of experience as administrator of a health clinic -- the one operated by Mr. Velez's Hunts Point Multi-Service Center.
 The Public Health Service remained dubious, but it acceeded to Mr. Nin's hiring at the behest of Massive's new board. However, the health service became concerned that Mr. Velez might be exerting undue influence over the board. Bernard Passer, who headed the service's Division of Health Service Delivery, made a point of speaking with Mr. Velez.
 "He knew Nin, and what we did was put two and two together," Mr. Passer said. "He admitted that he was interested in the project and overseeing that everything went right." Mr. Passer said he emphasized to Mr. Velez that the board had to remain independent.
 
Ambitious Initiatives
 Massive's new administration attempted ambitious initiatives. Within a year, it won a lucrative city home care contract and had begun to contemplate buying the building.
 Neither enterprise worked out. In late 1985, the city canceled the $2.4 million home care contract, which provided roughly 250 jobs. In a review of Massive's operation, the city found significant deficiencies in five of eight areas. And thoughts of buying the building -- even though it would have to the economic advantage of the center -- went nowhere as its deficit ballooned to nearly $250,000 from $3,968 a year earlier.
 "I never met anyone in my life that was so disorganized at managing property and the business," said the center's landlord, Myron Exelbert, after years of fruitless talks about a possible sale. "These people lived in dreams."
 He added that people involved with the center were trying to buy the building for themselves at the same time. "It was clear there were people there more interested in making money than serving the community," Mr. Exelbert said.
 Meanwhile, Massive stopped using an established medical data-processing company and replaced it with Bronx Computing Systems and Service. The company is owned by a profit-making subsidiary of South Bronx Community Management, which is run by Ramon Velez Jr. Bronx Computing collected more than $70,000 for its work for Massive.
 
A Company That 'Ramon Wanted'
 Massive's consulting accountant, Sunil Mukhopadhyay, said he had begun to solicit bids on the data-processing contract, but that Mr. Nin told him, "Ramon wanted a company to come in." As for the quality of Bronx Computing's services, the accountant said: "They didn't give any service. They just processed. I could do that on my P.C."
 Mr. Velez says he doesn't remember if he recommended Bronx Computing.
 "And if I recommended," he said, "there is nothing wrong with it. All the computer companies were from the outside and they were overcharging us."
 A State Health Department report found that it was Bronx Computing that was doing the overcharging -- billing at two-and-a-half times the going rate. As for service, the Health Department reported thousands of dollars in late billing had severely hurt the center's cash flow.
 Mr. Simmons, the longtime board member, said that despite repeated requests, the board was never shown financial documents involving Bronx Computing. Mr. Velez's relationship with the company is the subject of inquiries by the State Health Department and the City Comptroller. Both are trying to determine if Mr. Velez has a financial interest in the company that he should have revealed. Mr. Velez denies having such an interest.
 
The Breakdown Begins
'An Unacceptable Level of Service'
 For many on Massive's board, the failure of the home care operation and the hiring of Bronx Computing were simply too much.
 Dissident board members sued, alleging that Mr. Velez and his allies on the board were manipulating Massive for their own ends. The suit sputtered and eventually died. Many of the health service corps doctors began to look for other postings. They were replaced by whatever help the center could find, much of it part-time, and so less able to provide the ongoing preventive care that had been the center's reason for being.
 In an interview, Mr. Nin maintained that he brought financial stability to the center and increased patient visits from 18,000 a year to 45,000. He also accused the young doctors of not working hard -- a charge several called insulting and laughable.
 Government records also contradict Mr. Nin. The State Health Department reported that while Mr. Nin had made bookkeeping improvements, Massive still suffered from a lack of internal financial controls and, in 1986, had a deficit of more than $150,000. The department also said that the number of patient visits never surpassed 30,800 in 1986, then dropped to 23,000 in 1987, 13,000 in 1988 and as few as 11,000 thereafter.
 
Federal Grants Withdrawn
 In 1986, the Public Health Service chose not to renew its last grant to Massive, citing "an unacceptable level of service," "significant deficiencies" in clinical programs and the "misrepresentation to patients of the status of medical assistants as 'Dr.' "
 Mr. Nin disputed the findings and said many of these assistants had degrees from their home countries in Latin America but were not certified as doctors here.
 For four years, the state stepped in with $650,000 in funds. But Massive continued to deteriorate.
Among those hired as physicians was Elie Abraham Horn, who before joining Massive, according to State Health Department records, had surrendered his license amid professional charges of writing unwarranted prescriptions for Qualuudes. Mr. Nin and Mr. Velez said they were unaware of this and that Mr. Horn had been hired through a personnel service. Dr. Horn could not be reached for comment. Another doctor was later found by Connecticut authorities to have billed Medicaid for patients she hadn't examined.
 
A New Executive Director
 By 1988, according to a state review, the handful of remaining doctors showed up only a few mornings a week and the clinic had no registered nurse. The review also determined that laboratory tests were not being done for some children and pregnant women and that some patients were not receiving follow-up care despite abnormal test results.
 Citing high blood pressure, Mr. Nin stepped aside, and in 1988 an acting executive director came in for $1 a year: Mr. Velez.
 Mr. Velez credits himself with putting Massive on sound footing and training the center's board on its responsibilities. "I paid all the debts and accounts," he said. "I paid everybody."
 Mr. Mukhopadhyay commented: "He maybe thought that's what he did. He never asked for any financial report or anything."
 As for board training, Mr. Simmons, the longtime board member, said, "That's news to me."
 
Borrowing From a 'Street Banker'
 Soon, the center was being run by a dental student named Waldemar Rivera, the brother of a friend of Mr. Velez. The chairman of the board was Luis deRosa, who worked for another Velez-related organization. According to State Health Department analyses, the center had $4,600 in assets, which were frozen by the Internal Revenue Service for unpaid taxes, and more than $400,000 in liabilities. In a memo, Martin Kivell, a department official, likened the center to "a patient gasping for air and deteriorating physically on a daily basis."
 In Mr. Mukhopadhyay's final audit, he reported that cash was disappearing from Massive's front desk, that the phones had been cut off, and that it had resorted to taking "highly improper" and "usurious loans" from a man he identified in an interview as a "street banker" named "Dom." He said Dom lent the center as much as $40,000 in cash at roughly 23 percent annual interest.
 In 1991, the State Health Department chose to discontinue its support.
 A last Medicaid payment was divided between two of Massive's many creditors: the I.R.S. and Paul Bleifer, Mr. Velez's personal attorney and the lawyer for Massive's board, who had filed a lien. Doctors who had worked in Massive's waning days have yet to be paid a total of $90,000 in fees.
 
Joining the Empire
A New Clinic, And a New Name
 In 1991, only one "serious" bidder applied to reopen the center building, according to Peter Slocum, a State Health Department spokesman: Mr. Velez's Hunts Point Multi-Service Center.
 A year earlier, the Public Health Service had withdrawn a $1.1 million grant from Hunts Point's own health clinic after finding serious problems with the oversight of its finances and management. But Mr. Slocum said the state still held the Hunts Point clinic to be "in good standing."
 Today, after a dozen turbulent years when it was known as Massive, the health center has been rechristened the "Governor Juan Ponce de Leon Health Center" and Mr. Velez's name hangs high on the wall.
 The center operates largely on the strength of Medicaid billings, processed by Bronx Computing. The State Health Department is evaluating its performance. On three of four visits by reporters in recent weeks, the waiting room was largely empty.
 Massive, meanwhile, remains a troubling memory to some who held out great hope for it.
 "If you think that was the only health center in the area, that was a tremendous loss," said Mr. Simmons. "Those were poor people and they needed the place."


GRAPHIC: Map of the Bronx showing location of health clinic. (pg. 22)
Photos: The building that houses the Gov. Juan Ponce de Leon Health Center, a private clinic on Westchester Avenue in the Bronx, used to house a Federally financed model clinic, the Massive East Bronx Comprehensive Health Center; The health center operates largely on the strength of Medicaid billings, though the waiting room is often largely empty. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUNTS POINT MULTI-SERVICE CENTER; SOUTH BRONX COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT
CORP COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH SYSTEMS (56%); MEDICAID (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUNTS POINT MULTI-SERVICE CENTER; SOUTH BRONX COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT
CORP MEDICAID (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC) ; SOUTH BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ANTIPOVERTY
PROGRAMS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID MEDICAID (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); TRENDS (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); POLITICS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: VELEZ, RAMON S; VELEZ, RAMON JR; GOTTLIEB, MARTIN ; GONZALEZ, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



402 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Ending the Subsidies For Timber Barons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Forest Service's plan to phase out taxpayer-subsidized timber sales in our national forests (front page, April 30) is long overdue. The timber companies contend the Government loses money by complying with environmental standards. Would critics argue that we should revert to the days when we played erosion roulette with watersheds for half the West's drinking water supply? Or not worry about the impact on fish and wildlife?
Moreover, the highest cost for taxpayers stems from bulldozing roads to remote forest areas, often up steep hillsides, a road system eight times the interstate highway system. 
 The industry, trying to create a backlash, claims that phasing out subsidized sales will send lumber prices into a spiral. National forests provide 12 percent of the nation's timber, and timber from private lands can pick up any slack. The industry also claims that protecting majestic ancient forests in the Northwest is driving up lumber prices. Those prices, adjusted for inflation, are lower than they were in 1979.
Studies show that in the regions most affected, tourism, recreation and "footloose" businesses (communications-based, for example) are passing logging and other extractive industries as job sources. A tree left in the ground has more value to the local economy than riding out on a logging truck.
 
GAYLORD NELSON
Counselor, The Wilderness Society
Washington, May 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WILDERNESS SOCIETY; FOREST SERVICE (US) THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDERNESS SOCIETY; FOREST SERVICE (US) THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; LOGGING INDUSTRY LOGGING INDUSTRY (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (92%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); 

PERSON: NELSON, GAYLORD GAYLORD ANTON NELSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



403 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN'S BOOKS;
Stuff Misty for Me And Other Tales of Growing Up

BYLINE: By Felicity Barringer; Felicity Barringer, who reported from Moscow between 1986 and 1988 for The New York Times, now writes from Washington.

 BODY:
AT the desk across from me sits a fine, curmudgeonly fellow who can -- and does -- recite the entire text of Margaret Wise Brown's "Goodnight Moon" at unlikely intervals. "In the great green room," he begins, "There was a telephone / And a red balloon." Two decades after he lulled his toddlers to sleep with the book, he can call it all back.
As he recites, the words that dug deep ruts in his memory gain traction in my own. I drive backward in time, not very far, to moments when small boys, bundled in diapers or towels, warmly filled my lap after their baths. Fingers, still small then, point and bang at the pages of the same book. 
 The singsong good nights are fixed in childhood time. That period is populated with people who lived and others who were imagined. But what if the bunny in striped pajamas in that great green room grew up? Got a life? Took S.A.T.'s and went out on dates? Dropped out? Went into the Army? Got a job?
The very idea is dissonant, a kind of betrayal. Yet the decades since the 1930's have given us a small regiment of real children who, like the bunny, are icons of childhood but who, like the rest of us, are harnessed to clocks and calendars now. They are the children who served as models for some of the most-loved children's books. Like actors, they are themselves, yet a part of them belongs to the culture.
Unlike actors, they have not chosen this dual existence. Really Rosie didn't know, until she was in her 40's, that Maurice Sendak had been inspired by her antics and had immortalized her dramatic turns on her Brooklyn stoop. She is in her 50's now. The children of Robert McCloskey's "Blueberries for Sal" and "One Morning in Maine" are in their 40's. They still live on the New England coast in close proximity to sea gulls and clam chowder. The voice on Sal's answering machine is cheery, but recent calls about the books were not returned.
For some of these eternal children, it is a surprising pleasure to be linked with a character alive in the popular imagination. They have a sort of fame without the attendant problems of celebrity. For others, the character that once adopted their name and identity now has a separate life.
Barbara Bemelmans, whose father, Ludwig, created the self-possessed, winsome Parisian gamin Madeline, speaks of that fictional character with affectionate kinship. That child is not so much a mirror of what she once was as a companion. She, like her mother, was christened Madeleine; an aunt later suggested Barbara. Her name was changed before the birth of her fictional namesake in 1939, thus depriving her of her most obvious link to the Parisian girl of infinite aplomb. ("To the tiger in the zoo, Madeline just said, 'Pooh-pooh.' ")
"I would have got much more mileage" out of the more famous name, she said, though Bemelmans rearranged the vowels in the character's name because "Made-line" was easier to rhyme.
"My father said she was a little bit of his mother, a little bit of my mother and a little bit of me," said Ms. Bemelmans, her parents' only child, who was 3 when her father wrote the first of the "Madeline" books. "I would certainly like to be like Madeline," added Ms. Bemelmans. "She has so much spirit and spunk. I think maybe she's -- I don't want to say better than I am, but . . . yeah, better than I am."
The soon-to-be-married, 26-year-old Alexander Viorst recounted a pell-mell succession of feelings -- pride, resentment, bemusement and pride again -- when he thought about himself in his mother Judith's book "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day" (1972).
"Generally, if I'm meeting someone for the first time and if they have kids, or are my generation and have read the book, they say, 'You must be Alexander,' " said Mr. Viorst, a businessman in Chicago.
"At the same time, people have the impression that I'm going to be some wild, unhappy, ratty-haired-looking child. They are quite shocked when they see me for the first time. When I meet younger kids, they don't believe I am who I am. I'm supposed to have red hair and gum stuck in it. When I try and impress 7- or 8-year-olds with who I am, they walk away. They think I'm some impostor."
But overall, he said, the book's life has made his life easier more often than not.
"I was looking for a job at a firm in Chicago once. I was introducing myself, telling everyone who I was. One of them had a 5-year-old they had recently read the book to. There were three other executives -- they all ended up talking among themselves, swapping stories about how their kids liked my mom's books. I was just the audience. Twenty minutes later I had a job."
If Alexander had a horrible day, he has had some wonderful ones since. Paul and Maureen Beebe are known for their wonderful days, taming the wild horse called Phantom and her foal, Misty. In the late 1940's, Paul rode Phantom to victory in the race that became the climactic moment in Marguerite Henry's "Misty of Chincoteague" (1947).
A decade later the boy from the Virginia shore came out of the Coast Guard, bought a new Chevrolet and drove it into a tree. "He was killed right after my son's birthday," said Paul's aunt, Jeanette Beebe. "It was pretty bad on the island right then, because right after Paul, then Grandpa Beebe passed." Maureen Beebe, Paul's sister, still lives on Chincoteague in a house without a telephone; she sometimes runs a gift shop in the summer. Wild horses are still rounded up on the island every July, though a conservationist group is trying to end the practice. There are no more races, though. Jobs are disappearing; the area's economy suffers.
Against that backdrop, memories of Paul and Maureen and the Phantom and Misty have become more important on Chincoteague. For Jeanette Beebe, the old, idyllic scene of family love and two children's devotion to their horses was worth preserving. When Misty died in the early 1970's, Jeanette and her husband had her stuffed -- "preserved" is the word she uses. "She's in Pennsylvania now," she said. "She'll be down here for Memorial Day. She'll be here all summer."
It is a different esthetic, perhaps, but is Jeanette Beebe's desire to preserve Misty in the flesh really all that different from the desire of Barbara Bemelmans to preserve, in this new day of Madeline-mania, the spirit of the child her father created? Is our own preservation, in rhyme or image or joy, of these remembered common childhoods a way of fixing part of our own childhood in our memory?
Really Rosie was born in 1957, when Maurice Sendak wrote "The Sign on Rosie's Door," drawn from the street theater put on years earlier by a 9-year-old Sicilian-American girl with a yen for drama. Mr. Sendak, then a 16-year-old boy, watched unnoticed from a second-floor window. In the book, Rosie becomes "Me, Alinda, the lovely lady singer," who gathers her friends Pudgy and Dolly and Lenny to watch her perform, or disguises herself and convinces them that Magic Man will turn them all into firecrackers for the Fourth of July.
A quarter of a century later, Mr. Sendak found out where his muse had gone. A television cameraman, working on a story about the author, knew the girl he was describing. She had no memory of him or of those days. He sent her his books. The stories made her cry, Mr. Sendak told an audience shortly afterward. Why? "I don't know," she told him when they finally spoke on the telephone. "I suppose it's because I wanted to do what I imagined when I grew up, and I never did. I got married when I was 18, just out of school, and now I've got five children, and we work very hard, and I'd forgotten all about Alinda and all about Pudgy and Dolly and the rest."
Mr. Sendak and Rosie Stacompiano made plans to meet. "Finally, obviously, we both wanted to and couldn't," he told his audience. "Then her husband, George, called and said that it was best we didn't; that it was so upsetting to her, and so exciting to her, and so unreal, that we should leave it alone."
Maybe I didn't want little Sal to call back, fearing she would tell me she was a harried mother, or a harried single person, or a lawyer or a doctor or a radical feminist for whom "Blueberries for Sal" had about as much relevance as reruns of "Rin Tin Tin." If actors and politicians always seem disappointingly shorter in person, the children of our imaginations should not be disappointingly older than we expect. Perhaps not even real.
But, like the rest of us, they have to live outside the childhood time. Only the bunnies and the badgers and the Cat in the improbable Hat stay put where we want them to be. Still, at the cost of living in two worlds, Rosie and Alexander and the other real children have achieved a kind of immortality. By lending us a piece of their childhood, they help us reclaim our own. When we are all gone, they'll still be there. I want them to stay in that childhood time. And I am ashamed that I want to make real people prisoners of my imagination.
In the great green room, the bunny in striped pajamas crawls under the covers. And sleeps. "Goodnight stars / Goodnight air / Goodnight noises everywhere."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Maurice Sendak from "The Sign on Rosie's Door" and Ray Cruz from "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day.")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (68%); MAINE, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); NORTHEAST USA (68%); MAINE, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); LITERATURE (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



404 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2661 words

HEADLINE: In the Cockpit of the Free World

BYLINE: By Elaine Sciolino; Elaine Sciolino is chief diplomatic correspondent of The New York Times.

 BODY:

TURMOIL AND TRIUMPH
My Years as Secretary of State.
By George P. Shultz.
Illustrated. 1,184 pp. New York:
A Robert Stewart Book/
Charles Scribner's Sons. $30. 
 THE popular perception of George Pratt Shultz is of a stolid, dependable, often stubborn statesman who made no waves and avoided the limelight in his six and a half years as Ronald Reagan's Secretary of State. His languid manner of speaking confounded world leaders, who at first failed to appreciate the power of his intellect, while his impassive style frustrated journalists, who longed for more flair and drama. Mr. Shultz could talk more passionately about the yen-dollar relationship and the information revolution than about peace in the Middle East or arms control agreements with Moscow.
For months after he took the job at the State Department, following Alexander M. Haig Jr.'s abrupt resignation in mid-1982, Mr. Shultz was an unknown in diplomatic circles. On his first official trip to Germany, the embassy press kit read on its cover, The Official Visit of Charles P. Shultz. When he set off with Mr. Reagan in November 1982 on a swing through Latin America, the motorcade left him behind in Brasilia. "Then and thereafter," he recalls, "I was fully aware that on a Presidential trip, the Secretary of State is nobody."
His sprawling memoirs are a kind of coming out, a firsthand description of what he calls "life . . . in the cockpit of the free world." The book captures some, but not all, of the real complexity of the man and of the Presidency he served. Stripped of the inevitable speeches, Congressional testimony and after-dinner toasts, "Turmoil and Triumph" is the most balanced of all the Reagan-era confessions, falling somewhere between Caspar W. Weinberger's panegyric to Mr. Reagan and David A. Stockman's scathing attack. At nearly 1,200 pages, it is also the most comprehensive.
Drawing on the skills he developed as a labor negotiator, Secretary of Labor and of the Treasury in the Nixon era and a president of a major corporation (Bechtel), Mr. Shultz approached foreign policy as a bricklayer rather than an architect. Those skills served him well in dealing with Moscow. His greatest achievement as Secretary of State was helping to move Mr. Reagan along an ideological journey from verbal warfare -- and the belief that the Soviets wanted to take over the world -- to sober diplomacy and pragmatic moderation. In part because of his efforts, the Reagan Administration will be remembered less for its virulent strain of anti-Communism than for taking bold steps towards establishing normal relations with Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
In other areas, Mr. Shultz was less successful. He may not have shared the President's passion for anti-Communist guerrilla wars, which drew the United States into unsavory alliances for the sake of democratic principles in places as disparate as Angola and Nicaragua. But he faithfully executed the policies. By the time he was able to start negotiations in Central America, for example, it was too late in the Administration to accomplish very much.
Similarly, when Mr. Shultz stepped out of character in 1983 and tried to strike a Kissingerian kind of deal between Israel and Lebanon as a first step toward bringing peace to the Middle East, he made the mistake of ignoring Syria, and the ill-conceived initiative predictably failed. Despite the energy he expended at the end of the second Reagan Administration, the Middle East was no closer to peace than when Mr. Reagan took office.
Mr. Shultz presents himself in this book first and foremost as a chain-of-command company man who yearned to head a well-organized, collegial foreign policy team, but who found himself instead a lone voice of common sense battling ideologues like William Casey and Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, who were pressing Mr. Reagan never to negotiate with the enemy. Writing in a style that is like Mr. Shultz himself -- unadorned and deliberate -- he describes himself as the consummate loyalist to a President with "visionary ideas." Even when Mr. Shultz was at odds with Mr. Reagan, he believed it was generally the advisers, not the President himself, who were at fault. When Mr. Reagan made mistakes, he was the victim of their bad advice. The major flaw in the book is that Mr. Shultz is incapable, even now, of laying bare the shortcomings of his former boss, who floats ghostlike through the narrative.
By contrast, Mr. Shultz uses his memoirs to complain about his place in the system -- that he was out of the loop, that Mr. Reagan's other advisers were constantly overturning his decisions, that he could never talk to the President alone. The former president of Bechtel just couldn't get used to the fact that in Washington "nothing ever seemed to get settled."
Despite his reputation for patience and forbearance, he also reveals himself as a swashbuckling interventionist, eager to use force -- to combat terrorism, to install a democratic government in Grenada, to curb Muslim militias in Lebanon. And for months now he has called for punitive air strikes against what he has called Serbian genocide, likening Secretary of State Warren Christopher's four rules for American military intervention to "a counsel of inaction." If Mr. Shultz were Secretary of State today, he would be arguing forcefully that it is the moral responsibility of the United States to take charge and act, with or without allies.
In "Turmoil and Triumph," Mr. Shultz attacks Secretary of Defense Weinberger mercilessly for his reluctance to use the American military to combat terrorism, for calling for a delay in the invasion of Grenada, for resisting the deployment of American troops to Lebanon after the massacres in the Palestinian refugee camps in Sabra and Shatila. "To Weinberger, as I heard him, our forces were to be constantly built up but not used," Mr. Shultz says. "Everything in our defense structure seemed geared exclusively to deter World War III against the Soviets."
William P. Clark, Mr. Reagan's first national security adviser, is pictured as indecisive, duplicitous and "deeply uncomfortable and insecure in his role in foreign affairs and national security." William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence, is trapped by simplistic anti-Communist ideology that colors the Central Intelligence Agency's assessments and renders them worthless. "Bill Casey and the C.I.A. acted independently and provided information on which I could not necessarily rely," Mr. Shultz writes. The relationship between the two officials deteriorated even more during the Iran-contra affair when, he says, "Casey had grossly distorted the proper conduct of government, and I was going to make it my crusade to stop him from continuing these renegade operations." The bureaucratic wars were so bloody that one has to wonder how anyone ever got any work done.
MR. SHULTZ came up with his own two-layered strategy in fighting back. First, he would struggle to convince the President privately of certain proposals in the hopes that Mr. Reagan would parrot back the arguments in announcing his decisions. "The task before me," he says during one battle with the National Security Council staff, "was to make them irrelevant." Second, he would threaten to resign, a dramatic offer he made several times. More than once along the way, James A. Baker 3d, then the chief of staff, later George Bush's Secretary of State, advised Mr. Shultz to stop whining. "You're winning," he said, "so what's your complaint?"
The most dramatic part of the book is Mr. Shultz's version of the Iran-contra affair, the sale of weapons to Iran in exchange for American hostages held in Lebanon and the disbursement of the profits to Nicaraguan rebels. Mr. Shultz argues here, as he has elsewhere, that he was outmaneuvered by the National Security Council, who kept the details of the program secret from him. In staying on, he says, he saw himself as Mr. Reagan's rescuer, the only one at the White House who was determined to prevent the President from getting caught in a web of lies and from continuing the arms-for-hostages swap after it was exposed. "I was convinced that my success in this fight was essential to save the Reagan Presidency," he declares.
But he refuses to accuse Mr. Reagan of lying when the President denied knowing that he was trading arms for hostages. "Ronald Reagan still truly did not believe that what had happened had, in fact, happened," he writes in perhaps his most damning criticism of his former boss. "I had seen him like this before on other issues. He would go over the 'script' of an event, past or present, in his mind, and once that script was mastered, that was the truth."
Mr. Shultz's assertions that Mr. Bush tried to obscure his role as Vice President in the Iran-contra scandal challenge Mr. Bush's account that his knowledge was minimal. They also raise serious questions about Mr. Shultz's own motives. During last year's election campaign, he refused to discuss Mr. Bush's activities in the affair, and the delay in his revelations makes one wonder whether Mr. Shultz was trying to help get Mr. Bush re-elected.
Although Mr. Shultz is revelatory in dealing with Mr. Bush, he is less than candid in discussing Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams, his trusted aide, who pleaded guilty to two misdemeanors in the Iran-contra affair, including concealing from Congress his solicitation of a $10 million donation from the Sultan of Brunei for the Nicaraguan rebels. (Mr. Abrams was pardoned last Christmas by Mr. Bush.) Mr. Shultz had intended to make the solicitation himself during a visit to the Sultanate, according to other accounts by Reagan Administration officials, but in the end gave Mr. Abrams the task. In "Turmoil and Triumph," Mr. Shultz's only mention of the matter is in a footnote in which he says that during his trip to Brunei, he "did not raise the question of support by Brunei for the contras." But then, memoirs are an exercise not only in setting the record straight, but also in enhancing the place of the author in history.
Take the policy toward Iraq, for example. Mr. Shultz was responsible for the "tilt" toward Iraq's President Saddam Hussein in the early 1980's, when Washington feared that Iran was poised to win the border war between the two countries and spread revolution throughout the Islamic world. During the Reagan years, the United States shared intelligence with Iraq, secretly urged its allies to sell weapons to Mr. Hussein, removed Iraq from the State Department's list of countries sponsoring terrorism and kept it off, and extended billions of dollars in American-backed loan guarantees to Baghdad.
In August 1988, after a cease-fire was declared in the eight-year Iran-Iraq war, Zalmay Khalilzad, then an official on the State Department's policy planning staff, drafted a memorandum to Mr. Shultz calling for a more balanced approach to the two countries. The paper recommended that the United States should take steps to curb Iraq's growing influence by lifting the war-related sanctions against Iran. When Mr. Shultz learned about the draft proposal in a news report, he called an urgent meeting and angrily vetoed it, officials familiar with the incident told me at the time.
So it is curious that Mr. Shultz writes that once the war was over, "it was clear to me that no further reason existed for the United States to give Iraq the benefit of the doubt for balance-of-power purposes against Iran." To that end, he says, the State Department recommended in one of its transition books to the incoming Bush Administration that "a new and tougher policy toward Saddam Hussein's Iraq was now appropriate." What Mr. Shultz omits is that the transition book's recommendation -- also written by Mr. Khalilzad -- mirrored the one he had rejected.
This book does capture some of the high-spirited George Shultz that eluded public view. One cannot imagine Henry Kissinger or James Baker 3d or Warren Christopher presenting Japan's Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe with a Washington Redskins pennant and singing "Hail to the Redskins." But even when Mr. Shultz is dealing with his lighter side, he has his secrets. His wife Helena once told reporters not only that he had a tiger tattooed on his backside, but that he used it to play with the grandchildren: they got to press the tattoo, and he got to growl for them. In his memoirs Mr. Shultz notes the intense news media interest in his posterior, but maintains what he calls a " 'neither confirm nor deny' policy." The only official comment on the matter came from the State Department spokeswoman, Phyllis Oakley, who told reporters, "I'm not in a position to comment."
Despite the omissions, the book clearly illustrates Mr. Shultz's microhistorical approach to foreign policy, one devoid of sweeping generalizations and grand gestures. He left behind no "Shultz doctrine," but rather a mixed legacy built on what he calls "incremental steps." He no doubt agrees with Dean Acheson, who said that "statesmen are not architects but gardeners, dealing with such materials as only nature can provide." Indeed, Mr. Shultz calls one section of his book "Gardening," an indication that he tried to do what he could with what he had. And maybe that's the best that can be expected.
 
 
 
THE TOOLS OF REMEMBRANCE
 By the time he came to write his memoirs of his more than six years as Secretary of State, George P. Shultz said he had read all the earlier versions of the genre -- the efforts of American statesmen making their bid to mold history. He said in a recent interview in Washington that he found the autobiographies of Henry A. Kissinger and Dean Acheson the best of the lot, providing the kind of historical sweep to which he aspired in writing "Turmoil and Triumph."
But he also wanted to provide a sense of immediacy, of the day-to-day tug and pull on the office of the Secretary of State and how the occupant lurches from one seemingly unrelated issue to another.
Toward this goal he was helped by the notes taken during most of his tenure by his executive assistant, Charles Hill, a veteran Foreign Service officer. The skill of taking good notes is highly prized in the diplomatic corps, and Mr. Shultz soon discovered that Mr. Hill was a master at keeping meticulous contemporaneous notes of everything that happened. "When I returned from the White House, I briefed him as to everything that I saw happen," Mr. Shultz said.
In the end, Mr. Shultz found he had nearly 200 standard steno pads filled with Mr. Hill's neat and highly readable handwriting. The Hill diaries and their completeness became well known during the prolonged investigation of the Iran-contra affair, because they helped investigators expose many details of the scandal. The most noteworthy example was Mr. Hill's notes of a conversation between Mr. Shultz and Caspar W. Weinberger, then the Secretary of Defense, which cast grave doubt on George Bush's assertions that he had only limited knowledge of Iran-contra matters.
With Mr. Hill's notebooks as one of his prime tools of remembrance, Mr. Shultz ensconced himself at Stanford University, where he is an emeritus professor of international economics and where he has long had a cozy home on the campus. In addition to "Charlie's notes," as he calls them, Mr. Shultz had his own papers: "Everything that came into the Secretary of State's office that had G.P.S. on it," he said, referring to his initials and to a standard procedure for identifying the flow of documents in the Government.
The State Department allowed him to copy all those papers at his own expense and to ship them to a Federal documents center in San Bruno, Calif., near his base in Palo Alto. A Stanford archivist with a high security clearance set to work cataloguing the Shultz papers because, as Mr. Shultz said, "It's all useless until it's catalogued." NEIL A. LEWIS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State George P. Shultz with President Ronald Reagan and Vice President George Bush at the White House in January 1985. (James M. Thresher/The Washington Post/From "Turmoil and Triumph")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TURMOIL AND TRIUMPH: MY YEARS AS SECRETARY OF STATE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (55%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); WRITERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; SHULTZ, GEORGE P RONALD REAGAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



405 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 40; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: May 16, 1993

 BODY:

 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 1	2	SHADOWFIRES, by Dean Koontz. (Berkley, $6.99.) A woman is stalked by her supposedly deceased husband.	 	 	 	 2	43	JURASSIC PARK, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A biotechnician clones dinosaurs for use in a theme park.	 	 	 	 3	13	THE PELICAN BRIEF, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $6.99.) A woman law student probes the murder of two Supreme Court justices.	 	 	 	 4	68	THE FIRM, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) A young lawyer learns that his firm is engaged in secret, possibly illegal activities.	 	 	 	 5	4	"I" IS FOR INNOCENT, by Sue Grafton. (Fawcett, $5.99.) Kinsey Millhone investigates a man once charged with murdering his rich wife.	 	 	 	 6	3	WAITING TO EXHALE, by Terry McMillan. (Pocket, $5.99.) The friendships and romances of four black women in Phoenix.	 	 	 	 7	3	JEWELS, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $6.99.) The life of a woman who becomes rich by dealing in precious stones.	 	 	 	 8	57	A TIME TO KILL, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) Racial tensions surface during the trial of a man charged with murder in rural Mississippi.	 	 	 	 9	4	THE WITCHING HOUR, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $6.99.) A woman descended from witches brings a drowned man back to life.	 	 	 	10	3	FRENCH SILK, by Sandra Brown. (Warner, $5.99.) The ordeal of a New Orleans woman suspected of killing a television evangelist.	 	 	 	11	3	SWEET LIAR, by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket, $5.99.) In New York, a Kentucky woman copes with a mystery dating back to the Roaring Twenties.	 	 	 	12	1	FATHERLAND, by Robert Harris. (Harper Paperbacks, $6.50.) A thriller set in the Third Reich 20 years after Hitler wins World War II.	 	 	 	13	4	DANGEROUS, by Amanda Quick. (Bantam, $5.99.) Romance and danger in the ballrooms and country houses of Regency England.	 	 	 	14	4	THE ASSASSIN, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Jove, $5.99.) The Philadelphia police contend with a plot to kill the visiting Vice President.	 	 	 	15 *	1	NIGHT OF THE HAWK, by Dale Brown. (Berkley, $5.99.) American airmen and marines undertake to rescue a serviceman in Lithuania.	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	NonFiction	 	 	 	 1	3	THE SILENT PASSAGE, by Gail Sheehy. (Pocket, $5.50.) The psychological and social significance of menopause for today's women.	 	 	 	 2	2	NOT FOR SALE AT ANY PRICE, by Ross Perot. (Hyperion, $5.95.) The Texas billionaire discusses America's economic and political problems.	 	 	 	 3	497	THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone/S&S, $10.95.) Inspiration. (LP)	 	 	 	 4	13	I KNOW WHY THE CAGED BIRD SINGS, by Maya Angelou. (Bantam, $4.99.) The poet's account of her childhood and adolescence.	 	 	 	 5	83	A YEAR IN PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) A sojourn in the south of France.	 	 	 	 6 *	104	YOU JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $10.) The different languages men and women speak.	 	 	 	 7	1	WHERE THE BLUEBIRD SINGS TO THE LEMONADE SPRINGS, by Wallace Stegner. (Penguin, $11.) Essays celebrating the American West and criticizing the illusions it has fostered.	 	 	 	 8	29	BACKLASH, by Susan Faludi. (Anchor/ Doubleday, $12.50.) A journalist contends that the media and political groups are staging a war against women's rights.	 	 	 	 9	19	EARTH IN THE BALANCE, by Al Gore. (Plume, $13.) The Vice President discusses factors affecting the environment.	 	 	 	10 *	18	REVOLUTION FROM WITHIN, by Gloria Steinem. (Little, Brown, $11.95.) The reflections of a feminist on the struggle to achieve self-esteem.	 	 	 	11 *	13	WOMEN ON TOP, by Nancy Friday. (Pocket, $5.99.) The changes in social life during the past two decades that have affected the sexual fantasies of women.	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Advice, How-To and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 1	2	TEACHING YOUR CHILDREN VALUES, by Linda Eyre and Richard Eyre. (Fireside/S&S, $11.) Advice for parents of children from age 2 to the teen-age years.	 	 	 	 2	134	THE T-FACTOR FAT GRAM COUNTER, by Jamie Pope-Cordle and Martin Katahn. (Norton, $2.99.) How to reduce fat in one's diet.	 	 	 	 3	6	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK: Volume Two, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) More tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 4	117	THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE, by Stephen R. Covey. (Fireside/S&S, $9.95.) Principles for success.	 	 	 	 5	92	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) Some 500 tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.	
 
These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 38,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
*An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
LP indicates that a book is available in large print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); LITHUANIA (65%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LITHUANIA (65%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MENOPAUSE (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



406 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 40; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
BARN BLIND, by Jane Smiley. (Fawcett Columbine, $10.) Jane Smiley's first novel, published in 1980 and never before in paperback, deals with an ambitious woman determined to have her farm-bound children become prize-winning equestrians. The author "handles with skill and understanding the mercurial molasses of adolescence, and the inchoate, cumbersome love that family members feel for one another," Michael Malone said here.
THE CULTURE OF CONTENTMENT, by John Kenneth Galbraith. (Houghton Mifflin, $9.95.) The contented -- the top 20 percent in income in our society -- are a minority in number but a majority in power, asserts John Kenneth Galbraith. Opposed to economic reform, these are the voters who brought us the lower taxes and laissez-faire approaches of the Administrations of the last two Republican Presidents. Last year our reviewer, Robert N. Bellah, said: "I know of no book -- and I have read a number of excellent discussions of the subject lately -- that treats more incisively or more convincingly the profoundly injurious consequences of these policies to our economy." Houghton Mifflin has also reissued Mr. Galbraith's strangely prescient 1968 novel THE TRIUMPH ($9.95), in which the American Government intervenes in Latin America on behalf of a corrupt but anti-Communist dictator. Donald Barthelme found the book stuffy but, he said here, "The story is dandy." 
 THE DARK SISTER, by Rebecca Goldstein. (Penguin, $11.) A feminist writer named Hedda, obsessed with the literary art of Henry James, writes a very Jamesian tale that blends fiction, history and her own relationship with her sister. In 1991 our reviewer, Angeline Goreau, said that Ms. Goldstein's third novel "represents an impressively ambitious advance."
THE DISUNITING OF AMERICA: Reflections on a Multicultural Society, by Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. (Norton, $7.95.) The author cautions against educational curriculums that celebrate ethnicity at the expense of the unified, democratic culture that has always been the American ideal. Last year our reviewer, Frank Kermode, called this a "sane and temperate book." More on the subject can be found in LOOSE CANONS: Notes on the Culture Wars, by Henry Louis Gates Jr. (Oxford University, $9.95), which argues for an open approach to the humanities based not on political correctness but on the need to understand our own diverse origins. The book "should prove especially illuminating and reassuring to nonacademics," James D. Bloom said here last year.
EVER AFTER, by Graham Swift. (Vintage International, $11.) A professor becomes embroiled in existential questions when he comes upon the notebooks of Matthew Pearce, a 19th-century man whose discovery of a fossil led him to abandon God and embrace Darwin. Last year our reviewer, MacDonald Harris, said: "The prose is rich, lush and unhurried; this is a modern British novel for the reader who is getting bored with the contemporary American mode of fiction."
IN THE REALM OF A DYING EMPEROR: Japan at Century's End, by Norma Field. (Vintage, $12.) Norma Field, the daughter of a Japanese mother and an American father, explores the state of civil rights in Japan through the cases of three citizens who questioned the culture's conformist ethic. The book is notable for its "well-researched, well-observed and completely absorbing reporting," John David Morley said here in 1991. Also available in paperback is THE OUTNATION: A Search for the Soul of Japan, by Jonathan Rauch (Little, Brown, $10.95), in which a young journalist who spent six months in the country reached the surprising conclusion that the Japanese may not be so different from us after all. Last year one critic called his book "one of the very best accounts of modern Japanalia."
LITTLE WOMAN, by Ellen Akins. (Harper Perennial, $10.) The heroine is anything but little: large and ungainly, Beauty Skinner leaves her husband and twins to set up a shelter for battered women and pursue her own ulterior motives. In 1990 our reviewer, Susan Dundon, called this novel "exquisitely written."
WOODROW WILSON, by August Heckscher. (Collier, $18.) This biography relates the achievements of Wilson's political life to the evolution of his character, also illuminating the President's relationships with both his wives. The author's "description of Wilson's personality is by far the most persuasive I am familiar with," John A. Garraty said here in 1991.
NELLIE WITHOUT HUGO, by Janet Hobhouse. (Anchor/Doubleday, $9.) In this 1982 novel, Nellie, a 30-year-old New Yorker, takes advantage of her husband's absence to have an affair with a brutal ex-lover. Although our reviewer, Katha Pollitt, found the female characters' attitudes and choices regressive, she described the author as a "lively, intelligent writer."
THE MIND'S SKY: Human Intelligence in a Cosmic Context, by Timothy Ferris. (Bantam, $13.95.) Timothy Ferris, a science journalist, explores the connection between the universe of mind and the universe of matter. His is an "informed, inspired investigation of the intellect and the infinite . . . anchored in hard science and good sense," Dava Sobel said here last year.
KISSING THE GUNNER'S DAUGHTER, by Ruth Rendell. (Mysterious Press/Warner, $5.50.) In Ruth Rendell's latest Inspector Wexford mystery, her hero investigates a gruesome triple murder in an elegant English country house. Last year our reviewer, Winfred Stout, called it an "intricate story that hinges on vanity and self-deception."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: HTN (NYSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (55%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); FAMILY (77%); ETHNICITY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CURRICULA (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH (73%); DONALD BARTHELME (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



407 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 2; Page 17; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
Of Hems and Haws: The Insiders' Guide to 'Dave'

BYLINE: By Maureen Dowd

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the new political comedy "Dave," the film makers have clearly gone to a lot of trouble to ape the look and tribal customs of the capital.
But the true measure of their success is found in Sigourney Weaver's wardrobe as First Lady. Proving that even great beauties can be dimmed by Washington style, Ms. Weaver is trapped by verisimilitude into wearing outfits of transcendent blandness. Her skirts hover between knee and midcalf at that peculiar length favored by professional Washington women that has never been fashionable anywhere, anytime in history. 
 Fashion here echoes politics; skirts and hairstyles usually end up at compromise lengths designed not to offend anyone or make a statement of any kind. Like Presidents, skirts try to please all of the people all of the time -- and often end up pleasing none.
The skirt lengths may be impeccable, but there are a few things in "Dave" that the cognoscenti-critics in Washington can quibble with -- the color of the rug in the Oval Office, the egress of the tunnel leading out of the White House, that tone of selfless idealism that exists in Washington only in the movies. But setting aside such cavils for a moment, there are lots of things that ring true about the Ivan Reitman comedy about a Presidential look-alike, played by Kevin Kline, who takes over for an ailing President.
1. Helen Thomas, that crusty doyenne of the Washington press corps who plays herself in the movie, rolls her eyes in disgust after the President takes to the podium in the White House press room to announce that Every American Who Wants a Job Can Have One, and then refuses to take press questions.
"That's accurate," confirms Dee Dee Myers, the real-life White House press secretary who jousts with reporters about job programs from behind that podium. "Helen rolls her eyes at me every single day."
2. The ruthless, lying, power-hungry White House chief of staff, played by the wonderfully oily Frank Langella, has plenty of historical precedent. Bill Clinton's chief of staff and childhood friend from Arkansas, Thomas McClarty, is uncommonly polite and low-key, but it wasn't so long ago that John Sununu, George Bush's chief of staff, was threatening to use a chain saw on the tender body parts of a Chamber of Commerce official who did not go along with a White House position.
Chiefs of staff do sometimes secretly believe that they are smarter than the Presidents they work for. And it's not so hard to imagine one blurting, as Mr. Langella does about the pauper-turned-President Mr. Kline: "Was he on the Trilateral Commission? Was he a Senator? Was he in 'Who's Who' seven years in a row?"
Frank Mankiewicz, the Washington public relations executive and former Democratic pol who has a bit part as a Wise Man in the movie, says: "We have had some terrible chiefs of staff. But I don't suppose any of them are that ugly or brutal -- except maybe Bob Haldeman."
3. Senator Alan Simpson, the Republican from Wyoming whose tart tongue has occasionally earned him the sobriquet "The Meanest Man in Washington," plays himself with perfect astringency, carping about Mr. Kline's do-gooding President: "This guy's out to lunch. The lights are on, but nobody's home."
And Senator Paul Simon, the Democrat from Illinois, does a funny turn on politicians' insatiable desire to claim credit, commenting about the President's jobs bill: "It's a little bit like the program I presented four years ago."
4. Proving that Washington is beyond parody, its talking heads fit into Hollywood farce without even having to ham it up, because the members of "The McLaughlin Group" and CNN's Michael Kinsley and Robert Novak are already, to some extent, conscious caricatures of themselves.
Indeed, Mr. Kinsley recalls how easy it was for Mr. Novak, playing his partner on "Crossfire" in the movie, to work himself into a conservative froth over the celluloid President.
"They told us the basic situation, that a President was trying to cut the budget to fund a homeless program, and let us improvise from there," Mr. Kinsley says. "Novak starts screaming and yelling, 'This man is refusing to cut the capital gains tax!' He worked himself up into what seemed to be a genuine rage. It was phenomenal." Unfortunately, that particular scene was cut, but Mr. Novak is splendidly sneering in the scenes that remain.
5. One nice artistic touch, echoing the Yale sweatshirt Kevin Kline wears in homage to George Bush, is a shot of an oil painting of Millie, the Bushes' English springer spaniel, based on a real painting that was given to the Bushes by the Secret Service and displayed in the White House residence during their tenure.
Not that anyone cares, since "Dave" is a Capra-esque fantasy, but the movie is based on a false premise: that the Secret Services sometimes uses Presidential look-alikes as decoys to walk through crowds at the end of speeches.
The Secret Service might use limousines as decoys. And it is true that the last two Presidents have had a lead Secret Service agent who closely resembled them in face and build, presumably to confuse would-be assassins. Mr. Clinton has a tall agent with a Brillo pad of salt-and-pepper hair who could be his brother, and Mr. Bush had one who was his height, with chiseled, WASPy features and slicked-back brown hair.
Although he's proud that "Dave" got better reviews than the other spring movie about capital politics, the remake of "Born Yesterday," Michael Kinsley lodges an objection to the film's Perot-style message, in which the Kevin Kline character sneaks his old friend Murray, an accountant (played by Charles Grodin), into the White House to help pare $650 million out of the bloated Federal budget. Murray does it nearly painlessly with a few financial shell games.
"This plays to the sense that anyone with any common sense who's not a Washington insider or Beltway type could balance the budget in a second without causing anybody any pain," Mr. Kinsley says. "To me, that is the basic fallacy that is destroying this country." The columnist and "Crossfire" host also drolly notes that if all it took was an accountant named Murray, the Federal Government would not be in such disastrous straits.
"All the trouble started with a guy named Murray, Murray Weidenbaum, the head of the Council of Economic Advisers under Reagan," he says.
It is a fun trivia game for Washingtonians to check out the slight disparities in the movie. Dee Dee Myers notes with amusement that when Kevin Kline asks the pack of White House reporters and photographers to give him some privacy as he talks to a small boy at a homeless shelter, they leave quite amenably.
"The reporters all just walk away," she says. "If only my life could be so easy." Ms. Myers is a friend of Gary Ross, the politically active screenwriter of "Dave," who learned just how farcical politics can be when he worked as a speechwriter for Michael Dukakis in 1988.
Proving that vanity is more important than verity in Hollywood, the color of the rug in the Oval Office has been changed from light blue to golden brown because it is more flattering to the actors' skin tones. There is a tunnel under the White House, like the one Kevin Kline and Sigourney Weaver use to run off for a bit of "Roman Holiday" slumming, but it comes out at the Treasury Department, not Lafayette Park.
And the door in the movie's press room is on the left side of the room, across from the podium, whereas the real door is a sliding door in the wall behind the podium. (O.K., we're getting a little picayune here.)
At least "Dave" does not take the sort of egregious geographic liberties that past Washington movies have. The 1987 thriller "No Way Out," for instance, had Kevin Costner riding the subway to Georgetown, where it does not go, and had Gene Hackman eating breakfast at a rooftop restaurant that, judging by the angle of the Lincoln Memorial in the view from the restaurant, could only have been in the middle of the Potomac River.
And the new "Born Yesterday" was based on the fallacious assumption that the Washington elite usually talk about such highfalutin topics as Alexis de Tocqueville and Europe qua Europe, when they are often jabbering about the latest with Charles and Di and the Redskins' prospects for next season.
And, of course, the Washington of "Dave" is a much more sentimental place than the real capital, which is, like Hollywood, often compared to a snake pit.
Already, one jaded Washingtonian, complaining that "Dave" is simply a rehash of movies like "Prisoner of Zenda" and "Moon Over Parador," has concocted a plot for a better film: When a powerful movie studio chief falls ill, the board of directors -- nervous about the health of the company's stock -- plays for time by replacing him with a talented but unknown screenwriter who is his double.
The screenwriter-turned-mogul immediately cancels plans to make "Born Yesterday" and "Dave."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin Dunn, standing, and Kevin Kline as the President in "Dave" -- What do the capital cognoscenti say? Up or down? (Francois Duhamel/Warner Brothers)(pg. 17); Kevin Kline and Sigourney Weaver in "Dave" -- Washington style dims even great beauties. (Francois Duhamel/Warner Brothers)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DAVE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (71%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN SUNUNU (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



408 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Second-Home Market Begins to Stir

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
FEW sectors of the residential market have suffered as much in the last five years as second homes. Prices for beach and country houses in most parts of the Northeast have fallen by as much as 30 percent, pushed down by the 1987 stock market crash, the subsequent recession and changes in the Federal tax code.
But in the last year the second-home market has shown faint signs of life, particularly in more affordable areas, like the Jersey Shore and the Poconos, but also in costlier locales, like the Hamptons, Vermont and Cape Cod. 
 Increasingly, New Yorkers are also buying second homes outside the Northeast, like South Miami Beach, Fla., and the fast-growing resorts along the South Carolina coast, like Kiawah Island and Hilton Head.
"We're getting a ton of people from the Northeast," said Brad Munday, a sales manager with Kiawah Island Real Estate on Kiawah Island, S.C., a barrier-beach resort island about 20 miles south of Charleston. "We're even getting people who are moving here from the Hamptons, Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket."
In many of the traditional vacation areas in the Northeast, second home sales seem to have risen in the last year while prices have remained flat or fallen. Brokers, however, are optimistic that this pattern, combined with a lack of current construction, will start to reduce the glut of homes on the market. And, they say, a shrinking inventory of second homes eventually means rising prices.
"Our office did 50 percent more volume last year than the year before, but at reduced prices," said Paul Spera, a real estate agent in Stowe, Vt., and a former regional vice president of the National Association of Realtors.
Brokers attribute the current blip of increased sales primarily to mortgage interest rates, now at 20-year lows, and to the fact that many sellers are "highly motivated," industry lingo for willing to accept less, sometimes substantially less, than their offering price.
Second-home buyers, brokers note, are also usually more affluent and confident about their financial future. Thus, they do not have the job insecurity that has paralyzed many potential buyers of primary residences in many places.
"I don't think you'll ever see a better market for people who have money," said Ann M. Crotty, sales manager of Westledge Real Estate in Mystic, Conn., who noted that homes that had sold for $300,000 in nearby Stonington Borough, a popular weekend and summering place for New Yorkers, were now selling for as low as $180,000.
Many areas, like the Poconos, also have large numbers of foreclosed properties, which has attracted so-called bottom feeders. "Investors are coming up regularly just to check the inventory," said Denise Fey, a sales agent with Davis R. Chant, a real estate broker in Milford, Pa., in the Poconos, where homes on several acres can be found for as little as $70,000.
FORECLOSURES also pull down the sale prices of other homes in the immediate area, as has been the case in parts of the Hamptons, where many homes, especially those under $400,000, are being offered at fire-sale prices.
"There are bargains out here," said Timothy G. Davis, managing partner with Allan M. Schneider Associates in Southhampton, L.I.
In the Hamptons, it is the top end of the market, homes selling for $800,000 or more, that has held its value better than lesser-priced properties, those generally selling for $200,000 to $400,000.
"We have had more activity out here than we have had in a couple years," Mr. Davis said.
"A market that has come back is south of the highway, Water Mill, Bridgehampton, $500,000 to $800,000," he added, referring to the Montauk Highway. "A good percentage of that inventory has been sold this year."
Though much of the sales in second homes of late has been spurred by reduced prices, some brokers also believe, wishfully perhaps, that vacation home prices will soon start rising as the acquisitive baby-boom generation, especially the large number of two-career couples, enters its prime earning years over the next 10 to 15 years.
Jean Luedtke, a manager with HCH Properties in Harvey Cedars, N.J., an affluent oceanfront community on Long Beach Island on the central Jersey Shore, said that her company had sold 57 homes in the first four months of 1992 and 61 in the first four months of this year.
She also said that the average sale price for that time period was $309,000 last year and $375,000 this year.
"The market is coming back, and across the board," she said. "We're seeing properties go for $2 million and for $150,000."
Ms. Luedtke said that many of today's buyers came from the same socioeconomic background of previous generations of second-home buyers; many are professionals, lawyers or doctors or work in senior management for large corporations.
There is a difference, Ms. Luedtke added. Today's second-home buyers are often younger, sometimes in their mid-30's to mid-40's, rather than the late 40's and 50's, which is when previous generations bought beach or country houses for weekend and summer use. These buyers, in many cases, also often have few or no children and aren't burdened by the specter of college costs.
"Their accountants are telling them that they are the making too much money and they should buy something," Ms. Luedtke said. "They don't want any more exposure in the stock market, and real estate is now looking like a good investment again. It is also something they can use and enjoy."
The ranks of second-home buyers also include more single professional women and married couples trading up from their first second home.
STANLEY AND SUSAN FISHMAN of Livingston, N.J., for example, recently bought their second second home in North Beach on Long Beach Island. They sold their first one for $310,000 in January and used the money to buy a larger home on the ocean side of Long Beach Boulevard, the island's main thoroughfare, for $440,000. The home, being built "on spec" by a local developer, is 90 percent complete and the Fishmans expect it to be finished and to move in within a few weeks.
"One time the market seemed strong and then it died, and now it seems that it is coming back," said Mrs. Fishman, who is 45 years old and a nurse. Her husband, 48, is a lawyer. They have three children 19 to 23 years old.
Any full-throttle revival of the second-home market, however, depends on the economy's recovery. And the recovery may become very regional, with some areas steeply up and others down sharply. Currently, the Northwest and the Middle West have strong economies and second-home markets; the Northeast, which has more second homes than any other region, is lagging behind in both.
"Prices are, well, they are not going up," said Charles F. Lockhart, executive vice president of the Cape Cod and Islands Board of Realtors in South Yarmouth, Mass. "But the banks are a little more willing to lend, and the outlook on the economy is a little brighter."
Specifically, he said, average sale prices have dropped 27 percent, from $169,313 in 1988 to $133,197 last year. "Sales volume, though, was up at the end of 1992 -- we were over 30 percent ahead of 1991," Mr. Lockhart added. "I would hope that we have leveled off and I have a hunch maybe we have."
Precise statistics on second-home sales do not exist because second homes are defined by use rather than construction. Moreover, the best studies, by the Bureau of the Census and the National Association of Realtors, have not been updated in several years. (In 1990, according to a report by the National Association of Home Builders in Washington, about 4 percent of the nation's households owned about 5.2 million second homes. The organization believes that new construction of second homes will increase, from about 75,000 units a year to 100,000 to 125,000 by 1995.)
HOMES in vacation-oriented areas used primarily for second residences in the past are also increasingly being sold to those who own no other homes. These buyers are often retirees, telecommuters, people willing to make long daily commutes in exchange for a cheaper house in a more desirable location or those who would rather rent near where they work and take out a mortgage for weekend or summer property.
The second-home market has been depressed in large part because of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which took away the deductibility for passive losses, which had allowed investors to deduct losses from other forms of income. This effectively removed investors from the market. Owners of a second home can still deduct their mortgage interest and taxes, provided the mortgages don't add up to more than $1 million.
Moreover, if the home is rented out for only 14 days or less, the income is tax free. And if the house is rented for more than 14 days it can be classified as a rental property, which allows deductions -- up to the amount of rental income generated -- for a variety of expenses, including insurance, maintenance, utilities and improvements, during the period when the house is considered rental property.
Taxes aside, in some areas, particularly those like the Hamptons where second homes are in demand during the summer season, three or four months of rental income can cover a year's worth of mortgage payments.
If there is any area teeming with New Yorkers in search of a second home, it is South Miami Beach. "The rehabilitation market in SoBe is primarily made up of New Yorkers who find great bargains in these old buildings and turn them into condos for other New Yorkers," said Jeff Cohen, president of the Miami Beach Association of Realtors.
Both Mr. Cohen and Mr. Munday of Kiawah Island said that New Yorkers were being lured out of the Northeast for the second homes by the better weather, cheaper prices, less traffic and congestion and an overall higher quality of life.
"A lot of our buyers are people who are buying a second home and hope at some point to phase it into their primary home, either in retirement, or they hope they're company will transfer them, or they'll start their own business and work from home," Mr. Munday said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanley and Susan Fishman at ease by their second home in North Beach, N.J. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); VERMONT, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POCONO MOUNTAINS (PA); NEW JERSEY; HAMPTONS, THE (NY); CAPE COD (MASS); VERMONT UNITED STATES (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); VERMONT, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESORTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); SALES FORCE (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); BEACHES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); MOUNTAINS (59%); TAX LAW (57%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



409 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Housing the Homeless;
Utilizing Private Vacancies for Families

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
"IT'S a marvelous program," says Baxter Lanius. Then he identifies it by the uneuphonious acronym that has been its misfortune from inception -- EARP.
Mr. Lanius owns 10 small rental buildings in Harlem and West Harlem, bought in the 80's at a time of rising property values. "A child of the Harlem bubble," he calls himself. 
 Now he finds himself with 10 vacancies in his 300 apartments and trouble finding tenants. The pool of low- to moderate-income people who can afford the basic rent that privately owned apartments need for decent operations is limited. Many tenants in Harlem are on public assistance and the state's rent limits are well below the level needed for sound operation.
Figures from one major management group, Ralph Langsam Associates, show that its vacancy rate has reached 4.2 percent in the 7,000 apartments it runs in the Bronx, from 149th Street to Gunhill Road. They are in 170 buildings, more than 100 of them upgraded by moderate rehabilitations in the last 10 years.
The Emergency Assistance to Relocation Program -- EARP -- is one of the mechanisms city government has devised to induce owners to take very-low-income tenants. The program helps provide permanent housing units for the families who enter transitional housing, usually from doubled-up situations, as homeless people.
The program's specifications have been revised over the years. In its present form, the owner gets a one-time payment of $2,300 per family member when the tenant moves in on a two-year lease with the right to an eight-month extension. The tenant comes as well with a Federal Section 8 rent subsidy, which pays the difference between the economic, or fair-market, rent to which the owner is entitled, and the share of that rent paid by the tenant, pegged to 30 percent of income. Current fair-market rent is $630 a month for a two-bedroom, without utilities.
The effectiveness with which government bridges the gap between the economic rent and the tenants' ability to pay will be a fundamental test in the 90's of its ability to help low-income families find permanent housing. Many of the families that come through the transitional-housing system -- usually young women with one or more children -- have had no experience with independent living and need social or educational services as well as housing.
Using the existing private housing stock with governmental rent assistance may also be a way of warding off a new wave of housing abandonment. Already tax arrears show signs of increase in low-income housing. Payments received by owners under the emergency assistance program will help pay off these arrears.
The significance of the Emergency Assistance to Relocation Program is coming into focus just as the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins is moving to establish a separate agency called the Department of Homeless Services to coordinate the delivery of housing and social services to homeless families and singles. Legislation is pending before the City Council's General Welfare Committee.
Managing the transition to the new agency is Charles V. Raymond, director of the Mayor's Office for Homeless Facilities and Service Development, its commissioner-designate. Mr. Raymond said there has been an upward trend in the use of the private stock for permanent rehousing of the homeless. The extent of the use of the program depends on the level of availability of rent subsidies.
Roughly half the families in transitional facilities eventually find permanent housing on their own, officials say. The rest have been rehoused with government help. About 22,000 families over the last five years have gone from transitional housing into public housing or newly renovated city-owned tax-foreclosed property.
But in fiscal 1993 (ending June 30) privately owned housing will get more formerly homeless families than public-sector housing for the first time in five years. The projected figure is 2,700 apartments, up from 1,420 last year and 350 when the program began in fiscal 1989.
Mark Engel, president of Ralph Langsam Associates, has been a user of the emergency assistance program.
"OUR vacancy rate has been the highest since I've been in the business -- 18 years," he said. "It used to be 2 percent over-all. Now it's 4 1/2 percent."
His well-maintained apartments rent for $440 a month for one-bedrooms and $550 for two-bedrooms. A shortage of two-bedroom apartments generally is one of the limiting factors in the use of the private stock as permanent rentals for homeless families.
"I don't want to overload any one building with EARP families," Mr. Engel said. "I've taken 50. You can screen them just like any other tenants." He said he favored limiting the number of families per building taken through this tenanting method, a principle some City Council members want to enact into law.
New York City is in the position, practically and perhaps legally as well, of having to provide emergency housing for any individual or family (defined as two or more persons, often a young mother with children) that presents itself as in need of it. To the extent that families see this as a path to improved living conditions, "homelessness" is a new route to independent living and a private apartment.
The inflow of families arriving as homeless into transitional housing is running at about 11,000 a year. Kenneth Murphy, deputy commissioner in charge of crisis intervention services, estimates that about 7,000 of these families have never before entered the transitional housing system. The others have used it at least once, but been out for at least 30 days. The reasons for return range from unsafe living conditions to untenable domestic conditions, Mr. Murphy said.
About 70 percent were doubled up and more than 50 percent had never lived independently, he said.
A bone of legal contention is whether the city is free to exercise discretion on the admission of night-arrivals at an emergency assistance office into the transitional-housing system. The city's belief is that a certain number of these families ought instead to go to the welfare office in day hours for housing assistance.
ONCE a family is in transitional housing, the city is effectively obliged to find permanent housing for those who don't or can't find it on their own. In practice such families are put in a favorable position on the waiting line for permanent subsidized housing, for which other doubled-up families, though not technically homeless, are also waiting.
Hoping to ease the pressure on transitional housing, the Department of Social Services began a "diversion" program last year, trying through interviews by specially trained teams to see how many families might be helped to find housing without entering the city system. In 28 percent of the cases families who were seeking emergency shelter found it elsewhere.
There were 1,562 interviews by diversion teams between Jan. 14 and April 30. A total of 441 families avoided emergency housing, 167 going into vacant private apartments (where they might later receive a Section 8 rent certificate) and 274 going to doubled-up situations with friends or relatives.
To Steven Banks, coordinating attorney of the Homeless Family Rights Project of the Legal Aid Society, the city's standards for admission to emergency housing are too stringent. He argues that desperate families seeking shelter overnight should not be told to come back during the day for evaluation.
THOUGH disagreeing with Dinkins administration officials on that issue, he agreed that the Emergency Assistance for Relocation Program had already shown that use could be made of the growing number of private vacancies to meet the permanent housing needs of homeless families.
Twenty years ago there was a glut of low-cost housing; owners could hold back taxes for long periods and give low-quality shelter to very poor people without subsidies.
Today, shallow-subsidy programs, complementing the remarkable quantity of low-rent, high-subsidy new units that have been built as gut rehabilitations in older neighborhoods, are essential to meet the housing needs of the city's poor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Engel by his company's apartments in the Bronx with Olga Indelicato, the superintendent. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOMELESS PERSONS; LANDLORDS; RENTING AND LEASING; FEDERAL AID (US) HOMELESSNESS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); CITIES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



410 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Italianate Town House;
Banco di Napoli Buys Landmark

 BODY:
When bank executives look at mansions, they usually think "mortgage." Rarely do they look and think "headquarters."
But that was the reaction that Lucio Passarello, first vice president of Banco Di Napoli, had to 4 East 54th Street, the five-story, double-width town house that the industrialist William H. Moore had built as his primary residence almost a century ago. The 454-year-old Italian bank just agreed to buy the landmarked building as its permanent New York headquarters for $12.8 million. 
 "This building, with its Italianate architecture and history, would look right at home in Naples," Mr. Passarello said.
The price is higher, on a per-square-foot basis, than most town houses have commanded in the neighborhood. But Norman Livingston, the broker at James Felt Realty Investment Services who represented the bank, says such comparisons are specious.
"Those were vanilla boxes," he said. "This is a piece of art."
The mansion, designed by McKim, Mead & White, boasts 20-foot ceilings on the parlor floor and copious amounts of marble, woodwork and stained glass windows. The 36-foot-wide, 22,000-square-foot building, which was most recently used by the Government of Indonesia as an economic development center, has practical appeal as well: Its floorplate allows for a trading floor. And it comes with air rights that will allow the bank to build two more floors. Since they will be set far back from the street, the bank expects the Landmarks Preservation Commission will approve.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Banco Di Napoli will move into 4 East 54th Street. (Jack Manning/ The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANCO DI NAPOLI BANCO DI NAPOLI SPA (91%); JAMES FELT REALTY SERVICES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCO DI NAPOLI

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); APPROVALS (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



411 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

 BODY:

Parking Space in a Co-op
 
Question: I am a tenant in a Yonkers co-op. What are my rights regarding parking spots? The co-op owner in charge of parking spaces appears to be ignoring my request for a parking space. Do co-op owners have priorities when a parking spot becomes available? . . . Seymour Daks, Yonkers
 
Answer: Maybe. According to Stuart Saft, chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives, a renter who has a parking spot when a building is converted has the right to maintain the spot. But, he added, if a spot becomes available after the conversion it is up to the board of directors to decide how it will allocate the spaces, and it can do it any way it wants as long as it is done in a prudent, businesslike manner. 
 "They don't have to increase an amenity, but they can't decrease amenities," Mr. Saft said.
 
Modifying a Mortgage
 
uestion: I have a one-year adjustable mortgage with the Dime Savings Bank and have read in numerous financial magazines that banks can do a rate modification on an existing loan, and the cost of a rate modification is much less than for a refinancing. When I inquired about this with the Dime, I was told that the Dime will only refinance. This, however, is of no help to me since my property has declined in value.
How can I get a rate modification? If the Dime will not provide it, can I use another bank or mortgage broker? . . . John J. Malardi, Brooklyn
 
Answer: Probably not. According to Stan Greenstein, executive vice president with the Mortgage Clearing House in New Hyde Park, L.I., you can modify only with the bank that holds the mortgage or loan. With refinancing you can take your mortgage to a new bank or mortgage broker.
There are technical differences between a modification and a refinancing. With a modification, you are only changing the interest rate charged on the remaining balance of your loan. With a refinancing, you are essentially taking out a new loan to pay off your old one. Generally, you wouldn't seek a refinancing if a modification is available unless you have paid off a significant part of your mortgage and want to take cash out of the transaction.
Modifications are given by the banks to keep customers from taking their mortgages and loans to another bank for refinancing. Essentially, with a modification you pay only legal expenses, a new appraisal and possibly a new credit report, which probably won't cost more than $1,000.
Costs for a refinancing, on the other hand, can run as much as 3 to 4 percent of the mortgage. With refinancing, you will obtain a slightly lower interest rate than you will with modification, but in many cases the costs involved will negate any savings.
All this, though, may not apply to your situation, since your property has declined in value. In many cases where property has declined in value, your home may now be worth less than the value of the mortgage. In such cases, it is unlikely that any lender will modify or refinance your loan.
 
Who's in Charge?
 
Question: Could you please tell me which politicians and committees are involved with reforming the rent-regulation laws in New York City. . . . Robert R. Ginsky, Manhattan
 
Answer: The legislative committees in Albany that deal with the city's controversial rent-control and stabilization system are the Senate's Housing Committee, Cities Committee and Judiciary Committee.
In the Assembly, it's the Housing Committee, the Cities Committee, the Judiciary Committee and the Real Property Taxation Committee.
In the City Council, it's the Housing and Buildings Committee.
Of course, the Governor and the Mayor would also have a say in any changes, as would the state Department of Housing and Community Renewal in Albany, which administers the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HYDE PARK MARKETS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



412 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CITIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



413 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Blauvelt

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
"I'VE been here for 22 years and I still feel like a newcomer," said Eileen Larkin, a Councilwoman who represents the hamlet of Blauvelt in Rockland County. "There are so many people who have been here for generations. Unless you're a member of one of the founding families, you feel like you just arrived."
And Kimball Parker, whose family moved to Blauvelt in 1954, just before the construction boom of the 50's and 60's, shares that view. 
 As a child, he remembers, he played in cornfields, cabbage patches and sand pits.
""When the subdivisions started to go up around us," he said, "I felt like they were taking away my playground."
To most casual observers, today's Blauvelt, while a typical suburban community in many ways, retains much of its rural quality. That is a result, in large part, of strict zoning; a minimum size lot is one-third of an acre and many houses sit on one acre or more.
The community takes in part of the 600-acre Blauvelt State Park, which stretches over the top of Clausland Mountain with commanding views of Tappan Zee Bay, the Hudson Valley and Hackensack Valley.
"Of all the villages and hamlets in the Town of Orangetown, Blauvelt probably has the least turnover," said Frank A. Fornario, a part-time realtor and a county legislator for Orangetown. "The people who move to Blauvelt are often moving up from some other Rockland communities. They want the quality of life, and once they come in they tend to stay."
Many of the residents originally came from New York City, a migration that is still going on.
Barbara Melfi, her husband, Thomas, and their 11-year-old daughter moved in November from Brooklyn. "We really moved for our daughter's sake," said Ms. Melfi. "We heard the schools were good and we knew it was a beautiful area."
Mr. Melfi, a route salesman for an ice cream company who had worked in Rockland County, was familiar with Blauvelt.
One of the attractions of Rockland County is its low-cost housing, relative to Westchester County or Long Island. "We were looking in the $200,000 to $250,000 range," Ms. Melfi said. "A lot of the houses at that price weren't in great shape." It took a while, but they finally found a Cape Cod they liked.
Most of Blauvelt's homes are ranches, Cape Cods and colonials built in the 50's and 60's and priced in the mid-$200,000's, according to Mr. Fornario.
"You can still get a house for under $200,000, but it will probably need a lot of work," he said.
There is also a smattering of older homes, including the highest concentration of Colonial-era Dutch sandstone homes in Rockland County, which is what brought Shirley Pederson to Blauvelt from nearby Pearl River in 1957.
"I WAS brought up in New England and always lived in older houses," Ms. Pederson said.
She and her husband, Emil, bought a dilapidated sandstone house on South Western Highway that once belonged to Johannes J. Blauvelt, a descendant of one of the area's founding families. The house was built in 1755, with several wings added over the next 100 years. The Pedersons had to rebuild the interior, fitting in walls around the original beam work.
Up the road from the Pedersons is the Blauvelt Free Library, in a 1752 Dutch sandstone. It has 40,000 books and serves as a community center.
In the early 19th century, the center of village life was the Greenbush Presbyterian Church, founded in 1812. The present Gothic church, completed in 1883, is on Western Highway. Opposite it is Blauvelt's first one-room schoolhouse, built in 1809 and now headquarters of the Greenbush Little League.
According to the area's oldest history, a Dutchman named David De Vries bought 500 acres -- taking in parts of what are now Blauvelt, Tappan, Orangeburg, Piermont and part of northern New Jersey -- from the Tappan Indians around 1640. When the Dutch Governor tried to collect tribute from the Indians, a war broke out and De Vries fled to Holland.
In 1686, after the English took over, 16 families were granted land patents for De Vries's 500 acres by King James II. Founding families' names -- Van Houten, Haring, Conklin, Blauvelt and Tallman -- can still be found in local phone books.
The area was originally known as Greenbush but was changed to Blauveltville to honor Judge Cornelius I. Blauvelt, who helped finance the building of the New York and Lake Erie Railroad, which was completed in 1841, running from Piermont to Goshen through Blauvelt. It was said that when railroad workers first saw the beauty of the Blauvelt area they quit their jobs and settled there and turned to farming. Many of their descendants live in Blauvelt.
During World War II more than a million troops moved through Camp Shanks, just outside Blauvelt, in Orangeburg, before going overseas. After the war, the camp was turned into a veterans' housing project and later was subdivided for homes. Many of the former G.I.'s eventually settled in Blauvelt, which by then was well on its way to being a bedroom community for New York City.
This process was accelerated by the building of the Tappan Zee Bridge in 1955. Rockland County's population went from 81,276 in 1950 to 260,000 in 1975.
Blauvelt, which has 1,455 housing units, is still growing, although slowly.
That's by design, according to Town Supervisor Roger Pellegrini. "I feel we're at a crossroads now," he said. "Due to economics, development has slowed down, giving us time to think about how to hold on to our green space, which is really the charm of this area."
The town is spending $9 million to upgrade its sewer system. "Any more development would just tax the system further," Mr. Pellegrini said.
The only current developments are small-scale one-family projects like the Knolls, a subdivision of 16 houses averaging about 3,200 square feet with at least five bedrooms and three baths. They are priced in the $400,000's, according to Claire Merkley, sales manager for Merkley Brothers, a local builder. "Only two of the lots are unsold," she said.
The developer is planning a nearly identical eight-house subdivision.
BLAUVELT'S commercial development is concentrated along Route 303 and includes Bradley Corporate Park and several strip shopping centers with small shops and restaurants, including the Mongolian Garden and the Blauvelt Diner. Most other pursuits can be found a few miles away, such as movies in Pearl River and supermarkets in Orangeburg or Northvale, N.J. There is more extensive shopping at the Nanuet Mall, 15 miles away.
The South Orangetown Central School District has five schools, encompassing kindergarten through high school. Only the Cottage Lane School (grades 4 and 5) and the South Orangetown Middle School (6, 7, 8) are in Blauvelt.
At the Middle School is an Indian village, celebrating the lives and customs of the Tappan Indians, that was conceived and built by students, who also act as guides. The Middle School also offers foreign language study, including Spanish, French, Italian, German and Chinese.
The Tappan Zee High School in Orangeburg has a legal laboratory at which students assume all roles from attorney to court reporters in mock trials. Ninety-one percent of last June's graduating class went on to higher education.
Children may also attend the Roman Catholic, k-8, St. Catherine's School. The Middle School has the hamlet's only public swimming pool. Blauvelt also has a variety of ballfields and picnic areas.
Blauvelt residents can use the three lighted tennis courts and playing fields at the 43-acre Veterans Memorial Park in Orangeburg and the 18-hole Blue Hills Golf Course in Pearl River.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greenbush Presbyterian Church, top left, was built in 1883. The Knolls, right, is a new 16-house development. Jacob L. Blauvelt once owned the house, left, on Western Highway. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Gazetteer"
 
Population: 4,838 (1990 census).
 
Area: 3 square miles.
 
Median household income: $66,981 (1990 census).
 
Median price of one-family house: $230,000.
 
Tax on median priced house: $4,500.
 
Public school expenditure per pupil: $12,578.
 
Distance from midtown Manhattan: 29 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation to midtown: 1 hour 15 minutes on the Red and Tan bus to Port Authority bus terminal; $4.20 one way, $72.55 for 20-trip ticket.
 
Codes: Area 914, ZIP 10913.
 
Government: Town Supervisor (Roger Pellegrini, Democrat), elected to two-year term, and four council members, to four-year terms.
 
Drafted House: The Colonial-era Pederson home was an officers' club for Camp Shanks in World War II. Except for ceiling beams and a few other identifying characteristics, the Army gutted and rebuilt the interior. When the Pedersons found it in 1957 it had been vacant 11 years and "was just a big empty space," Shirley Pederson said. The couple put up adobe walls, exposing, when possible, original beams. In 1983 the house was designated a historic site by the Historical Society of Rockland County. It is one of eight stops on its annual historical house tour.
 
Map of Blauvelt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BLAUVELT (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); FAMILY (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); HOME PRICES (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%); SUBURBS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); STATE PARKS (66%); ICE CREAM (61%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



414 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
Philadelphia Trying to Channel Parking

BYLINE: By DAVID J. WALLACE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
City planners have turned the spotlight on the downtown parking situation with new regulations aimed at encouraging lots and garages in some areas and discouraging them elsewhere.
They have made it harder for developers to utilize a favorite method of drawing income from land being held for future development. This, in turn, may discourage the demolition of uneconomic old buildings specifically to create parking. 
 But they have also made it easier to establish parking facilities along the northern fringe of the business district, close to Interstate 95 and the Vine Street Expressway, in the hope that drivers will park there before plunging onward to narrow and congested streets in the heart of the business district.
Philadelphia had been relatively lenient on parking regulations. Developers have encountered no difficulty in utilizing land they have been unable to reuse for parking to get temporary income.
For example, Acme Markets spent six years looking for a buyer for its headquarters building, but chose to demolish the 11-story structure at 15th and Race Streets last year, leasing the site to the Philadelphia Parking Authority for a 125-space lot.
Simultaneously, the city's inventory of covered parking facilities has grown substantially with the building surge of the 80's. The city went from 43,800 covered spaces in 1980 to 60,500 spaces in 1990, a 40 percent increase. Since then, even with the decline of private office construction, at least 2,000 more spaces have been added. The increase gave added impetus to the planners' desire to cut down on open-land parking.
Under the new set of land planning regulations, lots and garages are "acceptable as an interim use" in the areas north of Market Street, the city's north-south dividing line, as far as Vine Street four blocks away. Interim use of a site must be approved by the planning commission before existing buildings can be demolished. No street-level lot may remain for more than five years and basement-level parking in new projects is not counted as developed floor space.
But no street-level lots are allowed at all south of Chestnut Street -- one block south of Market Street -- for three blocks to Spruce Street, the boundary of the city's busiest and most historic and congested business and residential area. Nor is any new garage, except with special approval, which is considered unlikely in the district.
Part of the goal is to deter developers from razing the two- and three- story brick buildings common in the area, said Richard Lombardo, chief of project planning in the Planning Department.
In the Vine-Callowhill Streets area, north of downtown but close to Interstate 95, parking lots and garages are encouraged by excluding parking space from the bulk restrictions of the zoning envelope.
"The goal of the regulations," Mr. Lombardo said, "was to protect the smaller-scale commercial development south of Chestnut Street that was built in the 1920's and 30's, before every building needed parking."
"Most of the city's business core is in an area where parking lots are permitted," he said.
The Philadelphia actions call attention to the problem of drawing revenue from land intended for redevelopment during sometimes extremely long periods of market weakness.
As air-pollution regulations and traffic problems have curbed parking lots, developers have often tried to lease land for flea markets or low-cost tennis bubbles as interim uses. Even local gardens have sprouted on land held for development.
"A lot of downtowns have a tremendous amount of space devoted to suface parking, and it may be a transitionary phase," said Bob Dunphy, senior research director of the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit land development research organization. "Parking is the Rodney Dangerfield of transportation -- it gets no respect, but it's critical to development."
That transition may take years or decades. One of Philadelphia's prime development spots, at Broad and Locust Streets across from the Academy of Music, was vacant for more than 20 years until a hotel opened on the site in 1983. When it was vacant it was used as surface parking.
The parking industry tried last year to get the Philadelphia Planning Commission to accept the principle that all new buildings should have on-site parking. That was rejected because of the size of the existing supply.
But in projects already planned but not built, still more on-site parking is to be produced. Hahnemann University Hospital will build an 800-space garage with room for its data center on the now vacant former site of the Philadelphia Athletic Club at Vine and Broad Streets near the downtown business core.
On Market at 19th Street, the Philadelphia office of the Linpro Corporation plans to build a second office tower to complement one completed four years ago, and a new parking garage to go with it. So far the, 45-story, 761,000-square-foot project has no garage.
Linpro has a hole in the ground at 20th and Market that was to have become an underground parking garage. It has asked for and been given a variance to fill it in as interim street-level parking lot.
The decision by Philadelphia's largest private parking company, Parkway Corporation, to expand its surface lot at 15th and Spruce Streets last year shows that site development, and new interim parking space, has proceeded even when office development has slackened.
Joseph S. Zuritsky, Parkway's president, said it spent more than $925,000 to acquire and demolish two buildings adjacent to the lot, in an area of office and theater uses and heavy residential traffic. By expanding its holdings from Spruce to Latimer Street, Parkway has made the site more attractive for future commercial construction, Mr. Zuritsky said.
The company also sees itself as a developer. In 1986, it announced plans for 300,000 square feet of residential apartments atop a garage and retail building on Walnut Street between Eighth and Ninth Streets. The garage and shops were completed but no schedule has been disclosed for the towers.
Mr. Zuritsky would give no occupancy data about the 500 spaces that Parkway owned or operated downtown. He said the industry overall had suffered during the recession because of job and shopping cutbacks, home-based telecommuters and people shifting to mass transit.
But Andrew Lenton of the planning commission said that a survey in 1990 showed that parking occupancy rates averaged 79 percent and that the rate probably had dropped since then.
According to Mr. Lenton's survey, downtown parking occupancy rates rose from 68 percent in 1980 to 79 percent in 1990. More striking was the increase in the all-day price -- from an average of $4.69 in 1980 to $8.70 in 1990.
Mr. Lombardo said the changes were a result of a comprehensive plan to revise restrictions created eight or nine years ago by a previous City Council that were inconsistent and required variances for most commercial projects outside the business district.
One element of the current plan, he said, requires landscaped screening on parking-loot frontage along major streets.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Square Industrial Garage at Seventh and Market Streets in Philadelphia, in a zone where street-level parking lots are prohibited. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA PARKING AUTHORITY INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ZONING (78%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



415 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning With Jim Wallwork

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
IT was 8 o'clock on a recent Wednesday morning, and a tall, gray-haired, round-shouldered man was shaking hands with men and women in the ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel in Hasbrouck Heights.
"Hi, I'm Jim Wallwork, running for governor," he said as he greeted members of the Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey who had gathered to meet three Republicans vying for the party's nomination for governor in the June 8 primary. 
 Mr. Wallwork, a former State Senator from Essex County, started his 12-hour campaign day by arriving at the breakfast meeting a half-hour ahead of his rivals, Cary Edwards and Christine Todd Whitman, and was chatting with everyone who would stand still long enough to listen.
When the speechmaking started at about 8:35, Mr. Wallwork was the first to take the podium, wasting no time telling the 150 business executives why he was there. "I'm running for governor because I want to get government off people's backs and out of their wallets," Mr. Wallwork said. "I, like you, believe in less taxes, less spending and less government."
The essence of the speeches made by all three candidates that morning would be repeated at other events throughout the day. Mr. Edwards would talk of his experience in government as Attorney General and counsel to Gov. Thomas H. Kean as making him the most qualified person to run against Gov. Jim Florio in November.
Mrs. Whitman would talk about her "economic blueprint" as being the best bet for re-energizing the state's economy.
And Mr. Wallwork would talk about his years in the Legislature, his career in the military and his acumen in the world of business as making him the person most capable of leading the state toward the 21st century.
"I'm a conservative businessman," Mr. Wallwork said in a refrain that he would repeat many times in the day. "I know what it is to roll up my sleeves and go to work every day. I understand how important it is to provide good jobs for the working men and women of New Jersey."
During his speech, Mr. Wallwork described the centerpiece of his political platform: a vow to "roll back every dime of Governor Florio's tax increase" by trimming $2.2 billion from the state budget over the next four years.
In the question-and-answer period after the candidates' introductory remarks, Mr. Wallwork explained that he would accomplish his goal by cutting the state budget by 4 percent a year in each of the next four years. He will do that, he said, by streamlining state government.
 
'You Need a Businessman'
 "You need a businessman who has operated a business and who will run the state government like a business," he said.
By 10 o'clock the meeting was over, and Mr. Edwards and Mrs. Whitman had headed off to other campaign stops. Mr. Wallwork retreated to the hotel restaurant to be interviewed for a cable television show.
While the camera operator prepared for the taping, Mr. Wallwork chatted with Julie Bidello, a television reporter for Vision Cable in Palisades Park. In what appeared to be a subtle shift in roles, however, Mr. Wallwork asked a steady stream of questions of his interviewer.
 
A Campaigner's Greetings
 Though he appeared uncomfortable sitting well forward in his chair, Mr. Wallwork seemed genuinely engaged in his conversation with Mrs. Bidello. He touched on many of the same points he had addressed at the breakfast meeting.
After the interview, Mr. Wallwork headed out of the hotel, stopping to shake hands with employees and patrons he passed on the way.
"Hi," he would say to each in their turn. "I'm Jim Wallwork, running for governor."
James L. Wallwork, 62 years old, was born in Belleville, where he lived until he was 8 and his family moved to Montclair. He attended the Montclair public schools and graduated from Montclair High School in June 1948.
"Seven days later I was up in West Point as a cadet," he said, sitting in his shirtsleeves in the back of the 1993 station wagon he uses for his campaign. He was heading toward his next campaign stop, in Aberdeen.
After graduating from West Point in 1952, he was stationed in Germany as company commander of a combat engineering group. After completing his tour of duty, he served in the National Guard with the rank of major.
Courteous and slightly formal in manner, Mr. Wallwork wears his military experience like a badge, attributing his success in business to his West Point training.
"It teaches you discipline," he said. "It teaches you to concentrate on your mission."
 
Start in the Legislature
 Stopping for coffee at a service area on the Garden State Parkway in Essex County, Mr. Wallwork talked of his successful election to the State Assembly in 1963. It was at the same time that he met Lark Lataner, who was writing an article about him for a magazine. They have been married for 28 years and have a daughter, Lyric Wallwork Winik, who lives in Maryland.
In 1967 Mr. Wallwork was elected to the State Senate, where he served until 1981.
He said that during his 16 years in the Legislature, he was guided in large part by the military code of honor drilled into him as a cadet at West Point.
"You don't lie; you don't cheat; you don't steal," he said. "You are what you are 24 hours a day."
 
Recognized by Residents
 During the brief stop at the parkway service station, two residents of the area recognized Mr. Wallwork and stopped to say hello. The first, Daniel Ward, knew the candidate from his days as the owner of Wallwork Brothers Inc., a West Caldwell-based company that he sold in 1990.
"How do I make a contribution to the campaign?" Mr. Ward said, shaking Mr. Wallwork's hand. The candidate was quick to hand him a brochure containing the address and telephone number of his campaign headquarters in Short Hills.
A few minutes later, Nicholas Caputo of Rochelle Park approached Mr. Wallwork and said, "I campaigned for you way, way back."
Mr. Wallwork shook his hand and gave him a brochure. "Did you know I'm running for governor?" he asked.
Mr. Caputo replied: "I know. And I'm voting for you."
 
Another Early Arrival
 At 11:30 Mr. Wallwork arrived at the Garden Manor in Aberdeen for a "candidates' forum" sponsored by the Matawan Rotary Club. Again, he was a half-hour ahead of his opponents and spent the time shaking hands with waiters, waitresses and Rotarians.
After a brief interview with a reporter for a local newspaper, Mr. Wallwork joined Mr. Edwards and Mrs. Whitman on the dais. When it was his turn to speak, he returned to the theme of using his legislative experience and business savvy to streamline government.
"I know the nuts and bolts of state government," he said. "And I would bring business techniques to the office of governor."
Mr. Wallwork also described other changes he would make, including establishing a "free market" for automobile insurance in which competition would encourage lower premiums, and requiring a 60 percent "supermajority" of legislators to pass any tax increases.
In addition, he said, he would push for legislation that would establish 12-year term limitations on all state, county and municipal offices, and would favor a prohibition against "double-dippers" -- people who hold two public offices at the same time.
 
'Golden Political Trough'
 "The politicians have been feeding at the golden political trough for far too long," he said. "I don't think it's fair and I don't think it's proper."
Later, Mr. Wallwork was approached by a man who neatly illustrated the capricious nature of primary election politics.
"If you're successful, we're behind you," said Carmen Stoppiello, the Mayor of Union Beach and a Monmouth County Freeholder, explaining that if Mr. Wallwork won the primary, he would support him against Mr. Florio. Mr. Stoppiello's preference in the primary, however, was displayed on his chest in the form of a Whitman badge.
At 1:55 Mr. Wallwork was back in his station wagon, heading to Cedar Knolls for an interview with ABC News and with radio station WMTR. Walking in the front door of the WMTR studio, Mr. Wallwork introduced himself to the receptionist and then, continuing down a corridor, introduced himself to a man who was painting the hallway.
"Hi, I'm Jim Wallwork, running for governor," he said, shaking the man's paint-stained hand.
"Everyone's important," Mr. Wallwork said later.
 
TV and Radio Interviews
 Before the radio interview began, Mr. Wallwork was interviewed by Pat Dawson for "The ABC Evening News." Mr. Dawson asked him what prompted him to enter the race for governor.
Mr. Wallwork said he first thought about running when he heard that both Mr. Edwards and Mrs. Whitman had voluntarily disclosed that they had employed illegal aliens. He talked to his wife about it, he said, "slept on it" for a night, and then the next morning decided to run.
"I said to my wife, 'Look, I want to be a player; I'm not going to sit on the sidelines and complain,' " Mr. Wallwork said.
After the television interview, Mr. Wallwork went into a recording studio to tape an interview for the WMTR radio program "Insight." Bob Neil, the program host, asked Mr. Wallwork what distinguished him from the other candidates.
"Frankly, Mrs. Whitman doesn't know business," he said. And of Mr. Edwards he said: "Cary is really a lawyer. He never ran a business. I think there's no substitute for 25 years of business experience."
During the interview Mr. Wallwork also explained that he supports initiative and referendum, whereby voters can initiate legislation through the voting booth, and privatization of state services like the Division of Motor Vehicles and the Department of Transportation.
Mr. Wallwork ended the interview on a confident note.
"It's going to be a close race between Florio and me," he said. "We're going to give the citizens of New Jersey a clear choice."
 
A Dinner Before a Dinner
 At 4:15 Mr. Wallwork, who had been on the go since 5:30 in the morning, returned to his home in Far Hills to have a quiet dinner with his wife.
Later that evening, Mr. and Mrs. Wallwork drove to the Morris County Golf Club to for a dinner meeting with the New Jersey Society of Surgeons.
Mr. Wallwork drew applause from the group when he told them he would appoint a practicing or teaching New Jersey physician as health commissioner. He also pledged that he would appoint an insurance commissioner who would focus on limiting medical malpractice premiums and who would curb reviews of physicians' health-care decisions by insurance companies.
"You all know of the wasted hundreds of hours doctors spend explaining to an unqualified reviewer why a patient stayed in a hospital eight days instead of seven or why one medication was selected rather than another," he said.
 
The 'Pizazz' Factor
 Dr. Adolph Wichman of Boonton, one of those in attendance, told a colleague: "I'll vote for the guy. As far as I'm concerned, he hit all the issues on the nose."
Dr. Wichman had one criticism of Mr. Wallwork, however. "His style as a politician is a bit lacking," he said. "I'd like to see him have a little more pizazz."
In fact, throughout the day Mr. Wallwork was the only one of the candidates who relied extensively on written notes for his speeches. Except when answering questions extemporaneously, he looked out at the audience only occasionally. He delivered his prepared speeches in a tone bereft of variation.
"I'm not a showman; I'm a businessman," he said when told of Dr. Wichman's observation about his lack of "pizazz."
"I think that as I move down the campaign trail, I'll probably improve my style," Mr. Wallwork said at the end of a grueling 12-hour day of campaigning. "But right now I'm concentrating on the issues."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In one day, Jim Wallwork, top, taped a television interview at radio station WMTR, stopped on the Garden State Parkway and was greeted by Donald Ward, left, a supporter, and spoke with members of the New Jersey Society of Surgeons. (Photographs by Chet Gordon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); MEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); LAWYERS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; WALLWORK, JIM MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



416 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2922 words

HEADLINE: The Big Bang That Never Was

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
NEARLY a decade ago, when Japanese manufacturers were looking invincible and huge trade surpluses were starting to pile up here, the Government sought to place Japan at the forefront of a new realm: international finance. Tokyo declared that its financial markets would be thrown open, making this the third leg of the global order, along with London and New York.
The Government promised a step-by-step freeing of Japan's minutely regulated markets. The final blow to the old system -- the rough equivalent of London's "Big Bang" in 1986 -- was to have come last month, when the barriers preventing the many kinds of banks and securities houses here from competing with each other were to be lifted. 
 But if Tokyo had its own version of the Big Bang, hardly anyone heard it. Numerous impediments were left in place, and in some cases the Government even appears to be backpedaling on its commitment to eliminate its interference in the country's coddled financial system.
Many Japanese as well as foreign bankers, brokers and other experts are shaking their heads in disappointment, wondering how the country with the largest pool of investment capital, the largest banks and securities houses and the second-largest stock market has remained so defiantly out of step with international trends toward financial liberalization. How, they ask, can a country that boasts the most technologically advanced manufacturers retain a cumbersome financial system that is a throwback?
The heart of the problem, experts say, is that the Government cannot let go. It started down the road to deregulation, then seized on the stock market crash and a series of scandals to reassert itself. The Finance Ministry admits, without apology, that the philosophical winds have shifted.
"In my personal opinion, the age of laissez-faire policy is over," said Eisuke Sakakibara, a senior official in the International Finance Bureau. "In the mid-1980's, this Reagan-Thatcher deregulatory movement was in full swing and this affected the mentality of the authorities here as well. We did not want the Tokyo markets to lag behind other markets."
He added that Tokyo would eliminate unnecessary regulations when appropriate -- but only on its own terms.
 
Finding a New Base
 The reversal has irritated foreign banks and securities houses trying to make headway in Japan. No one is talking about leaving Tokyo, but many companies -- from CS First Boston to Merrill Lynch and the Bank of America -- have already moved their Asian headquarters to Hong Kong, which is a smaller but significantly freer market.
But experts say the shift has a deeper significance as well. Financial liberalization touches on the more fundamental issues of the openness and fairness of Japan's economy. The debate over protectionism has tended to focus on computer chips, construction contracts, rice and the like. But some Japanese and foreign experts say the reluctance to open Japan's financial system and turn it into "the London of Asia," as had been promised, raises questions about whether foreigners, be they financial institutions or manufacturers, will ever be able to compete on equal terms with the Japanese.
This is one reason Lawrence E. Summers, the Undersecretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, said in his confirmation hearing in March that the Clinton Administration was targeting the removal of financial barriers in Japan as a major policy goal. Mr. Summers commented, as other experts have, that these regulations could provide Japanese manufacturers with an unfair advantage by giving them access to capital at cheaper rates than their foreign rivals could get.
To be sure, the Government has taken some important steps toward opening the financial markets. It has permitted foreign brokers to join the Tokyo Stock Exchange, opened the Government bond market to foreign securities houses, created a stock index and bond futures market and freed banks to set interest rates on deposits.
But that has made the signs of heavier regulation even more glaring, many here say. Under the changes that took place on April 1, for instance, only a few Japanese banks were permitted to underwrite bonds, but no banks may trade bonds or deal in equities.
The Finance Ministry has permitted tough new restrictions on stock-index futures. These restrictions, and proposals for more, loom as a possible trade issue with the United States, since dealing in stock index futures is a major source of profits for American brokerage houses here.
The corporate bond market remains underdeveloped because of regulations that make it expensive to issue such bonds and almost impossible to trade them. Managing pension-fund money is still mostly closed to newcomers, domestic or foreign.
 
Calling the Shots
 With the stock market in the midst of a long slump, the ministry decreed nearly two years ago a virtual halt to new public issues of stock, rather than allowing investors to decide whether they wanted to buy. There were three new offerings of shares last year, which raised the equivalent of $36 million, compared with 227 offerings that raised $52 billion in 1989. And the Government intervened in the shaky stock market last fall. Institutions were pressured not to sell shares and Government-controlled pension funds have bought more than $25 billion of stocks to prop up prices.
"They had a glimpse of an open market, and then they flinched," said John S. Wadsworth Jr., formerly the president of Morgan Stanley's Japan operations who has moved his base to Hong Kong, as head of the newly formed Morgan Stanley (Asia). "They didn't like what they saw."
Added Maynard Toll, who runs CS First Boston in Japan, "In our business we're used to making decisions based on the economic facts placed in front of you. Then you come to this place and all that is thrown into question. One wave of the Government wand can change anything. It's very frustrating."
Major banks and securities houses are reassessing Tokyo's role as a financial hub for another reason: Japanese institutions have lost their taste for international investments.
Japanese investors sent abroad hundreds of billions of dollars during the 1980's, buying everything from huge sums of Treasury bonds to Rockefeller Center and Pebble Beach Country Club -- and giving lots of business to foreign banks and brokers in the process. But they have grown surprisingly stingy in recent years. Japan made $28 billion in long-term investments abroad last year, compared with $136 billion in 1987.
That shift, along with the outrageous level of costs here, has made business even tougher.
"A lot of companies should consider whether to open up in Hong Kong rather than in Tokyo," said Jackson Tai, head of Asia operations for J. P. Morgan & Company. "The growth rates are far more compelling in the rest of Asia."
 
Investor Indifference
 But more than just financial institutions are losing their enthusiasm for Japan. Foreign companies seeking to float bonds or find Japanese buyers for their shares are giving up because of the complex regulatory rules, the expense and the indifference of investors.
Ten foreign companies have withdrawn their listings on the Tokyo Stock Exchange because of the lack of interest by Japanese investors. Among them: General Motors, Philips, Kmart and Avon.
"In terms of supplying funds to the world, this is a very important market; in fact, it is increasing in importance," said Shoichi Royama, dean of the economics department at Osaka University. "The problem is that Tokyo is not as liquid or as advanced as New York or London. Tokyo is definitely behind, farther behind than we expected it would be by this time."
Such concern amounts to a basic reassessment of the role Japan will play in the international markets and of whether the Finance Ministry can ever really loosen its grip.
"The Ministry of Finance believes the financial business is different from any other industry," said Yoshihiko Miyauchi, president of the Orix Corporation, Japan's largest leasing and financial company. "They spoke of liberalization, but the philosophy behind that was always different from what you mean by a free-market system. They believe that the critical part of financial management should not be left to the market. It was just a matter of degree, of loosening control a small amount."
The mixed success of financial liberalization has set off a lively debate about what Japan gains, or loses, from protecting its financial markets. Classical economists say Japan is the loser, arguing that its markets are less efficient at providing capital to the most able companies.
 
A Big Advantage
 But other economists contend that the system gives Japanese industries a big advantage over their foreign competitors, not only providing them with capital at lower rates but with fewer demands for quick returns, effectively subsidizing their expansion into global markets.
"The strong competitiveness of Japanese companies in world markets can be largely attributed to their low cost of capital -- which was significantly lower than the cost of capital for American companies," wrote Masasuke Ide of the Nomura Research Institute in a report last year.
The pressure for change came from the United States, which fought with Japan until an agreement was reached in early 1984 for the Finance Ministry to open Japan's markets. Soon after, the authorities made a virtue of a necessity, embracing financial liberalization.
"The issue of deregulation and internationalization of the Tokyo market can now be considered to have entered a new stage, moving from a time of catching up with the leading markets to unification with these markets," Tomomitsu Oba, a former vice minister of finance, wrote in an upbeat essay six years ago.
But the stock market crash, starting in 1990, and then the financial scandals here made regulators reconsider and cast a new light on the basic nature of the Japanese system.
"The basic point is simple," said Takaaki Wakasugi, a professor of finance at Tokyo University. "In the late 1980's the Tokyo market grew so big, but it was just a matter of size, not quality. We were still second or third class in terms of real financial capability. People here said we were world class based on this mistaken look just at our size."
But that size was hit hard. From the stock market's peak at the end of 1989, to its bottom, last August, it lost 60 percent of its value, wiping out more than $3 trillion from portfolios. And a sharp decline in land prices left banks holding tens of billions of dollars in overdue loans, creating a sense of crisis.
"The collapse of the bubble economy has had some impact on the Ministry of Finance, there's no question about that," Mr. Sakakibara conceded. "But it's true in New York and London, too. There has been some rethinking of deregulation, some appreciation of the fact that proper supervision must accompany deregulation. I want to stress that this is not only a Japanese phenomenon."
Whether it is or not, most financial experts here agree that Japan has not come close to living up to some of its promises. The Quick Research Institute here reported in a study that of 25 financial products routinely available in New York and London, only 12 are available in Japan. There are still no individual stock options, junk bonds, floating-rate notes or medium-term notes, for instance.
"An individual Japanese has fewer tools to manage his money here than in any other developed country," said James M. Walsh, head of Prudential Securities here.
The Big Four securities houses -- Nomura, Daiwa, Nikko and Yamaichi -- underwrite more than 70 percent of the securities issued in Japan, making them a sort of cartel, foreign firms complain. Meanwhile, the amount of loans here by foreign banks has dropped to 9 trillion yen as of March 31, compared with 12 trillion yen two years earlier, another indication of the sour atmosphere.
 
Longer Timetable
 Discontent is clear in a recent survey of foreign banks and securities houses by the Japan Center for International Finance. In a survey four years ago, the foreign institutions predicted that Tokyo would overtake London as a center for international financial dealings within five years. But this time the foreign institutions said Tokyo had no hope of catching up within the next five years.
"You have an ironic situation," said Takuma Takahashi, an economist at the Nomura Research Institute and author of a book on the rise and fall of international financial centers. "Eastern Europe is moving finally toward a market economy, but in Japan it's been the opposite. There's more Government control."
And it is not just the Government that is shifting gears. Other Japanese institutions have been reassessing what they got out of the rush to internationalize and whether an open financial system is worth the risks.
"We're very fond of that word, internationalization, but we're wondering what it really means," said Hisao Kobayashi, managing director at the Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, the world's largest commercial bank. "It actually helped the growth of the Japanese economy, and we should not neglect that fact. But the environment has changed and so the system has changed."
 
 
 
THE OSAKA AFFAIR: TOKYO GETS TOUGH
 OSAKA
This city in western Japan was once the heart of the country's commercial life, but it has slipped deeper and deeper into Tokyo's shadow in recent decades. It was thus regarded here as a coup when the sleepy Osaka Stock Exchange recaptured some of its lost glory by becoming the center for trading stock index futures contracts.
The popularity of the Nikkei index future took the Tokyo establishment by surprise after its introduction in 1988, and became particularly nettlesome when it turned into a moneymaker for foreign securities houses. Firms like Morgan Stanley, Salomon Brothers and Goldman Sachs used the index futures to conduct program trading and other strategies that Japanese firms had not learned.
So Tokyo flexed its muscles, citing complaints from the Tokyo Stock Exchange that the Nikkei futures hastened the stock decline after 1990. A stock index future permits an investor to bet on the movement of the broad market, based on a basket of many stocks, rather than on individual stocks.
Since the decline, the authorities have imposed measures to quash futures trading, including increasing the margin, or downpayment, an investor must make when purchasing a futures contract to 30 percent of the value, from 9 percent in 1988. The pace of change in futures prices has been slowed so much that when the stock market grows volatile, the futures market effectively shuts down.
"The problem is quite political," said Shoichi Royama, dean of the economics department at Osaka University. "They're jealous of the success of the Osaka market."
Meanwhile, one beneficiary of the clampdown has been the Singapore International Monetary Exchange, or Simex, which also trades a Nikkei stock index future.
While average daily trading volume on the Osaka exchange hit a peak in 1991, and then tailed off when the restrictions were put in place, volume has picked up in Singapore, where 16,071 contracts were traded on average each day in the first three months of this year, compared with 3,045 contracts a day in 1991.
The Japanese authorities failed to persuade Simex to adopt similar restrictions. "They expected us to adopt the same standards, which were intended mainly to depress interest in futures," said Ang Swee Tian, president of Simex. "I think we would find it very hard to agree to that."
The irony, said Mr. Royama, is that the stock index futures have been leading the Tokyo market's rebound.

 
 
THE FOREIGNERS CUT BACK
 WITH the financial atmosphere getting tougher in Japan, many foreign banks and brokers have responded with their first cuts here and have even moved some operations out of Japan.
Salomon Brothers Asia, for instance, had a staff of 600 at its peak a couple of years ago, but now is trying to whittle that to 510. Prudential Securities has reduced its staff to 90 from 275 three years ago, and has closed one of its two branches. Merrill Lynch Japan has said it remains committed to Japan, but it is closing three of its six retail branches in the country and the head of its Asian operations has moved to Hong Kong from Tokyo.
County Natwest Securities, an arm of Britain's National Westminster Bank, sold its Tokyo Stock Exchange membership recently, the first foreign firm here to do so. Foreign brokers, permitted to join the exchange only since 1986, were clamoring for seats a few years ago.
Disappointment over the pace at which the financial markets are opening here is not the only problem cited. The enormous costs of doing business in Japan -- commercial rents are astronomical despite a recent property market slump, and senior foreign executives routinely live in homes that rent for $15,000 to $60,000 a month -- were ignored when the markets were perceived to be opening. But now those costs are regarded as a burden.
"The expense level in Tokyo is just too high, and being in Hong Kong puts us closer to our big thrust into China," said Larry Greenberg, formerly the head of the Japanese operations of the Bank of America and now the Hong Kong-based head of Asian commercial banking. "When you're in Hong Kong you're a part of everything that's happening in this part of the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Only 12 of 25 financial products available in New York and London are sold in Japan. (Ashley Ashwood/Financial Times) (pg. 6)
 
Drawing (pg. 1)
 
Graph: "The Bubble Bursts," tracks share of world stock market capitalization for the United States and Japan at the end of each year, 1980-March 1993 (Source: Kemper Financial Services, Morgan Stanley Capital International) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



417 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Busting the American Dream

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
That giant sucking sound you hear is the audio portion of Bill Clinton's popularity going south. Maybe the Balkans are in flames, the recovery is guttering out and Mr. Clinton's chief of staff needs to start carding his new hires. But those are not the only reasons Mr. Clinton's ratings are going phttt! He is taking the hit for business-as-usual, filibustering Washington, which seems not to have noticed that many Americans feel the country is adrift and that they think their feelings, like the Velveteen Rabbit, are really real.
As Mr. Clinton looks for ways to regain his Administration's composure, he could start by sending several cartons of Katherine S. Newman's new book, "Declining Fortunes: The Withering of the American Dream" (Basic Books), over to the Hill and down to the lobbyists on K Street. Ms. Newman, an anthropologist, spent many months talking with 60 or so intergenerational families in a suburban New Jersey town she calls "Pleasanton," both to disguise its identity and to indicate that it stands in for communities across the country. She learned that high anxiety about the future has become the permanent existential state of young and youngish suburban middle-class Americans. 
 Ms. Newman's central finding is no longer unfamiliar: That bulging demographic cohort born from 1946 to 1964, the baby boom, is likely to be the first American generation that will not live as well as its parents. What Ms. Newman does, sympathetically and in clear nonacademic prose, is to put texture to what could be viewed as petty fears and frustrations. She fulfills one of the prime anthropological directives: to explore the cultural terrain between belief and behavior, image and reality, what people say they believe and what they actually do.
At the root of the baby boomers' malaise, Ms. Newman argues, is the mythology surrounding their parents' generation: children of the Great Depression whose lives were touched directly or indirectly by World War II. They came home from war, bunked with their parents until Mr. Levitt built what would become the suburbs, put on their gray flannel suits or maternity dresses and went to work or stayed home, taking Miltown and having the next generation. They were, in their own view, hard workers who endured hard times, sacrificed and, because of that, ultimately prospered.
There is truth to that version of events, but through nothing more profound than being born at the propitious time. The World War II generation also was the primary beneficiary of the public works projects of the Depression, the huge postwar economic expansion and a mad explosion of real estate values. In recounting their stories, Ms. Newman said during a recent interview at Columbia University, her academic home, "people subtract large factors."
As Ms. Newman points out, two of the critical elements of the American dream, an education and a home, were made possible for people who would have had neither without Government subsidies, in the form of the G.I. Bill and low-interest mortgages. The rise in real estate values turned many relatively modest homes into equity worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. Houses bought with low-interest mortgages were the basis of social mobility and affluence -- and, now, the postwar generation's extremely comfortable retirement, thank you very much. "On virtually all counts," Ms. Newman writes, "it was better to have reached adulthood by the early 1950's than at almost anytime afterward."
The boomers, by contrast, don't quite know what hit them. "They want to know why the gravy train stopped before it reached them," Ms. Newman said.
The older generation is sympathetic enough to recognize that their grown children's struggles are real and that the necessities of life like housing and transportation are more expensive than they used to be. But they don't quite get why hard work doesn't do for the children what it did for them, and many of them think their kids are spoiled. "Our children go on vacation several times a year," one parent tells Ms. Newman. "We didn't go on any vacation for about 10 years after we were married. . . . We were never poor or hungry, but we didn't have all the things that our children take for granted." Defer a vacation, forgo a night out. Prosperity will come.
Boomers may have a collective attitude problem -- though they are by no means a monolithic generation -- but that's hardly the real trouble. The generation is simply too big for the opportunities available to it: too many boomers chasing too few jobs, schools and livable neighborhoods and watching the country's infrastructure decay.
Somewhat incredibly, given the activism of at least the older boomers there has been little anger or political reaction against the parental generation, which by all accounts is the single most powerful interest group in the country. Boomers may be relatively quiet because they know the United States is a rich country and that in many basic ways they are fortunate.
Knowing they are better off than the starving masses of the childhood dinner table does not necessarily lessen their sense of betrayal and unease. "They know something is deeply wrong," Ms. Newman said. "They would like to think Clinton can fix it." But, she added, "They don't believe in the halcyon days."
 
 
 
'SPEAK TO THE ISSUES THAT MATTER'
 Katherine S. Newman violates anthropological norms. She does her research not abroad but in the suburbs, where half the American population lives. In a field notorious for celebrating the ethereal, she thinks it's important to "speak to issues that matter in our society."
The middle class matters hugely in this country, and Ms. Newman is well on her way to becoming its pre-eminent chronicler. "I look through anthropological eyes at the impact broad economic trends have on the lives of ordinary people," she said. Her earlier book, "Falling From Grace: The Experience of Downward Mobility in the American Middle Class," detailed the lives and tough times of unemployed high-wage blue- and white-collar workers. Like much of "Declining Fortunes," "Falling From Grace" is about individuals coping with forces beyond their control. Despite their best efforts, the workers are unable to retain what they have achieved.
Ms. Newman is a sympathetic observer, but, based on the intractability of the current downturn, not an optimistic one: "I'm without much confidence that this is temporary."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katherine S. Newman, the author of a new book on middle-class malaise. (Eddie Hausner/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BABY BOOMERS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); FILIBUSTER (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); MYTHOLOGY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); FAMILY (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY; NEWMAN, KATHERINE S HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



418 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: T.W.A.'s Bumpy Flight Back

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Whatever the fate of Trans World Airlines, this much is certain: There is no lack of can-do enthusiasm among its employees for reviving the bankrupt carrier, once ranked among the world's best.
Pilots dipped into their wallets to buy billboard advertisements, and are chatting up the airline to travel agents long disenchanted with it. Workers bought sweatshirts proclaiming, "We're Comin' Back." In Kansas City, Mo., they posted a sign outside an overhaul base that reads, 
 "It's ours now, let's work smarter."
Add a slew of strategy shifts, and the airline's top managers are talking about a rebound for their hobbled airline, particularly after its revenue per passenger jumped 15 percent in the first quarter, while the industry overall stood roughly flat.
"We have a classic turnaround under way," said Glenn R. Zander. He and Robin Wilson were appointed by T.W.A.'s creditors and workers to manage the airline after Carl C. Icahn ceded control in January.
Early signs of their performance will come clearer in the next few days, when the airline is expected to announce its first-quarter results.
But thus far, talk of a turnaround has met with skepticism; many analysts doubt that T.W.A. will survive another year. "They have an impossible task ahead of them," said Kevin C. Murphy, airlines analyst at Morgan Stanley & Company.
Indeed, if and when the carrier emerges from bankruptcy this summer, it will have a thin cash cushion -- roughly $200 million -- leaving it in a fragile position should the industry wage a grueling fare war or should fuel prices spike. Neither is expected, but neither can be ruled out. And T.W.A. remains weighed down by $1 billion in debt, although it has shed an equal amount and cut its debt service payments by more than a third.
Furthermore, many analysts consider T.W.A.'s projections through 1997, which assume a 5 percent annual growth rate, optimistic. The company, for example, assumes the price of jet fuel will rise just 2.5 cents a gallon over five years.
"T.W.A. has given itself the benefit of every assumption, but life is often not as charitable as that," said Phillip Brannon, a high-yield bond analyst at Mabon Securities. The value of T.W.A. bonds has fluctuated in recent months, but in general reflects "a limited measure of confidence" in the carrier, he added. For example, $265.1 million worth of 17.25 percent senior subordinated notes issued in 1988 have traded between $22 and $26 since January, and were trading at $26 late Friday.
Other challenges include T.W.A.'s route structure, focused on its hubs in St. Louis, New York's Kennedy Airport and Atlanta, which pit it against tough competitors. Its list of international destinations is considered fair, but sorely lacking after Mr. Icahn sold off such key routes as the highly prized J.F.K.-to-Heathrow route.
A poor public image, fueled in part by the oldest fleet of the major domestic carriers, is also difficult to change. The image is darkened by the cloud of bankruptcy that has hung over the carrier since January 1992. Many travel agents and travelers shun bankrupt carriers.
Questions were raised about T.W.A.'s survival in recent weeks, after some boilerplate language in legal documents warned of possible liquidation, leading to overblown newspaper and trade press headlines.
"It's very frustrating," Mr. Zander said, adding, particularly because T.W.A. has lined up the pieces for a solid recovery.
And some analysts share his view. Michael W. Derchin, airlines analyst of Natwest Securities, calls T.W.A. a "born again" carrier, a label he also applies to Continental, which emerged last month from bankruptcy for the second time. Both carriers, he said, have low operating costs and are attempting to rebuild themselves while their larger competitors are trying to shrink themselves to profitable core operations.
T.W.A.'s Comfort Class program is working precisely as planned, Mr. Zander said, even though it cost the carrier some seats. The passengers T.W.A. is attracting with the program, in which it added about two inches of leg room per seat in coach class, are more than making up for those turned away on full flights.
"WE have a higher proportion of business travelers paying higher fares," Mr. Zander said. The airline's new strategy contrasts with Mr. Icahn's discount-store approach of trying to fill planes by cutting fares, a miscalculation in that he failed to anticipate his competitors would follow his cuts.
T.W.A. has also lowered its expenses, winning $660 million in employee concessions over three years, for example, and is no doubt enjoying the bidding war to attract its headquarters, currently in Mt. Kisco, N.Y., near Mr. Icahn's home.
In Missouri, for example, Governor Mel Carnahan signed legislation on Monday to save the airline $28 million through 1996 on state sales tax. The airline is considering St. Louis, where its domestic hub is located; Kansas City, Mo., site of an overhaul base and an administrative center, and Queens, N.Y., near Kennedy Airport.
The carrier is also weeding out its older aircraft and leasing newer models that are less expensive to operate and maintain. The strategy has proved timely, because the industry's excess capacity has depressed aircraft leasing rates.
EMPLOYEE morale and service have improved, reflected to some degree in Government statistics tracking airline performance. Although T.W.A. had the highest consumer complaint rate of the nine major airlines in March, it is improving; in January the rate was even higher. On-time and baggage handling performance were much improved in the first quarter.
Julius Maldutis, airline analyst at Salomon Brothers, said he believes T.W.A.'s service is getting much more friendly and efficient, and that service is often underestimated as a reason fliers choose a carrier. "Quality of service gets you the premium traveler, and no airline can survive without the premium traveler," he said.
Nor can an airline survive without capable managers, words often used by analysts to describe Mr. Wilson and Mr. Zander. The co-chiefs appear to have set aside any difficulties in sharing the chief executive's responsibilities. "Neither of us are possessed of a particularly large ego," Mr. Zander said. "We have an interest in seeing T.W.A. prosper, and we have no real hidden agendas."
Unlike Mr. Icahn, who had no previous airline experience, both men have long ties to T.W.A. Mr. Wilson, 56 years old, was chosen by employees. An operations man with 17 years experience at T.W.A., since 1988 he had been chief executive of GPA Technologies, a unit of the aircraft leasing company. Mr. Zander, who is 46, is the former head of finance appointed by the creditors. They have hired back several key T.W.A. executives who had left, and more are considering returning if the carrier finds a profitable niche.
But that is a big if. The airline has said it is seeking alliances with foreign carriers, although it declined to name any. Separately, some analysts have speculated that USAir and its partner, British Airways, might be tempted to acquire T.W.A.'s assets. The management team may also be changed -- perhaps making one of the two executives the boss, or perhaps bringing in an outsider -- upon the airline's departure from bankruptcy.
The uncertainty over the airline's future does not appear to weigh too heavily on Mr. Zander or Mr. Wilson. After all, Mr. Zander said, many of the people who predicted in 1992 that T.W.A. would be gone this year have moved the guessing game into 1994.
"Now they are saying, 'Will they make it through the winter?' " Mr. Zander said. "We've done better than anybody thought we would do."

 
 
IT'S ALL IN THE LEGROOM
 The survival of T.W.A. has been questionable for some time, but in its bid to leave bankruptcy this summer the carrier has given all those people who have made cramped legroom the No. 1 complaint on passenger surveys reason to cheer it on.
T.W.A. is trying a strategy that few others are eager to copy, namely adding about two inches of legroom to each seat in coach class, where the industry standard is 30 to 32 inches from the back of a seat to the back of the one in front of it. Many other carriers have added legroom in business class, but T.W.A. is the only major airline to offer it at competitive prices in coach class.
T.W.A.'s so-called Comfort Class, in which it is also striving to improve service -- a departure from Carl C. Icahn's ill-fated effort to gain market share with lowball fares -- is lauded by passengers and consumer advocates alike. "I just hope they are around long enough to make it," said Ed Perkins, editor of Consumer Reports Travel Letter.
But some analysts join competitors in wisecracking that the carrier is moving the deck chairs on the Titanic. Competitors, not wanting to match T.W.A. in removing seats, contend that the move is economically foolish because with fewer seats they would have to raise fares to levels passengers are unwilling to pay.
T.W.A. executives dismiss the wisecracks. They project that the new business the airline attracts will more than offset those passengers it might turn away on those occasions when it could fill an entire plane. The carrier, which is filling, on average, 63 percent of its seats, removed about 8 percent systemwide, an average of nine seats from its narrow-body aircraft and 25 from its wide-body planes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: T.W.A.'s co-chiefs: Glenn Zander, left, and Robin Wilson in Kansas City, Mo. (David Hutson for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "T.W.A. Then ... And Now," compares T.W.A. in 1988, when Carl C. Icahn took the company private and today, including number of employees, number and age of fleet of airplanes, number of flights and number of overseas destinations, revenues and profits and losses. (Source: T.W.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) MORGAN STANLEY (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BANKRUPTCIES AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); JET FUEL (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); FUEL MARKETS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); DEBT NOTES (67%); BONDS (67%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM CARL ICAHN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



419 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: It's Pay-for-Play -- Health Clubs for the Toddling Set

BYLINE: By DANIEL M. GOLD

 BODY:
CHILD'S play is becoming big business.
Gambling that parents of the growing baby boomlet are willing to pay for safe and creative places for their children to play, more commercial operators are rushing in to fill the perceived need with kiddie equivalents of health centers and fitness programs. 
 As they do so, what had previously been the province of localized or regional entrepreneurs is becoming the turf of such astute family marketers as Blockbuster Entertainment and McDonald's.
Discovery Zone, a Chicago-based chain founded in 1988, is the largest franchiser of indoor playgrounds, called Fun Centers, and is poised for a major growth spurt. At the end of March, the company was in 24 states with 64 centers -- brightly colored havens of plastic tubing, mazes, ladders, slides, netting, water mats, climbing ropes and assorted padded delights. The company says 16 more are being built while sites for another 36 are in some stage of negotiation.
Last month, Blockbuster bought a 20 percent stake in Discovery Zone and a two-year option to acquire a controlling interest after June 1994. Early next month, Discovery Zone plans an initial stock offering of 2.3 million shares, to be priced at $16 to $18 a share.
On its face, that might seem a bit much. It would raise more than $41 million for a company which, had it been a corporation instead of a partnership, would have had a net loss of $5.7 million in 1992 and an accumulated deficit of $8 million. Moreover, after the offering there will be 16.8 million shares outstanding, giving the company a valuation of $285 million, if shares average $17.
But the company plans an aggressive expansion by the end of the year, hoping to grow to 90 company-owned and 120 franchised centers in 31 states, Puerto Rico and Britain.
Going after the same market of 1-to-12-year-olds as Discovery Zone is that savviest of kid marketers, the McDonald's Corporation, which expects to have about 30 of its Leaps & Bounds play centers open by year end. Though known for its glacier-like testing methodology, McDonald's has moved uncharacteristically fast in expanding Leaps & Bounds. Its first center opened just two years ago.
"It seemed sort of natural for us," said Katherine Hartman, director of marketing at Leaps & Bounds. Still, she characterized the new openings as a test. Based at McDonald's headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill., Leaps & Bounds has operated mostly in the Midwest but plans to expand to both coasts by year end.
The older siblings of the indoor playground concept are the spate of developmental play programs, of which the leading marketer is Gymboree, of Burlingame, Calif. The company, now primarily a supplier of children's apparel, started in the mid-1970's franchising programs consisting of supervised play for children 6 months to 5 years old. With 360 licensed programs in nine countries, Gymboree's play programs bring in less than 10 percent of company revenues, said Linda Rasmussen, Gymboree's franchise president. "But it's very large in terms of good will," she added.
A score of local and regional operations with names like Playorena and Gym Dandy offer similar programs.
But it is not at all clear just how big the national appetite is for what these ventures are offering. Linda Killian, for one, an analyst with Renaissance Capital, a Greenwich, Conn., firm that tracks initial public offerings, is not convinced that pay-for-play is a necessarily sound concept.
"Retailing in general is becoming more and more kid oriented," she noted, with stores of all stripes providing more entertainment for the youngsters. "How many parents are going to want to fork over $8 for play and assorted knick-knacks for their children when a lot of entertainment is offered free in other stores while they shop?"
OTHER drawbacks are as obvious as the weather. Discovery Zone franchisees say the business ebbs and flows with the seasons, as well as the days of the week. And while all the operations stress they are not replacements for day care -- each requires that children be accompanied by an adult -- analysts say that liability coverage is onerous for those actually encouraging roughhousing among their young patrons.
Still, the commercial appeal is as easy as arithmetic. The 1990 Census found 47.4 million children 12 or younger in the United States. By the year 2000, there might be more than 51 million, more than one of every six Americans. That's a lot of quality time to fill.
"People are trying to figure out what to do with the kids," said Leo Shapiro, who heads his own market research firm in Chicago. "What these places offer is a structured environment in which the adult can feel comfortable. You're having a parent-child experience take place in a kind of amusement park. It's an extraordinarily positive experience."
On the other hand, Mr. Shapiro acknowledged, it can turn out to be "kind of negative. It's like having a kid who always wants to go to the neighbor's house. It's more interesting than at home."
AT Gymboree, franchisees hold weekly sessions, usually in neighborhood churches or community centers, with toddlers scrambling over slides and mats, see-saws and stairs for sessions up to an hour long. Sessions cost about $7 to $14 each, payable as a flat fee for a "semester" of 12 to 14 weeks.
Ms. Rasmussen contends that Gymboree doesn't really compete with indoor playgrounds. "What makes us unique is that it's a program, not just a place," she said. "You come every week, you see the same people, the same leaders, the same kids, the same parents."
Discovery Zone's Fun Centers and McDonald's Leaps & Bounds each have distinct play areas geared for toddlers, but children 4 to 9 clearly get the most fun out of the equipment. Staff members roam the area to enforce safety rules and to nip any antisocial behavior in the bud. There are arcade games for older children.
At Fun Centers, food courts and television monitors allow parents to do something else while keeping one eye on the play area. Admission is $4.95 to $6.95 per child, depending on location, for two hours of play. Parents are admitted free.
Leaps & Bounds centers operate similarly, except they charge $5.95 for each visit, with no time limit. And so far, all outlets are company owned and operated.
The Discovery Zone prospectus says a franchise costs $800,000, much of which is eaten up by the lease for sites that are generally 10,000 to 15,000 square feet.
Analysts see one likely target for expansion as shopping malls, many of which were hurt badly during the recession by tenants shuttering their doors. As a result, they have good sites available at relatively low lease rates.
Ms. Killian believes the race is to the swift -- and that favors fast-growing Discovery Zone. "If Discovery Zone is able to position itself as the child's entertainment outlet in a mall, there may be no need for other entrants," she said.
One such Discovery Zone outlet is in the Cross County Square Mall in Yonkers. With three sons 7 to 13 years old, Alice Scarborough, of Pelham, N.Y., has visited the Fun Center there a half-dozen times in 18 months. "It's a wonderful concept, especially in the doldrums of winter," she says. "The boys have a great time, there are lots of smiles and lots of sweat."
Still, between the food and tokens for the skill games, fun is not cheap. "The costs can get up there," she says.
Brochures promoting the centers emphasize that children will gain in coordination, agility and endurance from repeated visits. Whether all the activity actually makes for healthier children with improved motor skills is debatable. The most informed opinions on the subject seem to be, well, it couldn't hurt.
"It's important for kids of all ages to exercise," says Steve Guback, director of information for the President's Council on Physical Fitness. "It's just not necessary to go to these centers to get it."
 
 
 
A TINKER TOY HERITAGE
 DISCOVERY ZONE and Leaps & Bounds each developed from the idea it was time to get serious about playgrounds.
The leading chain of indoor play centers, Discovery Zone traces its roots to 1988, when Ron Matsch, a Kansas City, Mo., gymnastics coach, used 50 Tinker Toy sets to design the model for the first Fun Center.
Mr. Matsch is still with the company, in charge of research and development. But last year, Donald Flynn, a board member and major franchiser of Blockbuster Entertainment video stores, gained a controlling interest in Discovery Zone. He became chairman and chief executive.
Mr. Flynn's involvement helped attract Blockbuster, which took a 20 percent stake and made a commitment to help finance an expansion into Britain. Blockbuster chairman Wayne Huizenga and several other top Blockbuster executives are now on Discovery Zone's board.
While not nearly as aggressive as Discovery Zone, McDonald's Leaps & Bounds is staking out its own corner of the sandbox.
The company says the idea for Leaps & Bounds came to Ed Rensi, president of McDonald's USA, while he was bemoaning the lack of a playground for his grandchild.
Started in 1991 with a single operation in Naperville, Ill., Leaps & Bounds plans to expand almost weekly through the summer.
Katherine Hartman, marketing director at Leaps & Bounds, said it was purposely made a separate entity to avoid confusing children. "If they start thinking that they're going to find something in Leaps & Bounds that's at McDonald's, or vice versa, it's going to be a disappointment," she said.
But the company has used coupons at McDonald's stores to help promote the play centers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Exploring the Discovery Zone Fun Center in the Cross County Square Mall in Yonkers. (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DISCOVERY ZONE MCDONALD'S CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISCOVERY ZONE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HEALTH CLUBS; INDUSTRY PROFILES EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (79%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FRANCHISORS (76%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (73%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); CLIMBING (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%); STOCK OFFERINGS (66%); 

PERSON: GOLD, DANIEL M

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



420 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
New Tax Policy: Losing Investors Must Pay More

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
Let's hope stock prices never go down. If they do, Dan Rostenkowski and Bill Clinton have decided that the losers should pay more taxes.
A provision buried in the tax act approved by the Ways and Means Committee may make it impossible for investors unlucky enough to have capital losses ever to take tax deductions for those losses. 
 Would such a tax provision affect investor behavior? It might. To be sure, no one buys a stock expecting to take a capital loss. But this tax bill also has some unwelcome news for those who get the capital gains they wanted. Some of them would end up paying higher taxes, too.
None of that sounds like the incentives for long-term investment that candidate Clinton used to talk about, even though the bill increases the tax advantage for long-term capital gains. The top tax rate on such gains would stay at 28 percent, while the marginal tax rate on ordinary income would rise to 39.6 percent for high-income taxpayers. Relatively speaking, that makes it more attractive to own a stock on which returns will come as capital gains, than a bond or high-dividend stock that will pay ordinary income.
But a catch comes if you borrow money to buy that stock. An investor who has investment income can take tax deductions on the interest paid to finance those investments. But the new bill effectively reduces the value of that deduction for those whose investment income is capital gains. As a result, leveraged winners will pay more taxes.
As for losers, the tax law has never treated them with love. The current law says that capital losses -- what you got if you bought Philip Morris last year -- can offset capital gains but that only $3,000 a year of such losses can be deducted from ordinary income.
Wall Street has come up with ways to get around that, by locking in short-term capital gains in essentially riskless transactions. Alas, the tax bill has provisions that recharacterize the gains from those transactions as ordinary income. So the loser will bear his losses alone, while the winner shares his profits with Uncle Sam. "This is targeted at the poor guy who has losses," said Bob Gordon, the president of 21st Securities. Mr. Gordon is not objective -- he has made good money from designing such strategies -- but he has a point.
This tax bill by itself probably is not enough to make investors bail out of stocks, but it comes at a time when inflation-adjusted stock prices are at the high end of historic valuations and potentially more vulnerable even to minor disturbances. By contrast, gold is cheap from a historical perspective.
It was bad inflation news, not the tax bill, that shook up investors late last week, pushing gold up and stocks down. But even after the inflation scare passes, the tax bill might dampen investor enthusiasm for stocks. By changing the rules to make wins less valuable and losses more painful, the Government might make losses more likely.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 5.82 to 3,443.01," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, May 7-14, 1993; "Gold is Still Low ..." tracks gold prices, Jan. 1970-May 14, 1993; "... And Stocks Are Very High," tracks S. & P. 500 stock index, Jan. 1970-May 14, 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BONDS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



421 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Stars That Got Lost in the Crowd

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
With oceans of money flooding mutual funds, and more and more of the most popular ones slamming the door on new investors, it hardly seems possible that a good fund could escape notice.
But in their fourth annual list of "forgotten funds," analysts at Morningstar Inc., the Chicago mutual fund researchers, have found five overlooked funds they call real winners. The funds, which each manage less than $100 million, have at least five years of track records, mostly built by the current managers. They offer what Morningstar calls "two splendid attributes -- proven managements and agile asset bases." 
 The sole bond fund in the group, Harbor Bond, has outperformed its peers by more than 2 percentage points a year, on average, for the last five years. Managers of the four stock funds, while varying markedly in stock-picking style, are all leery of today's stock market, describing it as overvalued.
* Edward Trumpbour has managed Delaware Value, which he calls a "traditional small- and mid-cap value fund," since its 1987 inception. While he looks for such usual measures as low price-to-earnings ratios, he says, "I try to buy mundane growth, in the 12 to 15 percent range, while most small-company funds look for 25 to 40 percent growth."
By focusing on what he calls "discounted growth situations," he reduces the fund's volatility and buys strong but overlooked companies. His real competition, he says, consists of corporations seeking acquisitions.
The fund's 110 or so stocks have market capitalizations ranging from a tiny $15 million to as high as $1 billion. Money has been flowing in recently, pushing assets to $93 million, more than double the level when Morningstar began compiling this list two months ago. But much of that new money remains uninvested "because it's a tough market on a valuation basis," Mr. Trumpbour said; the fund's cash level has risen to nearly 30 percent.
A trip to Hong Kong in February has led to investments there that now comprise 5 percent of the fund, including Top Form, an apparel and lingerie company, and Hong Kong Aircraft and Engineering.
* William H. Gross is manager of, among other things, a primarily institutional bond fund, Pimco Total Return, which holds more than $3 billion, and Harbor Bond, with under $100 million -- a difference Morningstar analysts attribute to a wrongheaded lack of enthusiasm on the part of investors for researching fixed-income investments.
The "forgotten" Harbor Bond owns a mix of government, corporate and mortgage issues, with an unusually high 15 percent now stashed in overseas bonds because Mr. Gross sees more opportunity in Canada and Europe than in the United States.
While he is not particularly worried about inflation picking up, Mr. Gross is sour on the stock market. Profit growth, he said, "will be decent, but we've gone too far in terms of valuations relative to foreign markets, and we're soon due for a setback."
* The Meridian Fund, in Larkspur, Calif., invests in small and mid-size growth stocks: 90 percent of its companies have $750 million or less in annual revenues and anticipated revenue growth rates of 15 percent or better, says Richard Aster, who has managed Meridian since its mid-1984 inception. Its portfolio is concentrated, holding between 20 and 40 stocks (32 at the moment), mainly in the health care, retail and technology sectors.
Mr. Aster's favorite sector today is cellular operations and paging. He likes Cellular Communications Inc. and Vanguard Cellular, two independent operators, as well as Mobile Telecommunications Inc.
One-third of the portfolio right now is in cash. "We're not market timers, but I'm having trouble buying the companies I want to buy at proper valuations," he said.
* The Phoenix Total Return Fund, in Enfield, Conn., juggles its portfolio among stocks, bonds and cash. Today's equity allocation is a low 40 percent because "there's a great deal of difficulty finding companies with good earnings at a decent price," said Phoenix's manager, Robert Milnamow, who took over the fund in late 1989. The fund owns a combination of small- and large-capitalization issues, and Mr. Milnamow's favorite area now is telecommunications, where he owns Motorola and QVC Network, a home-shopping channel.
Bonds, which can range as high as 35 percent of the fund, account for only 3 percent today because "the absolute return on bonds isn't worth the risk," he said. Given that bonds pay a premium of only 3 percentage points over cash, it's not surprising the fund's cash position is at about 60 percent today.
* The Weitz Value Fund, in Omaha, is a stock fund, "but I'm interested in absolute as well as relative return," said Wally Weitz, the fund's manager since its 1986 inception.Given that, cash holdings range as high as 35 percent, leading Morningstar analysts to call it "an unannounced balanced fund -- and a fine one at that."
Cash represents nearly one-third of the fund today because Mr. Weitz says stocks are overpriced, partly a function of investors fleeing low-yielding certificates of deposit, creating "an inflation of equity prices."
The fund has a minimum investment of $25,000. Its biggest sector now is cable television, which Mr. Weitz says is "mispriced because of the legal uncertainties." Among his holdings: Time Warner, Telecommunications Inc. and the Comcast Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Table lists total returns annualized through April, of Morgingstar's list of "forgotten funds."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC MORNINGSTAR INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORNINGSTAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (90%); CANADA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LINGERIE (68%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE BILL GROSS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



422 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
H-P's New Laser: Smaller, Cheaper but Not Faster

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
The Hewlett-Packard Company's new Laserjet 4L personal laser printer, for DOS and Windows computers, is better and cheaper than its popular predecessor, the Laserjet IIP. At a suggested list price of $849, and a probable discounted price of $650, the 4L might be the laser that blasts dot-matrix printers into oblivion.
Hewlett-Packard plans to deliver another version of the printer, called the Laserjet 4ML (list price $1,279, with a likely street price of about $999), for Macintosh computers and those PC users who use the powerful Adobe Postscript Level 2 software. The 4ML will come with more than 50 extra type fonts (80 fonts in all, compared with 26 in the 4L). 
 For many executives the 4L and 4ML may be inexpensive enough to justify, finally, having a personal laser printer.
"These are convenience printers for people who want to attach a printer directly to their PC and be able to bring a page out whenever they need it," said Jack E. Gold, senior analyst with the Meta Group, a research company in Westport, Conn. "It really goes after the dot-matrix printers, where people aren't getting the quality they expect, especially now that they have Windows and other graphical user interfaces."
For those who think of laser printers as bulky behemoths, the 4L will open some eyes. It is about half the size of previous Laserjet models, and at 15.5 pounds, less than half the weight of the IIP. Hewlett-Packard achieved the reduction with a new printer engine and by compressing many electronics onto a small internal card.
But it is probably the slimmer price that will attract the attention of executives and people who work in small offices or at home. The difference in the price of a typical dot-matrix printer and that of a laser printer is now only a few hundred dollars, and the difference in print quality is dramatic.
The printers will be among the easiest laser printers to operate, with the exception of the Apple Laser writers.
"The most startling feature of the 4L is the presence of only a single button on the front control panel," said Marco Boer, a printer analyst with the International Data Corporation in Framingham, Mass. "H-P has shifted all status feedback to the users through software."
If the 4L models have a shortcoming it is printing speed, which is rated at four pages per minute, the same as the IIP. Still, the print quality of the 4L is noticeably better. The new printer has a standard resolution of 300 dots per inch (300 d.p.i.), but it uses the Hewlett-Packard resolution enhancement technology to produce especially crisp graphics and text. The resolution enhancement technology was first used in Hewlett-Packard's more advanced Laserjet models, which offer 600 d.p.i.
The 4L also reflects a new level of environmental awareness. A small touch is that the manual is printed on recycled paper; of more significance is Economode, the equivalent of draft mode on dot-matrix printers. In Economode, the 4L lays down half the toner used in regular mode, thus extending the life of the print cartridge.
C. J. Meiser 3d, who analyzes printers for BIS Strategic Decisions of Norwell, Mass., said, "Type and images are still readable when printed in Economode, but the page looks dull and flat." But for rough drafts that may be all right, and on the environmental side, there would be fewer of the hard-to-dispose toner cartridges.
One radical change is that neither the 4L nor the 4ML has an on-off switch. Instead, the printers slip into "sleep" mode when they do not detect any printing requests. While sleeping, the printer draws just 5 watts of power, compared with the 40 watts to 90 watts that earlier Laserjets drew even in an inactive mode.
People tend to leave laser printers turned on for long periods of time because it takes so long for the printers to warm up. In contrast, the 4L arises instantly from sleep, and is immediately ready to print.
Hewlett-Packard also has replaced the conventional corona wire, which deposits the toner particles in the right place on a printer document -- and which produces ozone -- with a nonpolluting transfer roller. The environmental advances presumably will soon find their way into other Hewlett-Packard products.
Macintosh users and PC users who embellish text documents with graphic images or fancy type fonts, will be attracted to the 4ML when it becomes available in the summer. The 4ML is a Postscript printer, which refers to the page description language software that determines how the printer and the computer software work together to lay an image on paper. The 4ML also has the Enhanced PCL 5 language that is standard on the 4L, and it automatically switches between the two depending on the type of file it is asked to print.
Postscript, a powerful language, is a favorite of graphics professionals. When a Postscript file is created, or when a Postscript font is used, a Postscript printer can take over many of the computational chores from the main computer processor. It was not long ago that the Postscript option added $2,000 to the cost of a laser printer.
While Panasonic, Epson and others also offer laser printers in the $999 range, the 4ML seems to have far more features.
The 4ML, for example, uses a RISC (reduced instruction set computing) microprocessor, the Intel Corporation's 80960. Until now, the powerful RISC chips have been used mainly in high-end lasers to speed the printing of complex graphics. The 4ML also comes with a Localtalk connector for attachment to a Macintosh, as well as a Bitronics parallel connector for a Windows computer. The 4l has the Bitronics connector.
The Bitronics port will be especially useful, because it will allow two-way communication between the printer and the computer. Macintosh users have had similar abilities for years, but Windows users will find the bidirectional communication features of the 4ML refreshing. Hewlett-Packard has not finished the Windows software needed to take advantage of the two-way communication but has promised that it would be ready later this year.
The two-way messaging addresses the annoyance of sending a file to the printer and discovering that the printer is jammed or out of paper. When the software is available, both the 4L and 4ML users would get messages from the printer alerting them to any printing problem.
Another new feature on the 4L is called memory enhancement technology. Laser printers, like computers, must have system memory to store documents waiting to be printed. If a laser has limited memory, it may not be able to print all of a complex image. As more users switch to Windows and take advantage of its graphics abilities, the chance of overwhelming the memory of a printer increases.
Hewlett-Packard has developed a way to squeeze more out of the printer's memory. Its memory enhancement technology compresses data and font information, much like Stacker or other programs do on hard disks. While it does not work with Postscript files, in many cases the 4L can print more with less memory.
So what is the future of the dot-matrix printer? Probably it would continue to enjoy a life in offices that use multipart forms, which laser printers in any variety cannot handle.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (62%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (97%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS COMPUTER PRINTERS (93%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (78%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



423 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/May 9-14

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
The Clinton Counter-Revolution on Taxes 

It'll be a tough job to undo the Reagan tax revolution, but somebody's got to do it -- and Bill Clinton has volunteered. He passed the first hurdle last week when the House Ways and Means Committee approved the basic outline of his plan to raise most people's taxes to hack away at the deficit. Voting strictly on party lines, the panel voted one of the biggest tax increases ever -- nearly $250 billion over five years. The Republicans weren't even invited for the tinkering -- not surprising, since they're standing so fiercely against Mr. Clinton that, if they could, they'd probably veto his morning jog. The tax bill should clear the full House, but the Senate -- with Bob Dole ready to pounce -- is definitely another matter. So it's anybody's guess what tax bill, if any, will emerge.
Could This Be Inflation?
 
You were greedy. You didn't want to refinance your mortgage quite yet. Rates might drop another half-point. Well, maybe you blew it. Inflation -- the beast supposedly in long hibernation -- poked its nose out last week and growled. First, April producer prices jumped 0.6 percent -- the biggest rise in two and a half years. Next came word that consumer prices rose twice as fast as expected, 0.4 percent -- for a 4.3 percent rate so far this year. And there were no comforting footnotes: The price rises were broad, affecting most goods and services Americans use daily. President Clinton, counting on low long-term rates to offset the effects of higher taxes, didn't want to hear it. "It could be just a blip," he said. But it looks like more than that.
 
Forgiving Air Traffic Controllers
 
Ronald Reagan was one sheriff you didn't cross. Air traffic controllers tried it in a 1981 strike, and were soon sent packing, barred from ever getting their jobs back. Mr. Reagan rode on, a bit taller in the saddle. But for better or worse, politics has ceased being a cowboy movie, and congressional pressure mounted to end this harsh exile. President Clinton agreed, and will invite the dismissed controllers to reapply. But symbolism could outweigh reality here, for there are precious few air traffic jobs available.
 
Cezanne, at 1980's Prices
 
Amid all this 90's austerity, the spirit of 80's-style spending clearly lurks -- just lying dormant between eruptions. It bubbled forth at Sotheby's last week, the tone captured in an auctioneer's comment in the heat of the bidding: "What's $100,000 between friends?" The 80's, with art prices at giddy highs, were followed by a couple of morning-after years when prices turned decidedly sober. But when the hammer fell at this sale, Cezanne's "Still Life With Apples" had fetched $28.6 million. It was, by more than $10 million, a record for a Cezanne, and the first painting to sell for more than $20 million in three years.
 
Untangling Those Nanny Rules
 
It's about as much consolation to Zoe Baird as pardoning someone who's just been executed. But in a tacit admission of the complexity of paying taxes for domestic help -- the issue that derailed Ms. Baird -- a House panel voted to simplify the rules. It also voted a sharp rise, to $1,750 a year, in what an employer can pay a worker before becoming liable for Social Security taxes. This rule had clearly fallen by the wayside, for the $50-a-quarter threshold had not been adjusted for inflation since 1950. The rusty lining, though, is that domestic workers -- the forgotten part of this equation -- could find it harder to gain eligibility for Social Security benefits.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Japan Exports Some Tough Talk
 
Though America can never seem to export many of its products to Japan, its exports of criticism are never in short supply. In Bill Clinton's Washington, bashing Japan's trade practices is an increasingly popular parlor game. But Japan has had it with this abuse gap, and last week it lashed out, trying to turn the tables by accusing the United States and other nations of unfair trade practices. It assailed America's policies as being based on the assumption that the mere fact of a trade deficit proved unfair trading. Among the things it singled out for criticism were the "Buy American" provisions in various laws and the classifying of mini-vans as trucks, not cars, for tariff purposes.
 
Italy's Corruption: New Heights
 
Italy's corruption scandal reached the top of the nation's largest public corporation last week, two weeks after a new Government came in amid a tide or reformist fervor. Franco Nobili, head of Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale, set up by Mussolini and now Italy's biggest employer, was arrested in Rome and charged with corruption. He has a lot of company: in just over a year, 1,500 executives and politicians have been arrested or interrogated in connection with bribes made in return for public-works contracts.
 
Meanwhile, Italy's biggest private company, Fiat, sought to leave the scandal far behind, becoming the first company in the nation to issue a code of ethical conduct for employees. Fiat, which at first had indignantly denied involvement, forbade its 300,000 employees to offer bribes of any kind.
 
A Blow to European Unity
 
It looked good on paper: Europe would move steadily, by decade's end, toward a single currency and a central monetary policy. But reality proved messier. A deepening recession made it harder for nations with weaker currencies to keep up with the likes of Germany and France, and fault lines started slicing through Europe. Another big crack appeared last week, when Spain and Portugal -- two of the weaker links in the hoped-for chain -- devalued their currencies, by 8 percent in Spain and 6.5 percent in Portugal. Spain had for months tried to prop up the peseta, but in the end, the dream of a unified Europe had to give way to more immediate needs back home.
 
 
 
COMPANIES

 
Pension Alert at General Motors
 
In spite of recent rises, today's interest rates are still awfully low -- and, as often said, that's good for many people but bad for those depending on interest income. And when it's a giant like General Motors, that bad news can have some big numbers attached to it. As if G.M. didn't have troubles enough, it said last week that if rates stay low through October, its unfunded pension liability could rise as high as $20 billion, from $14 billion, because of low yields on bonds held in its pension portfolio. This could force G.M. to chip in more for pensions, meaning it would have less to offer the U.A.W. in contract talks this summer.
 
'Defective,' Every Single One
 
When tobacco companies are sued, they trot out their "experts": Yes, they say, the earth is flat, and cigarettes are safe. In the next breath, the companies say smokers assume the risk themselves. (Or, as a 9-year-old boy might say, standing by his sobbing little sister, "Nothing happened, and I didn't do it.") But it's worked, as they have fended off all suits. But last week a Mississippi judge came up with a new twist, ruling that cigarettes are defective products because, "when used as intended, they cause cancer" and other diseases. The ruling, in which the judge called cigarettes "the most lethal product which may be legally sold," could clear the path for more suits.
 
You Could Look Out the Window
 
Here's what the world has come to: people so busy -- or feeling some bizarre peer pressure to appear so busy -- that at every spare moment they must tether themselves to some electronic device. The hiker, once alone with nature, might stroll wooded paths, phone at ear, talking to a stockbroker. The air traveler who once gazed at the Grand Canyon now stares at a laptop computer. Well, the airlines are enforcing just a slight return to simpler times: Last week, American Airlines became the latest to ban laptops and other devices during takeoff and landing, saying they may disrupt navigation instruments.
 
Equitable, Alive and Kicking
 
Two years ago, Equitable seemed on the brink of insolvency, brought low by those familiar sirens of the 80's -- junk bonds and real estate. But a lot has changed since Richard Jenrette took over in 1990. The new chairman slashed away at costs and assets, and the giant insurer got a $1 billion shot in the arm from Groupe Axa, the French insurer, plus more than $1 billion by issuing stock. Last week it capped its turnaround by reporting its first profitable quarter since 1989. Its stock, which went as low as $7.125 in the fall, now sells for $21.
 
Boeing Jets for Continental
 
Continental Airlines is wasting no time showing the world that it's back. Upgrading its fleet is important for the reborn carrier if it's going to fly in the big leagues, since its planes, on average, are four years older than those of its main rivals. So just two weeks after fleeing bankruptcy -- the first airline ever to do so twice -- it ordered 92 Boeing jetliners, worth $4.5 billion. Continental was mainly reviving an order wiped out by the bankruptcy, but Boeing still saw a "strong endorsement of our products," since a pre-bankruptcy order to Airbus was not revived. And Continental could also be saying thanks, because Boeing gave it some help while it was in bankruptcy.

GRAPHIC: PHotos: Air traffic contollers at work (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
Cezanne painting sold at auctionz (Sotheby's); Nannies (Photo Trends) Boeing 777 airplane (Boeings)
 
Graphs track monthly percentage change in the consumer prices index, April 1992-April 1993 (Source:' Bureau of Labor Statistics); daily closing prices for the Equitable Companies, July 1992-May 14, 1993 (Source: Datastream)
 
Chart compares current tax laws and proposed changes by Clinton Administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); AUCTIONS (87%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (85%); TAX INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); VETO (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (75%); POLITICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (52%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



424 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 38; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Latin America's Dark Side

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A New Rush to Latin America" (April 11) addressed the economic situation and prospects for the southern hemisphere from an exclusively northern perspective. The effects of the free market were discussed only in the context of the increasing strategic importance of Latin America in the United States business agenda. 
 In fact, there is a dark side to the economic reforms imposed by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the International Development Bank as conditions for economic aid. Impressive macroeconomic growth has come hand-in-hand with rises in poverty and hunger.
The "economic miracle" in Latin America has received a great deal of hype in recent years, with Chile, Mexico and Costa Rica given as models that demonstrate the successes of unregulated free-market economics. For example, Chile boasts a decade of the highest growth rates in South America (5 percent a year), low inflation rates (20 percent a year) and unemployment rates lower than those of the United States (under 5 percent this year).
What these figures don't say is that macroeconomic growth has been accompanied by declining wages, unambiguous growth in poverty, loss of social benefits and a growing income gap between the rich and the poor.
Debt has grown faster than gross domestic product, wealth has become more concentrated, and the percentage of the population living below the poverty line has climbed. For example:
* In 1987, 18.6 percent of the Costa Rican population was living in poverty; in 1991, the percentage had risen to 24.4 percent.
* In Chile, 42 percent now live below the poverty line, and the income share for the top and bottom fifths of the population went from 44.5 percent and 7.6 percent, respectively, in 1969 to 54.6 percent and 4.4 percent in 1989.
* In Mexico, more than half the population lives below the poverty line, and labor's share of the national income dropped from 43 percent to 35 percent between 1980 and 1987.
Social spending and government programs have been severely cut as a condition for the United States and World Bank loans, so the poor have no social safety net.
The rise in employment is in part a rise in those self-employed, or working in the informal economy: i.e., people often living on the cusp of poverty, with no benefits or security. For example, in Costa Rica, the percentage of self-employed (including informal-sector) workers leaped from 3.6 percent in 1987 to 24.8 percent in 1991.
In sum, debt is at record levels, many macroeconomic targets are unfulfilled, people have diminished access to social services, poverty is rising and growth is slackening. The article left the impression that United States investment prospects are promising because Latin America's economy is picking up. In truth, it is the other way around: the growth is a result of foreign investment -- attracted by low wages, devalued currencies and less regulation.
 
CATHERINE ORENSTEIN
New York, April 12
 
The author is promotion manager at the North American Congress on Latin America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letters

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (93%); CHILE (93%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (58%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (93%); CHILE (93%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INFLATION (76%); POVERTY RATES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TRENDS (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



425 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 9; Page 16; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: ENGAGEMENTS;
Ms. Kelley and Mr. Southworth

 BODY:
Rosemary and Kevin Kelley of West Point, N.Y., have announced October wedding plans for their daughter, Mary Kathryn Kelley, to Hamilton Southworth 3d, the son of Eleanor and Hamilton Southworth of New York.
Ms. Kelley, 27, is a law student at the University of Virginia, as is her fiance. She graduated from Mills College. Her father, an Army colonel, oversees field recruiters for the department of admissions at the United States Military Academy at West Point and teaches economics there. Her mother teaches job-search skills, primarily in Newburgh, N.Y., for the New York State Division of Adult Education. 
 Mr. Southworth graduated from Yale University. His mother is the coordinator of alumnae affairs at the Chapin School in New York. His father is a systems consultant at Paine Webber in Weehawken, N.J.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ms. Kelley and Mr. Southworth (Carole Cheah)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (90%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (90%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (90%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); ARMIES (88%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); 

PERSON: KELLEY, MARY KATHRYN; SOUTHWORTH, HAMILTON 3D

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



426 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: What People Want When Taxes Rise: Their Money's Worth

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN his quest to persuade Congress and the country to swallow a nearly $250 billion tax increase over the next five years, President Clinton could do worse than to listen to Darry Sragow. He's walked the walk.
Now California's deputy insurance commissioner, Mr. Sragow was recently chief aide to the chairman of the state's Board of Equalization, which oversees the most politically volatile property tax system in America. More to the point, he is a Democratic campaign strategist of some skill, a man who recently placed his stethoscope to the heart of public opinion in focus groups. 
 Taxes? "Nothing's changed," Mr. Sragow said. "People don't want higher taxes and they don't think they need higher taxes.
"But," he added, "the underlying dynamic isn't financial, and it isn't economic. It's the complete lack of faith in governmental institutions. They just don't believe that throwing more money at social problems and government agencies is going to work."
Dislike of taxes is a constant. No lessons for Mr. Clinton there. But if Mr. Sragow and his peers in other states are to be believed, overcoming a deep distrust of government's ability to perform is the key to whether those who raise taxes will survive politically.
This distrust rises menacingly, the state politicians say, each time a tax is advertised as a cure-all for fiscal or social maladies only to be revealed later as simply a vial of especially nasty snake oil. It is a phenomenon that governors, legislators and even Presidents ignore at their peril.
New Jersey's Democratic Governor, Jim Florio, illustrates the challenge. Three years ago, the Governor rammed a $2.8 billion tax increase through the state Legislature largely on the premise that the money was essential to shore up the government and overhaul the schools.
 
Florio's Vulnerability
 After that widely unpopular step, he has rebounded in the polls for a variety of reasons, but in November he faces voters with his tax vulnerability still showing: Four large school systems, ones supposed to have been helped by the new revenue, are under state oversight because of incompetence or corruption, including Newark's, whose finances were taken over last week.
Stephen A. Salmore, a Republican political consultant and professor at Rutgers University, said "education frames the issues exactly" in the coming gubernatorial campaign.
"The Government's broke," he said. "We wasted the money. We tried spending lots of money on the schools and it didn't work. Now it's time to try something different."
Montana may set a different sort of example next month. There, the newly elected Republican Governor, Marc Racicot, persuaded the Democratic Legislature this spring to schedule a referendum on the first sales tax in state history. Mr. Racicot has tied up the scope of the proposed tax tighter than a roped calf. Proceeds will be used to equalize spending in schools statewide and for relief from a painfully high property tax. The poor will get a rebate to offset its regressive nature. Future increases will be hamstrung by a constitutional cap.
One other thing: Before proposing the tax, Mr. Racicot wrung $100 million from the budget. "It's an uphill fight, no question about it," Andrew H. Malcolm, an aide to the Governor, said of the June 8 referendum. "But I think we've got a fighting chance."
Summed up, the morals of the Florio and Racicot stories are: Don't raise taxes until you've exhausted every other alternative, or at least have persuaded voters that you have done so. If you still must do the deed, explain why convincingly, and say precisely how you will spend the money, preferably on a popular cause. Then lash yourself down with restraints on your use of the take.
Finally, once the money is in hand, deliver on your promises. Voters sometimes forget, but nowadays they almost never forgive.
After months of stumbling, Mr. Clinton now seems wise to those rules.
Last week, with his energy- and income-tax plans under attack, he delved into his gubernatorial files for a tactic he used in Arkansas just two years ago: He vowed to place new tax revenues in a "trust fund" dedicated solely to reducing the deficit.
That the pledge was wholly an accounting device, lacking either teeth or fiscal impact, was secondary. The idea was to recouple his tax proposal to the argument that helped get Mr. Clinton elected: that the Government is bobbing down a raging river of red ink and his plan is the only way to rescue it.
Nevertheless, by the yardstick of campaigns for state tax increases, the President's sales job has not gotten off to a good start. His case for public sacrifice suffered a deep and self-inflicted wound in March, when he requested and Congress rejected $19 billion in new deficit spending -- for roads, Government jobs and research projects -- before cutting even one Federal program. Since then, Republicans have skillfully savaged the White House over backtracking on spending cuts.
Out in the states, experts say passage of Mr. Clinton's tax measure in anything like its present form is by no means certain. For one thing, they point out, Congress reacts to public pressure. Without a voter mandate for the tax plan, lawmakers are prone to adjust it to the liking of special interests or reject it altogether. Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois said as much last week as he steered the tax plan through his Ways and Means Committee. "The Administration, never having written a tax bill, doesn't understand that you have to get supporters out there -- not exclusively in the House and Senate," he said.
Another factor is that Mr. Clinton, much like Mr. Florio, has lashed his political fortunes to a pledge to change Government for the better, even at the cost of some pain. If voters are not brought aboard the tax juggernaut now, the pain -- and the exponential force of mistrust -- will be all that matters when the President seeks re-election in 1996.
"People want action on the economy, and if he can convince them they can't get the economy going until the deficit comes down, then they'll support him," said Jim Ruvolo of the Democratic National Committee. "But if they don't see any results, they're going to punish those they think are responsible."
Still, recent history suggests that luring the public onto the juggernaut is not impossible. Tax increases seemed to have little impact on the electoral fates of state politicians in 1993, according to the Center for the Study of the States in Albany, N.Y. Since 1991, said Steven Gold, the center's director, more than 15 states have raised taxes by at least 5 percent of their entire state budgets. Connecticut's Democratic legislature enacted its first income tax ever in 1991, at the urging of a political independent, Governor Lowell P. Weicker Jr. So far, lawmakers seem to have suffered little at the polls.
But that masks the real difficulty of persuading voters to open their wallets. To cite just two cases, Californians rejected requests last year to raise taxes on the rich and property taxes on business; South Dakotans turned down the chance to trade lower property taxes for a new income tax.
Tax increases that generate money for unrestricted spending, similar to the income- and energy-tax increases Mr. Clinton proposes, are rare as spotted owls at the state level. "Dedicated" taxes are the rave, like the cigarette-tax increase approved by Massachusetts voters in November to finance health programs, to name just one.
Mr. Sragow, the California strategist, says the President has a signal advantage in his tax campaign -- his image as a man who can change the status quo. "If I were advising Bill Clinton on what he has to do to sell a tax increase," he said, "I'd tell him he has to show that the cause is an important one. And maybe more important, I'd tell him he's going to have to show that elected officials aren't going to mess with the money."
But just how much ground the President has to make up from his earlier miscues was underscored the very night after his trust-fund pledge, when the comedian Jay Leno took aim at it on NBC's "Tonight Show."
"Clinton and trust -- I don't know," Mr. Leno cracked. "It's sort of like Senator Bob Dole starting a charm school."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SALES TAX (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); INSURANCE (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); REFERENDUMS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



427 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: The Nightmare's Roots: The Dream World Called Serbia

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
OVER the last year, as Americans and people in other Western countries have been forced to focus their attention on Serbia, this land and its inhabitants seem to have become more and more puzzling. In their efforts to justify the brutal war and "ethnic cleansing" being waged in the name of a Greater Serbia, Serbs often appear gripped by emotions that take them beyond the reach of rational argument.
In explaining this, many analysts have pointed out that Serbia operates in near-isolation from the outside world's information media, and from opposition viewpoints. Some, like the late novelist Ivo Andric, have suggested that the explanation lies deeper, in the land's historic culture. Serbs, Mr. Andric wrote, are a people "who easily make up fables and spread them quickly, wherein reality is strangely and inextricably mixed and interwoven with legend." 
 The central belief that has sustained Serbs during the current war is that they are in the right and that their critics (meaning virtually everyone else in the world) are either blind or malicious. This belief, put forward by their leaders and built partly on remembrance of grievous wrongs done to previous generations, has led them into a war in pursuit of an ethnically pure nation-state, a concept that repels most of the rest of the world.
But in the context of daily life in modern Serbia, it is not so surprising that so many Serbs could believe there is a global plot to suppress them. Life here often seems enveloped in a strangeness that sets the intellectual climate apart from that in most other European capitals.
State-run television, which is the main source of information for most people here, often features guests who proclaim odd and wondrous theories. One writer who often appears on talk shows asserts that Serbs are "the second Biblical people," chosen by God like the Jews but destined forever to be misunderstood and persecuted. Another regular guest assures viewers that at the moment when final destruction threatens the Serbian nation, a fleet of vampires will arise from the cemeteries to overwhelm its enemies. Serbs, he warns, should stockpile garlic to be sure the vampires do not mistakenly attack them.
One evening recently, the nightly television newscast carried a graphic report that Croatian forces in Bosnia had attacked a Serbian village and systematically killed every man, woman and child there, using not firearms but implements of torture. Inquiries revealed that the report was substantially true, but that the reporter had omitted one detail. The massacre took place more than 50 years ago, during World War II.
It is not just television that treats Serbs to such spectacles. Serbia's leading institutions include people who, in other lands, might be behind bars or in padded cells. One leading member of Parliament heads a terror squad that specializes in blowing up mosques. Another, a convicted bank robber, is one of Interpol's most wanted criminals. Others are small-time thieves and triggermen. Many democratically oriented deputies have quit the Parliament in disgust.
What does such a Parliament debate? In one recent session, the principal agenda item was a proposal to ban use of the letter U. This is the initial of Ustashe, the fascist movement that ruled Croatia under Nazi occupation in the 1940's, and Croatian fighters in Bosnia sometimes paint it on the ruins of Serbian houses they have destroyed. Use of this letter by Serbs, members of Parliament argued, constitutes virtual treason and publishers should be required to substitute the letter V.
Then there's this: Serbia's two most successful bankers, who made fortunes last year by promising gullible depositors interest rates of up to 200 percent a month on hard currency deposits. When these confidence games collapsed, one of the bankers, who ran for president last December, fled the country and announced from abroad that he would use his fortune to sponsor the assassination of the country's leaders. The other, a woman who drives a shiny Mercedes and wears fabulously expensive clothes and jewelry, surveyed a crowd of ruined depositors clamoring for their money outside one of her banks and asked, "Who are these scum?"
 
Worthless Money
 Hyper-inflation has rendered the currency all but worthless. In December a dollar bought about 600 dinars. The rate is now over 100,000 to 1.
Serbia's political leaders also reflect an other-worldly quality. The shadowy President, Slobodan Milosevic, rarely appears in public, and citizens are left to divine his views from cryptic statements. Radovan Karadzic, the psychiatrist who is the Bosnian Serbs' leader, insists in the midst of Serbian offensives that Serbs never launch offensives. His hobby is gambling, and he has spent many post-midnight hours running up debts at Belgrade's fanciest casino.
Until last week, Mr. Milosevic used his control of local television to portray Mr. Karadzic as a noble hero, and his after-hours habits were a taboo topic. Almost overnight, following a political dispute between the two, newscasters launched a campaign of merciless vilification of Mr. Karadzic and even his relatives. Viewers who formerly knew nothing about his gambling now even know the amount he is said to have lost at the tables: $200,000. Mr. Milosevic clearly had him in mind when he warned Bosnian Serbs recently not to throw away their futures "like a drunken poker player."
"Gangsterism and criminality are so rampant here that we are now like some Latin American country, Paraguay perhaps," mused one Serbian official. "But it isn't just the criminal aspect that is overwhelming our society. There is a drifting away from reality into a bizarre kind of fantasy world, like the world in Garcia Marquez novels."
 
Like Argentina?
 Predrag Simic, who directs a foreign affairs research institute in Belgrade, also sought to compare life in Serbia to the Latin American tradition of magic realism. "People here are willing to believe absolutely anything, the wilder the better," Mr. Simic said. "We drift along in a dream world that is like something you expect from a place like Argentina."
By quirk of history, Serbia is falling into this unreal world just as many Latin American lands are emerging from it. Paraguay, for example, appears to be making a genuine transition from thuggish dictatorship to democracy. And even Argentina seems to be shedding its half-century-old infatuations and emerging as a modern state ruled by rationalism.
"Almost everyone here has accepted the national illusion that this is a small heroic country which is being horribly and unfairly victimized," said a European diplomat posted in Belgrade. "It is a phenomenon that can be better understood by psychoanalysts than by politicians."

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); RELIGION (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); ROBBERY (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); CEMETERIES (64%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



428 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Japan Asks: Who Dispatched Us to This Hell, Anyway?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
CAPTAIN SHIKAUCHI of the Japanese Self-Defense Forces knew what to do back in February when the United Nations convoy he was leading was attacked by a vicious band of Khmer Rouge rebels along Cambodia's border with Thailand. As the dubious hero of a popular adult comic book called "P.K.O." (for "Peace Keeping Operation"), he dutifully radioed to Phnom Penh for instructions. Then, waving aside objections from a pesky Japanese television reporter who reminded him that Japan's Constitution renounces war, he ordered his troops to return the fire, killing hundreds of his attackers.
"We are simply obeying the orders of the people, and of the United Nations," the muscular cartoon captain declared to the cameras after the firefight was over. Anyway, he demanded to know as he stood in the Cambodian jungle, "Who dispatched us to this hell?" 
 For the last two weeks, as Japanese television viewers have watched in shock, the real-life equivalents of Captain Shikauchi have been asking the same question of their national leaders. Only three months after the P.K.O. comic book hit the newsstands, two of the more than 700 Japanese now working in Cambodia have been killed -- one as the Khmer Rouge attacked a convoy near the Thai border.
But this time there was no shooting back. The Japanese civilian police working in the region, all volunteers, carried no guns at all. In plaintive calls on satellite phones back to Tokyo, they complained that local bandits were stealing all their food and water, and that the United Nations had no reliable way of resupplying them. When the Japanese Government tried to get them recalled to Phnom Penh, the United Nations commanders in Cambodia angrily told them to stay at their posts.
In short, Japan's first quasi-military foray abroad since the end of World War II is hardly an adventure-writer's dream. The deaths and other Japanese casualties, while small by the standards of other nations, have prompted calls for the Government to pull out before bigger disaster strikes -- which seems inevitable. Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, his Government clearly viewing Cambodia as a Bosnia-sized crisis, declared last week that Japan would stick it out at least through elections to be held May 23 to 28. "That is the kind of international contribution that is expected of us," he said.
Cambodia is serving as an elaborate shadow play for Japan and its neighbors as they stumble toward a new set of power relationships as messy as the arguments over whether America or Europe will take the lead in the Balkans. In Tokyo, Cambodia is being viewed as a taste of things to come if Japan gets serious about amending its Constitution's famous Article IX, the "peace clause" that Japan interprets, at least for now, as requiring it to remain a bit player in U.N. peacekeeping -- staying far from the line of fire and, in theory at least, returning home when cease-fires break down. (Japanese leaders say the cease-fire holds in Cambodia, despite almost daily incidents of violence.)
 
A Traditional Reluctance
 Government officials say they are dragging along a reluctant and instinctively isolationist public, getting it accustomed to the human sacrifices that are deliberately never discussed when Japanese politicians give earnest speeches about Japan taking a political role in the world "commensurate with our economic power."
"You may think that we are overreacting to these two deaths," a senior Foreign Ministry official said. "But I hope you understand that this is the first case since 1945 of Japanese troops being sent abroad. And we have to move very cautiously. If we fail, it will take years to dispatch them elsewhere."
Perhaps most striking as Japan wavers over what to do is the almost amused reaction of its Asian neighbors, who hint that Japan is proving itself unready for the leader-of-Asia mantle it covets. Last year many of those countries denounced Japan's authorization of the deployment to Cambodia as a dangerous first taste of forbidden fruit. Lee Kuan Yew, the former Prime Minister of Singapore, likened the idea of sending the Japanese military abroad again to giving liquor candies to an alcoholic; his biggest worry, he said, was that one morning while shaving he would look out his window and again see Japanese warships flying the Hinomaru flag in Singapore's harbor.
But last week Mr. Lee's successor, Goh Chok Tong, was among the first to suggest that a withdrawal would mean "Japan will have decided not to play an international role." Mr. Goh added that "Japan's ambiguity reflects the profound insecurity with which it regards the post-cold war world," and he prescribed the couch. "It would be helpful if Tokyo discusses even its own uncertainties with its neighbors and other countries in the region, and works with them to define its role."
In fact, talking openly still seems to be one of the last things the Government feels it can afford to do. For 50 years Japanese leaders have been trained never to talk about "strategic interests" or even national ideals; no wonder they grew fond of checkbook diplomacy. As a result, it would be "suicidal," one of Mr. Miyazawa's aides suggested last week, to explain Japan's peacekeeping presence in the idealistic terms that an American or European leader might use: "We all benefit from peace and prosperity in Asia, so as the richest and most stable nation in the region we have a responsibility to take the lead in bringing democracy and prosperity to Cambodia, even at the cost of many Japanese lives."
That simply doesn't work in Japan, where it is always smart politics to portray the country as being forced into a policy by outside powers. To win passage of the peacekeeping bill last year, the Government wove an elaborate fiction that its troops would somehow be walled off from the danger. Unfortunately, that can't be done in the four-way factional struggle in Cambodia. As one Foreign Ministry official noted dryly last week: "We neglected to send a copy of our Constitution to the Khmer Rouge."
The bigger problem the Government faces is what to do after the election. There is no national consensus for a continued role in Cambodia, and Mr. Miyazawa has never even defined Japan's national interests in the region. Instead, his Government has justified it primarily on the basis of fulfilling foreign expectations. Not surprisingly, there is already an undercurrent of resentment against foreign pressure (read American pressure), that is once again perceived as pushing the Japanese faster than they want to go.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (98%); JAPAN (97%); THAILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA; JAPAN CAMBODIA (98%); JAPAN (97%); THAILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CAMBODIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WRITERS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



429 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
What Does Europe Want?

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: BRUSSELS

 BODY:
WHAT does Europe want? The question hung in the air from Washington to Sarajevo last week. The answer, paradoxically, is stronger American leadership.
How could this be, in a week when European Community foreign ministers rejected Clinton Administration proposals for bombing Serbian military targets in Bosnia and Herzegovina and arming the Muslims there, at the same time as military and civilian officials of the NATO alliance were saying they urgently needed United States leadership to find a way to halt the cruel slaughter of Bosnian civilians? 
 Conflicting signals from Washington have left everybody confused. The American military establishment in Europe does not know what the President will finally ask it to do. American commanders have worked out contingency plans for bombing Serbian military targets and for taking part in peacekeeping missions, they say, but not because anyone in Washington has ordered them to.
It is arguably not Europe's irresolution on Bosnia, but Washington's that has led to the latest trans-Atlantic crisis.
 
No Continental Cohesion

 
 Europe has an excuse for division. As one European Community official facetiously put it, the United States exists, but "Europe" does not. Geographically undefined in the 1957 Treaty of Rome that established it, the European Community is a trading bloc without internal tariff barriers. Its members have only aspirations to act as one, military and politically. The United States has been a Federal state for two centuries.
As such, it can make clear decisions on foreign policy and bring its full weight to bear on its European allies to support them, if it chooses to. Up to now, in Bosnia, it has not done so convincingly. Secretary of State Warren Christopher came to the allies with a plan to threaten limited air strikes against Bosnian Serb military targets that would allow the Muslims to rearm themselves. Even some of his own senior military officials in Europe regarded the plan as ill considered and impractical, although the President said Friday it was still on the table.
Several European military and civilian authorities said privately last week that American advice on strategy in the Balkans would be better grounded in reality, and therefore taken more seriously, if the United States had a sizable ground force commitment to United Nations humanitarian or peacekeeping missions already in the Balkans, as both Britain and France do.
For most of the past 80 years, Americans have believed that American security and European stability were inextricably bound, re-learning the lesson painfully after the isolationism of the 1920's and 30's.
Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt before Bill Clinton were also not elected to save the world, and they also often had to sort through a babble of European voices. Like them, Mr. Clinton must decide what the Europeans are really trying to tell him -- in his case, whether "no" really means "yes" on Bosnia. His decision will have to depend mainly on his assessment of what the American interest is.
The NATO alliance -- the expression of American strategic interest in Europe and of the European need for American commitment -- explicitly recognized the link between European stability and global security in the post-cold war strategy that it adopted in 1991. "Risks to allied security are less likely to result from calculated aggression against the territory of the allies," it said, than from "the adverse consequences of instabilities that may arise from the serious economic, social and political difficulties, including ethnic rivalries and territorial disputes, which are faced by many countries in central and eastern Europe."
Ethnic cleansing and the other horrors of the war in the Balkans, which formally lies outside NATO's geographical boundaries, proved this assessment only too accurate. In late 1991, Europeans thought they could handle the problem themselves, and the Bush Administration mistakenly left it to them rather than to the alliance.
 
Containing the Conflict

 
 Both European and American civilian and military officials share a common interest: stopping the slaughter of civilians in Bosnia and preventing similar tragedies from spreading elsewhere in the Balkans. But to many Europeans, the Bosnian Muslims, while the war's main victims, are as guilty of past atrocities as Serbs or Croats, and they also fear that if the West appears to support them by lifting the arms embargo, the Russians will want to send supplies to the Serbs, escalating the conflict.
The problem is that NATO has failed up to now to be relevant to the conflict, a failure acknowledged by American and European officials alike. Many of them say it might not have occurred if the United States had become involved earlier and taken a stronger leadership role before the conflict intensified. Unless the United States gives NATO clear leadership now, many alliance officers say, the alliance will lose credibility at a time when mounting instability all over the former Communist world seems to make it more needed than ever.
Some are beginning to suggest that the best alliance strategy would be to send in troops to protect civilians in safe areas, and help the United Nations insure that no more arms get into Bosnia from Serbia, accepting President Slobodan Milosevic's invitation to send in a monitoring force along the border, quarantining a conflict that only the combatants can end.
Whatever decisions are made, the American President's will be the crucial one, and he will have been brought to it by American moral and ethical sensibilities. More strongly than most Europeans, Americans feel that it is unacceptable to stand by and just watch the slaughter.
The ideal of European unity, a vivid dream when European Community leaders agreed on a treaty on a common currency and a unified foreign and security policy in Maastricht at the end of 1991, has also been seriously corroded by the consequences of failure in Bosnia.
The Maastricht treaty's ambitious design also faces a crucial test this week in Denmark, whose voters rejected it narrowly in a referendum last June and will have another one on Tuesday. If they reject it again, the treaty will die. The British House of Commons would then almost surely refuse to ratify it, and the treaty must be ratified by all 12 community member states to go into effect. And even if the Danes approve, many people doubt whether monetary union will ever happen. Public sentiment in Germany, racked by a recession that is a direct consequence of miscalibrated economic and monetary policies after unification in 1990, is heavily against giving up the Deutschmark.
Europe is not united, except at times in opposition to American attempts to galvanize it into common action. But this is only another demonstration of how much Europe depends on the United States for strong leadership. It fails usually when that leadership is not strong enough.
Whatever they seem to be saying in public, Europeans -- including the French -- admit in private that they need the United States and the alliance it leads now more than ever.

GRAPHIC: Photo: French troops, who are among the Europeans serving in Bosnia as United Nations peacekeepers, standing for review during a ceremony at the Sarajevo airport. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (51%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RELIGION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (66%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



430 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Lawbreakers We Have Known and Loved

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
THEY walk where they're not supposed to walk. They climb where climbing is not allowed. They jump where they shouldn't jump, and, yes, they drive trains they have no business driving.
They are the daring and endearing fools who rush in where angels fear to tread, and when they do, it is generally the angels who lead the applause. 
 For their feats, as illegal as they are daring, almost invariably capture the collective imagination of a generally law-abiding population, which cheers their defiance of the laws of gravity and established authority even as the authorities are clearing their throats and filing criminal charges.
The details aren't important. It hardly matters whether they're leading the New York police on a 10-mile chase in a hot air balloon, parachuting into Shea Stadium -- or taking the A train out for a spin.
That was more or less the case last week when word got around that one Keron Thomas, a 16-year-old Trinidad-born train buff from Brooklyn, had walked into a Transit Authority terminal in upper Manhattan the previous Saturday, nodded to dispatchers and blithely driven off with a New York City subway train.
By the time the police arrested him several days later, Mr. Thomas seemed well on his way to becoming as much a local hero as George Willig and Philippe Petit were before him, and Adie Walford was before them.
It was Mr. Walford who took a stroll across the Williamsburgh Bridge on June 1, 1901, when the bridge was no more than a few thin cables stretched across the East River. He had been long forgotten by the time Philippe Petit, a French high-wire artist, stretched a tight rope between the towers of the World Trade Center on Aug. 7, 1974, and walked from one to the other, turning the Trade Center into an icon of derring-do.
On July 22, 1975, Owen J. Quinn, an unemployed construction worker, parachuted off the North Tower, and on May 26, 1977, George Willig, a mountain climber, scaled the South Tower, assisted in his preparations by Ronald DeGiovanni, who had delighted New Yorkers six months earlier by riding a hot air balloon from Staten Island to Queens by way of Lower Manhattan.
Why are the Walfords and the Willigs of the world so lionized? Dr. Joyce Brothers, the psychologist whose public practice gives her special insights into public emotions, didn't have to consult her files. "We are tickled to death," she said. "They are fulfilling our own Walter Mitty dreams. Everybody has fantasies. They actually go out and do them."
 
The Lure of the Illicit
 A key appeal of such feats, Dr. Brothers said, is that they are illicit as well as daring. Skydivers, for example, have been employed for years to help promote sporting events, and nobody paid much attention when parachutists were engaged to help celebrate the 1986 Little League World Series in Williamsport, Pa. But two months later, when Michael Sergio made a distinctly unscheduled parachute landing in the Shea Stadium infield during the first inning of Game 6 of the World Series, it was an immediate sensation.
Dr. Brothers sees a little vicarious fantasy larceny in us all. "We root for them," she said, "because our lives are filled with rules, and petty bureaucrats are always finding ways to make things more difficult for us."
After an initial bluster, the bureaucrats generally back down. When Mr. Willig completed his climb, he was arrested and sued for $250,000 to cover the city's cost and trouble. Two days later he was given a hero's welcome at City Hall by Mayor Abraham D. Beame, who made clear that he had not authorized the suit, which was settled for $1.10, a penny for each of the tower's 110 stories.
Whether Mr. Thomas is treated so gently remains to be seen. If convicted of all charges that have been lodged against him, including reckless endangerment, he could spend more than seven years in prison.
While such a sentence seems unlikely, not everyone sees him as a hero, even though his adventure seems certain to be memorialized in a television movie. Parachuting off a skyscraper to a deserted street is one thing. Risking the lives of thousands of subway passengers is something else again, even though the evidence would suggest that the passengers on Mr. Thomas's A train were in capable hands. Until he took a curve faster than the 20-mile speed limit and tripped the automatic brakes, Mr. Thomas, who was just two stops from the end of line, had driven 45 miles without incident and made 85 smooth stops, picking up and dropping off 2,000 passengers during the three-and-a-half hour run. Indeed, there were those who expressed admiration for him precisely because he was so dedicated in his obsession with subway trains that he had pored over the official operator's manual and assembled his own set of operating tools.
And while there are those who believe he belongs in jail, a common reaction to his adventure was that he should be hired by the Transit Authority and given full motorman's training. Given that, Dr. Brothers said that she would not hesitate to ride a train driven by the young man, who, she suggested, has given evidence of another rare and admired quality shared by popular heroes.
"He cares," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keron Thomas, who went joyriding in an A train, after his arrest. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SUBWAYS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CLIMBING (89%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); SKYDIVING (89%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); ARRESTS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR; THOMAS, KERON MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



431 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Health Care's Fever: Not So High to Some

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
WITH medical bills hogging one dollar in eight of Americans' income, just about everybody knows there is a cost crisis in health care. But could just about everybody, including the first President to focus like a laser beam on health care reform, be wrong? Could rapidly rising outlays be a sign of the rational will of a rich society to take advantage of spectacular, if very expensive, advances in medical technology?
That remains a minority view in the ripening debate over health care reform. But a striking number of economists do think that the severity of the medical-cost illness has been exaggerated. "There's a problem with health care costs, not a crisis," says Burton Weisbrod of Northwestern University. While he and others acknowledge that spending cannot continue to rise indefinitely two or three times as fast as incomes, they worry that cost containment will retard technology that promises enormous dividends in the quality of life. 
 Everybody agrees that the market for health care can't be relied on to generate the most value for the least cost. Sellers need not compete on quality because the consumers rarely understand what they are buying. Nor do they compete on price: "With insurance covering 90 percent of the bill," says Martin Feldstein of Harvard University, "it's not surprising that people treat health care as if it were free."
There is, in fact, solid evidence that overuse of health care is the rule, not the exception. In the late 1970's, the Rand Corporation randomly assigned volunteers to alternative insurance plans. Families required to absorb the first $1,000 a year of their medical costs spent 40 percent less on medical care than those with no insurance deductible, and with "negligible" effects on health.
This failure of the market to link cost to value may well account for the fact that America spends at least one-third more on health care than Canada or Germany. And it seems to be fueling the Administration's optimism that universal insurance coverage can eventually be underwritten from money now spent on services that few would willingly pay for directly from their own pockets.
 
Inflated Figures
 American spending, both per person and as a percentage of national income, is exceptionally high by any standard. But Joseph Newhouse, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, draws an important distinction between the level of health care spending and its rate of growth. The American rate of growth shows no particular trend over the last half century, suggesting that if there is a crisis in costs it is a very old one indeed. What's more, the rate of growth of spending is only a bit above average for advanced economies.
The common explanation for soaring medical outlays, seemingly validated by Government statistics, is what President Clinton occasionally calls "price-gouging." From 1980 to 1990, for example, the medical-care component of the Consumer Price Index rose almost twice as fast as the overall index.
But few knowledgeable economists take this calculation seriously. The statistics gatherers compile the medical index from list prices that are little more than the benchmark for bargaining between insurers and providers. One study found that California hospitals raised their official prices by 70 percent from 1983 to 1988, but after accounting for discounts, the actual increase was closer to 40 percent.
More confounding still, the measurers ignore key productivity improvements: a day in the hospital is still counted as a day in the hospital, though it now takes, say, half as many days to complete treatment for appendicitis as it did in the 1950's.
Even if these statistical glitches were fixed, measurement would be dogged by the difficulty of accounting for quality. This is a general issue when everything from car radios to microwave dinners is getting better. But the problem is particularly acute with health care, where the change is rapid and the benefits are conceptually difficult to quantify.
"If you had $10,000 to spend on medical care, which would you rather buy," asks Mr. Weisbrod, "1960's care at 1960's prices, or 1990's care at 1990's prices?" The fact that most people would hesitate to answer makes the overall inflation figure problematic at best.
If inflation is not the culprit, what is? Mr. Newhouse acknowledges that a wide variety of factors, everything from the aging of the population to the spread of insurance to the scourge of malpractice, have played a role. But at least half the increase in outlays, he reckons, has gone into new technology.
 
Someone Else's Money
 Henry Aaron, an economist at the Brookings Institution, finds this a distinction without much difference. As with other medical decisions, consumers rarely have to plunk down their own money to choose new technology, he says. And since insurers have been inclined to pay for every new drug and procedure that generates any benefit whatsoever, reform is needed to control technology creep as well as to clean up embedded waste. At the very least, he argues, broad caps on spending would "promote a debate over technology and a demand for information."
Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton economist, dismisses the practical consequences of such a debate. He notes that other affluent economies, which have already socialized decisions about who is entitled to kidney transplants and who gets first crack at the M.R.I. scanner, are coping with roughly the same rates of cost increases as America. "I don't believe for a minute," he says, that Americans would choose to deprive themselves.
But Mr. Weisbrod is less sanguine. He worries that health care reforms that are sold as a means of containing costs will create a bias against new technology that is no less damaging than the current bias in its favor. And certainly there are grounds for believing that cost containment will become the central focus of reform.
While most economists agree that the employer-financed health insurance actually comes out of net pay, business does not see it that way. Sky-high health-care premiums figure prominently in conventional wisdom about why America can't compete in world markets. Corporate America is thus pressing for caps on total spending.
No less important, cost containment is seen as the key to success in the war on the budget deficit. "We are kidding each other," President-elect Clinton said at the economic summit meeting last December, "if we think ... we can get control of this budget if you don't do something about health care."
But the cure may not prove much better than the disease. Mr. Aaron concedes that the pressure to contain costs is likely to create a two-tier medical system, if only because it is not the American way to deny individuals the right to buy what they are willing to pay for.
It is possible that everyone will get treatment as good as that now received by the well-insured. A small minority who could afford exotic technology and chose to buy it would pay their own way. But it is also possible that skeptics like Representative Pete Stark of California are right -- that while decent care would be universally available under managed competition, the only way to save big bucks would be to dribble it out on terms unacceptable to the middle class. The majority would thus opt for supplemental private insurance that gave buyers access to the physicians and treatments they expected, and in timely fashion.
This second scenario would mean acceptable care for more people at lower cost than the hodgepodge of public and private efforts today. But it is hardly the vision of an egalitarian health care system that is driving Bill Clinton to bet his Presidency on reform.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "To Health, From Wealth" compares health care costs to the increase in the gross domestic product from '29 to '90 (Joseph Newhouse, Harvard University); the percentage of gross domestic product spent on health care in '60 and '91 in the U.S. and Europe (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; RESEARCH HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); STATISTICS (70%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



432 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Making His Way Out of the Muddle He Made

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS President Clinton strolled onto the White House South Lawn Friday morning for an education awards ceremony, he was greeted by the ruffles and flourishes of the Marine Band. The day was sunny, the House Ways and Means committee had just passed his tax package and all seemed well at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
"The Marine Band has been in especially fine form this morning," the President remarked cheerily. "I woke up to them. I went jogging to them. I almost felt like a President this morning, for sure." 
 It was a long time coming, this sense of comfort. The President has seemed more battered than confident recently. His economic package had suffered from what Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen delicately called a "diffusion of the objective," and the President is now determined to regain his footing.
Recognizing that their pitch has lacked an organized theme, the members of Bill Clinton's political brain trust have sketched out a new approach for the President that they hope will restore his standing as a leader with a clear sense of what he was elected to do.
"Out in the real world, people know that things are related, that things are integrated," said Paul Begala, a political consultant who advises the President. "In Washington, one of the problems is that things are broken down into their component parts. Things are considered in a vacuum, not in context."
Mr. Clinton plans to knit the strands back together, undertaking three tasks that he all but ignored during the first weeks of his Administration: traveling outside of Washington, hammering away at a single theme and -- reporters beware -- wooing the press.
When Mr. Clinton and his Vice President Al Gore decided to package their campaign promises last year and publish "Putting People First," a modest little paperback, everything seemed so simple.
The two Southern baby-boomers had hit on a simple approach, a simple package and an attractive message. Little did they know how messy it would all become.
The famously focused Clinton campaign quickly evolved into the famously scattered Clinton Administration. All of the ideas detailed so neatly in the campaign came across to Americans as an unwieldy bunch of ambitious ideas laden with suspicious new taxes.
Mr. Bentsen, in a meeting with reporters, acknowledged as much late last week.
"For the past few weeks, you might not have known that we had a four-year $500 billion deficit reduction up at Ways and Means," he said. "You'd think all we were going through was a stack of unrelated bills. But the fact is we were building, one item at a time, a deficit reduction package to change the course of our economy."
Mr. Clinton scored an unalloyed victory when the House committee passed his tax package virtually intact. The party-line vote smoothed the way for a measure that would increase taxes for higher income Social Security recipients and wealthier individuals and energy users and increase tax breaks for the working poor.
Administration officials were happy to bask in the glow of their success and even admit to the mistakes they made along the way. They have confessed to fuzziness of purpose, an extended bout of hubris and a fundamental misunderstanding of the balance of power between the opposite ends of Pennsylvania Avenue.
Mr. Clinton and his advisers always saw the common thread that ran through the President's proposals. To them, campaign finance and welfare and health care and urban development grants and college tuition aid and immunization and energy taxes all seemed naturally linked.
But to many outside the White House, the list of Administration goals looked like the worries of the world crammed into a barrel.
When the President announced last week that he would support a measure to create a deficit trust fund to receive all new tax revenues, he showed that he was catching on. It was a symbolic statement, but in the attention it paid to public perception, it was a telling one.
"Until we can prove that we have the discipline to control our budget, I don't think we'll have the elbow room necessary to have the kind of targeted investments we need," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference on Friday.
 
Road Warrior
 Even the measure's sponsors were unprepared for the Presidential endorsement, which was immediately denounced by Republicans as a gimmick. But White House officials were sanguine about the criticism. They wanted a weapon to take on the road when the President travels to California this week, and they got one.
By the end of the week, the White House had produced three senior officials -- Mr. Bentsen, budget director Leon Panetta and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, who heads the Council of Economic Advisers -- to emphasize the good news.
In the Rose Garden on Friday, Mr. Clinton followed through on the strategy he has devised with his advisers to drive his point home.
On his swing through Illinois, Ohio, New Mexico and California, he will try to build support for his economic policies. At home, he will send muted warnings to Congress.
"We have to win inside by playing outside," one of his advisers said.
But even as the President struggles for discipline, he has had trouble concealing his exasperation when things do not go his way.
"On one day people say, 'He's trying to do too much, he's pushing too hard, he wants too much change,' and then on the other day says, 'Well, he's really not pushing very hard,' " he told reporters, with more than a hint of pique. "I think we're getting good results."
"I love the way all our victories are discounted," his spokesman, George Stephanopoulos, said later.
Yet Mr. Clinton was pleased with the results of the news conference and with his week, his aides said later. The White House had intended to take advantage of a lull in activities in Bosnia to make news only about the economy, no matter what else he was asked.
But the President remains puzzled about some basic vagaries of Washington political life. Admitting error does not come easily to him, and he has learned the hard way that striking out at those who oppose him is often ill-advised.
"There is a permanent government here, but there's also a permanent political culture," he told The Washington Post in an interview published Friday. "And I have to learn -- it is my job as President to make the most of that instead of let it make the most of me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton promoting his budget plan and domestic agenda in Cleveland last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



433 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: In Zaire, Starvation Is Growing in a Wealthy Land

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KINSHASA, Zaire

 BODY:
In a fly-infested feeding center on the outskirts of Kinshasa, nearly 200 children gathered listlessly around a huge steaming bowl of milky gruel. This was the only meal of the day for some, and others were eating for the first time in days.
There was no laughter or play. Some of the children, no more than tiny skeletons with the faces of emaciated old men, were too weak to move. Relief officials predicted that at least 10 percent of the children would soon die of hunger. 
 Until recent months, severe malnutrition and starvation on this scale were virtually unheard of in Kinshasa, the capital of this central African country and a densely packed river port city of nearly five million people.
 
Unparalleled Since the 1960's
 "We haven't seen this amount of hunger in West Africa since the Biafran war in Nigeria during the 1960's," said Wayne King, the chief officer for the United States Agency for International Development here, who has worked in Africa for 20 years.
A State Department cable in March, in what it called a conservative estimate, said at least 5.2 percent of Zairians, or nearly 1.8 million people, were suffering from "acute malnutrition." The cable recommended that the United States provide emergency short-term food assistance, warning that a delay could make any aid "too little too late."
In truth, the acute food problems facing Zaire appear self-inflicted, the result of nearly 30 years of Government corruption and economic ineptitude. Now they have become so severe that they are bending society with their pressure.
"It's always been a struggle to live here, but things have never been this bad," said Zanga Yumbi, a local Red Cross official.
In many families, she said, food is so scarce that girls are fed one day and boys the next.
Some children have been abandoned to die, an extremely rare practice in a society where the extended family system, an informal network of blood ties, often embraces hundreds of people. There were always aunts, uncles or cousins willing to provide housing and food for children whose parents, for whatever reason, could no longer take care of them.
But for the first time, diplomats, relief officials and missionaries said, the level of deprivation is so severe and pervasive that even close relatives are reluctant to take in ailing or needy children, and a growing number of parents have been forced to seek help beyond the traditional family connections.
 
Parents Give Up Hope
 Musongi-Mpwono Munol, the director of the Kizito-Kingabwa Health Center, said nearly 60 percent of the children there had been abandoned -- left to the care of relief organizations and missionaries -- because their parents could no longer afford to feed them.
"Many people simply don't have the ability to support all their children anymore, so they are making very difficult choices," said Sister Tacita Laranang, a Roman Catholic nun who works at St. Kizito's feeding center.
St. Kizito is one of nearly 30 centers that Doctors Without Borders, a European relief organization, has opened in the last year. Relief organizations that have stepped in receive virtually no assistance from Zaire's troubled Government.
And it is not only the children who are suffering. Mrs. Yumbi of the Red Cross said that early in May, an old and sickly woman dressed in rags had been abandoned at the doorstep of a local church. "This would have never happened even five years ago," Mrs. Yumbi said.
Kinshasa's deprivation is a poverty that somehow seems a terrible mistake.
The food shortages stem not from drought, which devastated food production in Ethiopia in the mid-1980's and more recently in Zimbabwe, Mozambique and other countries in southern Africa for much of the last two years. Nor do the shortages result from violent ethnic and territorial disputes, as in Somalia or the Sudan.
 
Food and Resources Plentiful
 Indeed, food is relatively plentiful in Kinshasa's central market, and north of Kinshasa stretches an area with more than enough arable land to feed the country's 40 million people.
Moreover, Zaire is a leading copper and cobalt producer, the world's largest supplier of industrial diamonds, rich in coffee, timber, palm oil and other agricultural exports, and it also has vast reserves of hydroelectric power.
At the top of this country blessed with abundant natural resources and cursed by starvation is one of the world's richest men. Mobutu Sese Seko, the country's autocratic leader for 28 years, has a personal fortune estimated at $4 billion, say African and Western diplomats as well as numerous scholars on Zaire.
"In our view, Zaire is not faced with a food shortage per se, but rather an acute food access problem," concluded a recent study by Catholic Relief Services, a group based in the United States.
To be sure, chronic malnutrition has long existed in Kinshasa, but the problem has steadily worsened in recent years. The problem became a crisis with rioting in September 1991, when disgruntled soldiers seeking back pay went on a rampage, looting homes and shops and setting off a wave of violence that left dozens dead. Belgium, the former colonial ruler of Zaire, and France deployed troops to help evacuate 30,000 foreigners, mostly Europeans, and to maintain order.
 
Rioting by Soldiers Repeated
 Rioting erupted again in February when soldiers discovered that the new five-million-zaire bank notes used to pay them were impossible to spend. Heavily armed soldiers seized control of the Parliament building and held several hundred lawmakers hostage, demanding that they order local merchants to accept the new bank notes. Hundreds, including the French Ambassador, were killed.
Since then, the economic collapse has been staggering. Many of the foreigners held vital technical and managerial positions -- jobs that most African and Western diplomats believe that Zairians, for now, are incapable of filling. More broadly, Zairian businesses dependent on imported materials, spare parts or machines have faced sharp reductions in production and earnings and laid off tens of thousands of workers.
As a result, according to figures provided by the United States Embassy here, before the 1991 riots, unemployment stood at nearly 40 percent, a figure almost unheard of even among Africa's poorest cities.
The unemployment rate has continued to rise and is now estimated at 80 percent. Zaire's continuing power struggle between Mr. Mobutu and leaders of the opposition has virtually paralyzed most governmental institutions. Compounding the misery, the annual inflation rate is now about 4,400 percent, partly because of a huge budget deficit that developed after the Government abandoned a broad range of belt-tightening measures devised by the International Monetary Fund in early 1990, and instead increased spending.
Since then, Zaire has been declared "non-cooperating" by the monetary fund, and a decision to expel it from the world's leading governmental lending organization is believed to be imminent.
 
Migration to City Slows
 An enigma that strikes many Western analysts visiting or living in Zaire is why the people appear to tolerate conditions that clearly should produce deep discontent. Despite the economic deprivation of recent years -- hyperinflation and the lack of jobs and housing -- there has been a steady migration of people into the city.
But even that may be changing, said Martine Dedeur Warder, a nutritionist with Doctors Without Borders. For one thing, prices for basic food items have become so high here that even the relatively well-to-do are struggling. Mid-level civil service workers, for example, earn about $25 a month, yet a 110-pound sack of corn flour -- enough to feed a family of four for about a week -- costs about $50. To make matters worse, she said, most Government employees have not been paid for at least four months.
As a result, Miss Dedeur Warder said, for the first time in recent memory, migration from the villages to the city appears to be slowing, and perhaps even reversing.
"People are leaving the city and returning to the bush because they understand there's no food, there are no jobs and there's no money here," she said. "Leaving Kinshasa is a drastic step for many Zairians, but it's one of the few solutions for stopping the misery here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Acute food shortages have hit Zaire as the result of Government corruption and economic ineptitude. People waited outside a feeding center run by Doctors Without Borders, a Belgian relief organization. (Kenneth B. Noble/The New York Times)
 
Map of Zaire, indicating Kinshasa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (90%); 

COMPANY: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (90%); 

SUBJECT: FAMINE; FOREIGN AID; ETHICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOOD MALNUTRITION (90%); STARVATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FAMINE (76%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ETHICS (64%); TRENDS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



434 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: On Air in Los Angeles, A (Rare) Serious Voice

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 15

 BODY:
In the wasteland that is broadcast journalism in Southern California -- in which reality is nightly distorted through a prism of high-speed car chases, rapes and drive-by shootings -- Warren Olney stands out like a lush oasis.
With a deep steady baritone that exudes both authority and impartiality, the veteran television reporter has turned a small cramped public-radio studio in a basement at Santa Monica College into the main broadcast forum for serious issues in the troubled Los Angeles area. 
 At a time when Southern California is struggling through its worst economic slump since the Depression, when Los Angeles is troubled by social and racial ills and is electing a mayor, these issues are virtually ignored by the commercial television news outlets -- particularly the three stations owned by major networks. The vacuum has been filled by Mr. Olney's hourlong program, "Which Way, L.A.?," broadcast weekday evenings on KCRW-FM and closely monitored in government, business and sometimes even among street gang members, whom he finds "astonishingly articulate, passionate, very sympathetic, oddly."
Each day at 1 P.M., five to eight guests talk live by telephone. Sitting in shirt sleeves at an octagonal table, the tall, trim 55-year-old Mr. Olney deftly leads them through discussions of matters like criminal justice, immigration, mayoral politics, military conversion, racism, education and gangs. Listeners are invited to join by phone. The program is rebroadcast at 7 P.M.
 
Longtime Television Reporter
 It is a long way from the days when Mr. Olney, a fourth-generation Californian whose great-grandfather was Mayor of Oakland, worked as reporter for all three of the network-owned stations in Los Angeles -- KCBS, KNBC and KABC -- as well as anchor for the independent KCOP. After 22 years in television, he quit the medium a year and a half ago.
"Television news was a serious enterprise once," he said recently, looking up through wire-rim glasses from a cluttered desk before air time. "The traditions observed were journalistic traditions. But now the shows are format-driven with calls for very brief stories.
"There is a minimum of production investment in trying to make complex issues important to a mass audience -- at a time when the need is greatest. Management has allowed a deterioration of standards of journalism to below minimal. Producers think politics is dull, so instead of trying to make interesting what they know is important, they abdicate responsibility for detailed coverage of politics and government."
Fairly typical of the Olney program was the April 27 installment, which discussed that night's "Frontline," a harsh documentary on Los Angeles and race relations.
 
Debating Racial Problems
 The guests were Kevin Starr, professor of urban and regional planning at the University of Southern California; Tim Rutten, an editorial writer at The Los Angeles Times; Sue Horton, assistant professor of journalism at U.S.C.; Susan Anderson, a black leader in the city; Donna Foote, an urban reporter for Newsweek here, and Ruben Martinez, a senior editor at the L.A. Weekly.
They debated Los Angeles's racial cauldron, and whether a national media dominated by "Frontline" and other Eastern-based organizations tended to give a distorted, simplistic view of this complex city.
"Olney offers far and away the most intelligent broadcast discourse in all of L.A. on matters of great public interest," said Joel Bellman, press deputy to Ed Edelman, chairman of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors.
"Which Way, L.A.?" began modestly a year ago just after the riots that tore the city apart after the verdicts in the first trial of police officers in the beating of Rodney G. King. Before that, Ruth Hirschman, general manager at KCRW since 1978, had steered away from local news, catering to an elite, mostly white audience that was more interested in the Soviet Union, Latin America and the Middle East than in Sacramento and South-Central Los Angeles.
 
A New Awareness
 Suddenly, Ms. Hirschman said, "the whole world understood something phenomenal was happening here which never happened before; there was an awareness that we were all in a caldron, something that sophisticated people did not think about before."
She turned to Mr. Olney, an acquaintance, because he had the "background, temperament, connections and a great Rolodex in his head." What was intended to be a monthlong temporary forum has now evolved into a permanent program that, according to Arbitron, has about 136,000 daily listeners, 10 percent to 15 percent above average for KCRW. Surveys show that about one-third of listeners are black and Hispanic, unusual for public radio. "We really set out to bring people from those communities on the air, to give them a hearing," Mr. Olney said.
The television critic for The Los Angeles Times, Howard Rosenberg, recently measured the news output of local commercial television on a typical Monday night. He found that crime and other "negative news" took up the bulk of time not devoted to happy talk, sports and weather. KCBS (Channel 2), for example, devoted 11 of 11 1/2 minutes of a recent report to crime, mainly to an attempted carjacking in Beverly Hills, and, as usual, nothing about the mayor's race.
 
30 Seconds of Thanks
 Meanwhile, KNBC (Channel 4) used 24 of its 27 minutes of news for negative news, not including an endless half minute in which the announcer, Colleen Williams, thanked her station colleagues for a baby shower.
Mr. Olney has theories to explain this avoidance of significant news. Partly, he says, it has to do with the sprawl of the Los Angeles region, in which the City of Los Angeles is only one of scores of communities in the television market. "That becomes a handy excuse for not doing anything," he said.
Asked for comment, the news directors of KCBS, KNBC and KABC did not return telephone calls.
There are other forums for serious issues here, including the Michael Jackson program on KABC-AM radio; "Life & Times," weekday evenings on KCET-TV, and a weekly political discussion run by Bill Rosendahl on Century Cable Television, seen in some parts of the region. But none have quite the regular impact and following that Mr. Olney's does.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren Olney doing his radio talk show, "Which Way, L.A.?" (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); GANGS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); MAYORS (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); WRITERS (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POLITICS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; OLNEY, WARREN

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



435 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: The 'Forgotten Borough' Makes Its Voice Heard

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Queens, the self-described "forgotten borough" that nearly broke John V. Lindsay, cemented Edward I. Koch's neoconservative coalition, and gave Rudolph W. Giuliani more votes than David N. Dinkins received from any single borough four years ago, is flexing its political muscles again.
Last week alone, Carol A. Gresser, the New York City Board of Education member appointed by Borough President Claire Shulman, was elected president of the board after earlier providing the pivotal vote to oust Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez. And Representative Thomas J. Manton, who doubles as the Queens Democratic leader, endorsed Mr. Dinkins for re-election and urged the Mayor's chief remaining threat to renomination, City Council President Andrew J. Stein, to quit the race. 
 Mr. Manton and Ms. Shulman were motivated by separate -- arguably, even conflicting -- agendas. But both moves reflect the growing influence of a borough that was never quite comfortable with joining Greater New York (indeed, Flushing voted against the 1898 consolidation), is again considering secession and has always been more politically and emotionally akin to the suburbs and the rest of America than to Manhattan.
While the Governor, the Assembly Speaker in Albany and the City Council Speaker are all from Queens, since 1898 no candidate born in Queens has been elected Mayor.
 
Ignore at Your Risk
 Still, said Edward Sadowsky, a former City Councilman and Board ofEducation member from Queens, "the borough does represent a sentiment that has to be taken into account and a point of view that you ignore at your own peril."
Fairly or unfairly Queens has for years served as a metaphor for the Archie Bunker brand of middle-class values that have also been associated with the city's least populous borough, Staten Island. Yet instead of being notable for its differences, Queens does embody an ideology that crosses the geographic and arbitrary political boundaries that separate the boroughs.
Writing in the latest edition of "City Journal," published by the Manhattan Institute, Frank J. Macchiarola, the former schools chancellor and now a law school dean, recalled that "outer borough New Yorkers can be found in Manhattan and Manhattan types can be found in the outer boroughs" -- though another barrier begins today, when Manhattan exclusively claims 212 as its own area code.
"Outer borough" values also cross racial lines in Queens. If Archie Bunker had been a real Queens resident rather than a television character, he probably would have retired to Florida by now after selling his one-family home to a middle-class black or Hispanic couple. In Queens, perhaps to a greater degree than any other major county in the country, blacks and whites have achieved statistical equity in median household income.
 
'Different Complexion'
 Last week Dennis Walcott, the newest member of the Board of Education, who happens to be from Queens and who also happens to be black, said he generally opposed policies of making condoms available in high schools without parental consent and of teaching children about gay and lesbian life styles before the sixth grade -- the very policies that persuaded Mrs. Gresser to vote against renewing Mr. Fernandez's contract. Mr. Walcott also happens to be Mr. Dinkins's appointee.
"People talk about Staten Island as being on some other universe," Mr. Sadowsky said, "but Queens does have a different complexion from the rest of the city. Even its black politicians are likely to be more conservative than those in Manhattan."
Queens, said Mr. Koch, "is the borough of moderation."
Until provoked, that is. Queens voters rebelled against Mr. Lindsay in 1969 over the city's failure to deliver services adequately -- most egregiously, its insufficent snow removal -- and its placement of a low-income housing project in middle-class Forest Hills. Mr. Lindsay lost the Republican primary and was outpolled in the general election by his Democratic and Republican rivals by almost 2-to-1 in Queens.
After defeating Mario M. Cuomo of Queens in the 1977 mayoral race, Mr. Koch, a Manhattan Congressman, consolidated his political appeal in the borough where he had first gained a footing by opposing the very same Forest Hills low-income housing project that was built only after Mr. Cuomo fashioned a compromise.
 
Returning the Favor
 In 1981, 1985 and even 1989, Queens returned the favor, providing Mr. Koch with margins he needed to counter liberal inroads elsewhere. Mr. Koch, in turn, forged an alliance with the Queens Democratic organization -- which, after it was implicated as the centerpiece of the municipal corruption scandals, tainted his administration.
But in the 1989 primary, according to an analysis by John H. Mollenkopf and his associates at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, as many as 17 percent of the voters in a white Catholic district in Richmond Hill strategically voted for Mr. Dinkins against Mr. Koch in the Democratic primary, mainly in order to remove him as an obstacle to Mr. Giuliani's election that November.
Mr. Giuliani received more than 284,000 votes in Queens to 190,000 for Mr. Dinkins, whose biggest total from any borough was the 277,000 he got in Brooklyn.
Those figures must have been gnawing at Mr. Manton, who had endorsed two other candidates before settling on Mr. Dinkins four years ago and who nearly lost to a Republican when he sought re-election to Congress last year.
Only two mayors since 1933 have hailed from outside Manhattan, and the others -- Mr. Lindsay, perhaps, excepted -- sought to contain the political quakes that occasionally erupted in Queens and reverberated all over the city.
Fiorello H. La Guardia actually spent his summers in College Point. Robert F. Wagner, recalled Edward N. Costikyan, a prominent lawyer and the former Manhattan Democratic leader, "never allowed Manhattan liberalism to override his sense of what was palatable in the other boroughs."
 
Low Poverty, High Income
 Walter L. McCaffrey, a Councilman who is loyal both to Mr. Manton and to Mr. Stein, said yesterday, "If the question is whether this is a resurgence by Queens, the answer is that it is a continuation."
By almost every measure, Queens is different. Poverty in Queens is below the national average. And while it is described as the most ethnically and racially diverse county in the country -- about one-third of the population is foreign-born -- it boasts the highest median household income among the four largest boroughs, the lowest unemployment rate and the fewest reported AIDS cases.
If any public official embodies the borough's middle-class homeowner mentality, it is Peter F. Vallone, the Council Speaker, although he maintains that the borough, while very important, is not unique.
"The majority of people in every borough feel that in some way Queens is reflecting what many people feel -- just that we in Queens never forgot it. The notion that every kid has sex and doesn't listen to their parents -- we don't know who they're talking about."
"An evolution has taken place," he added. "New York is catching up to the rest of the country. It is really mainstream and middle class."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Queens voters rebelled against Mayor John V. Lindsay, center, in 1969 over the city's failure to deliver services adequately -- most egregiously, its insufficent snow removal -- and its delivery of a low-income housing project to middle-class Forest Hills. He then lost the Republican primary. (The New York Times, 1969); Mayor David N. Dinkins swearing in Claire Shulman as Queens Borough President at a ceremony in January 1990. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); CITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (70%); SUBURBS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); 

PERSON: MANTON, THOMAS J (REPR); GRESSER, CAROL A; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); ROBERTS, SAM RUDY GIULIANI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



436 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1892 words

HEADLINE: India Bombings: Gangs Involved, But Who Else?

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOMBAY, India, May 11

 BODY:
For nearly two hours on March 12, explosions thundered through this city, sending pillars of black smoke skyward.
First the stock exchange was jarred by a blast that collapsed walls and ceilings. Then the central office of Air India shuddered under the force of a blast. And then, through the city, more bombs, more columns of thick, sooty smoke. By the time the explosions ended, more than 250 people had died. 
 Now, after two months of investigation, the police say that it is clear that the bombings were committed by members of the city's organized crime networks, and they have arrested nearly 100 suspects, all of them Muslims.
Perhaps more signifcantly, they believe that the bombings were in retaliation for the killings of hundreds of Muslims in this city in December and January and that some foreign government or organization was behind the blasts. But there is little evidence that points to any particular government or organization or substantiates their theory of retaliation.
 
Hundreds Are Questioned
 The police have questioned hundreds of witnesses, summoned specialists from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and sought information on terrorism from Western intelligence agencies. But as in the bombing of the World Trade Center in New York, while the authorities believe they have arrested the people who carried out the attack, they do not know who was behind it.
Overshadowing the investigation are the raw tensions between Pakistan and India: even before investigators began assembling evidence a wide range of Indian politicians, both senior Government officials and opposition leaders, accused the Pakistani Government of masterminding the blasts.
Despite these accusations, Bombay's top police officials say there is scant evidence that points to Pakistan.
What they do know, they say, is that Bombay's criminal underworld was deeply involved in the bombings. But the police, who have no organized crime task force and have never jailed senior gang members for any crime, say they are uncertain why the underworld took part.
"This is fairly well thought out," said Amarjeet Singh Samra, the Bombay Police Commissioner. "There is lots of money involved, explosives, landing operations, transport, procuring vehicles. The thinking has gone on for a couple of months, it could have been October or November.
"You can't do this job unless you take a very professional approach. Whichever country organized it has done it in a very professional way. They won't have links with anybody. I am not saying it is Pakistan. I am not saying it is Iran. I am just saying it is a foreign power."
Last December, and again in January, Bombay was torn by violence, the first wave pitting the police against Muslims enraged over the destruction of a mosque in northern India by Hindu militants, and the second a pogrom against Muslims by Hindu gangs.
The violence left the city's Muslim minority frightened and angry, and left unsettled as well the confidence that had been a hallmark of Bombay, the economic heart of India.
Then came the bombings in March.
 
A Vehicle's Number Is Found in Debris
 Almost immediately, the Home Minister, Shankarrao Bhaorao Chavan, who heads the country's internal security forces, labeled the attack "an international conspiracy." The leader of the Hindu chauvinist Bharatiya Janata Party lashed out at Pakistan, and, by inference, at India's Muslims.
"The needle of suspicion is pointing very strongly at Pakistan," Lal Krishna Advani, the Hindu party leader, said the day after the explosions. "Maybe the brain is in Islamabad, but the hand is certainly here and it is the hand of traitors." He offered no evidence to support his charges.
Bombay's police, who had no experience in investigations of this sort or size, quickly made considerable progress. As in the investigation of the bombing of the World Trade Center, a vehicle identification number was recovered from the debris at the stock exchange.
Two agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrived within days to examine the blast sites, but apparently found them so disturbed that they were unable to uncover much significant evidence.
"The Bombay authorities were so intent on getting things back to normal, like the stock exchange, that they destroyed a lot of evidence," a diplomat said. "The bomb sites were never closed off."
But in the days after the explosions, the police did find unexploded bombs in the storage compartments of several motor scooters. They also found a small maroon van containing seven AK-56 assault rifles and four hand grenades. Almost immediately, the police traced the owner of the van and found that it belonged to one of Bombay's underworld families, the Memons.
 
Family's Trail Followed to Dubai
 Like all of Bombay's crime families, the Memons operated with virtual impunity. Ibrahim Memon, nicknamed Tiger, began his career by smuggling with his five brothers.
"He was a small-time operator dealing in smuggled goods, gold, watches, that sort of thing," said Vasant Keshaorao Saraf, who retired as the director general of police eight months ago. "Then he got involved in protection."
When the police, after tracing the owner of the maroon van, hurried to the Memons' apartment the evening of the bombings, they found the entire Memon family gone. After checking with the airlines, investigators learned that all 12 members of the family had left Bombay for Dubai over a nine-day period before the explosions.
With the Memons' flight, Bombay's police believe they lost the key link in the chain of evidence that would have provided insight into who, or which country, was behind the bombings.
But they arrested more and more suspects, moving from one arrest to the next as interrogations revealed the names of others who took part in the bombings. At the same time, the questioning of those arrested led to caches of weapons and explosives, material the police believe was part of a larger terrorist plot.
"This cannot be the work of ordinary criminals," said M. N. Singh, the police official directly supervising the investigation. "They don't go in for mass destruction. This was done to destabilize the country. Obviously only someone with an organization and resources could do this."
But, he added, "those who know everything are out of our net."
 
Suspects Recount Training in Pakistan
 Throughout April, Indian officials issued a series of often contradictory statements on the explosions, some accusing Pakistan, others maintaining there was no evidence pointing to Islamabad.
Ten of those arrested told the police that they had been flown to Islamabad in February, along with 20 other people, where they had been shown how to fire Kalishnikov assault rifles and how to throw hand grenades.
Most incriminating, Mr. Samra said, was that the passports of the suspects did not show Pakistan entry stamps, evidence, he said, that there was complicity by Pakistan to admit the suspects.
According to Western diplomats, militant Islamic fundamentalists have long used Pakistan as a training base, particularly during the 14-year war in Afghanistan. None of these diplomats said they were surprised that the suspects could have been in Pakistan, but they said that this itself did not prove the complicity of the Pakistani Government. "A lot goes on here," said one diplomat in Islamabad, "and the Government doesn't necessarily know about it."
Another diplomat said the insistence by officials in New Delhi that Pakistan was involved was hurting the investigation. He also said that the Bombay police knew little about organized crime in the city.
 
 
The Rise to Power Of Organized Crime
 Bombay's underworld -- a flourishing assortment of smuggling operations, protection and extortion rackets, illegal foreign exchange dealers and unlawful construction outfits -- began much the way organized crime started in the United States.
"Bombay is known for decades for street dadas, street toughs, the bully," said Mr. Saraf, the former police official. "They carried flick knives. They weren't everywhere, but they were there. Then prohibition came in '49 and '50. And with that came the first rudimentary organized crime. Illicit distillation became an industry. A cartel-like thing came together."
As socialism, currency controls and bans on imports became part of India's economic strategy, organized crime prospered. "Gold smuggling began in 1962," Mr. Samra said. So-called black money -- income that is earned illicitly and that is untaxed -- "grew because of government controls and restrictions."
"So much money was put into gold," Mr. Samra said. "And where did the gold come from? Dubai."
A man named Dawood Ibrahim, a former street hoodlum, became the city's leading gangster after moving into smuggling and protection rackets in the late 1970's, officials say.
"Twice cases were taken against him for killings, in '83 and '84," Mr. Saraf said. "In both cases he got bail from the court. He thought things were getting too hot and one fine morning he landed in Dubai."
Since then, officials say, Mr. Ibrahim has used Dubai as a base for running his criminal enterprises in Bombay and his legitimate trading businesses in the Persian Gulf and Europe. The Bombay police suspect he was involved in the bombings; he denies any role.
 
The Search Is On For a 'Third Force'
 By the end of April, the Bombay police, and Mr. Samra in particular, had changed their view of the origins of the conspiracy, saying that more than criminal activities were involved.
"Obviously the Memons and Dawood don't gain from this," Mr. Samra said. "There is some third force behind it. Someone wanted to hit India. The Memons and Dawood were told to take revenge. After the riots in December and January, people felt aggrieved. The Memons provided a ready-made infrastructure."
Many of the people who made up that infrastructure, low-level street criminals, have been arrested by the police, who now say that nearly 100 are in custody. All of those arrested, from those who actually planted bombs, to those who helped store explosives, to those who said they were trained in Pakistan, are Muslims. But none were in on the planning of the bombings, the police commissioner said.
"They didn't have an idea of why they were doing it," Mr. Samra said. "Some of them were told it was to take revenge for the riots. These boys just did what they were told to do."
In Bombay, there is an acute awareness that all those arrested are Muslims. And within the Muslim community there is a mixture of concern that Muslims will be singled out for reprisals by Hindus. But there is a quiet satisfaction about the bombings as well, a feeling that Muslim confidence had been restored after the violence of December and January.
Abbabhai Kamruddin sat on a shelf in his small shop in the Nagpada area of Bombay, a mostly Muslim neighborhood. Around him were long rolls of canvas, muslin and plastic, fabrics used to make carry bags.
"In January, they were entering the houses of Muslims and slaughtering them," he said in an unmistakable reference to Hindus. "But after the bomb blasts they are a little afraid. In the past, if a man with a beard was on the bus, they used to tease him. Now there is no taunting. The insults have stopped."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Officials in Bombay are saying that a series of explosions in March that killed more than 250 people were set off by members of the city's organized crime networks, possibly in retaliation for the killing of Muslims in December. A victim lay in front of a car after a blast at a gas station. (Reuters) (pg. 10)
 
Map of India, indicating Bombay (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (95%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIA; BOMBAY (INDIA) INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; ORGANIZED CRIME BOMBINGS (93%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); ARRESTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RELIGION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); WITNESSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); POLITICS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



437 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Appeals Court Upholds Shifting of Hospital Costs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 15

 BODY:
A divided Federal appeals court ruled Friday that states may legally shift the hospital costs of caring for people without insurance onto those who have it.
The 2-to-1 decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, in Philadelphia, reversed a May 1992 ruling by Judge Alfred M. Wolin of Federal Court in Newark, who struck down New Jersey's hospital rate-setting system. 
 Albert G. Kroll, a lawyer for some of the 14 labor union benefit plans that sued, said his clients were considering further appeals.
Judge Wolin's ruling led to a sweeping overhaul of New Jersey's health regulations in November, including the imposition of a payroll tax to cover uncompensated hospital costs. Unemployment taxes were reduced at the same time, so workers and employers would not notice.
Since the laws were changed, the appellate ruling's impact on New Jersey is limited to bolstering efforts by hospitals to collect an estimated $130 million in payment withheld by union and other self-insured benefit plans before the new law took effect.
A spokesman for the New Jersey Hospital Association, Ronald Czajkowski, said the ruling was being closely watched in other states, like New York, where cost-shifting regulations were being challenged.
Hospitals commonly build into their basic rates the costs of charity care and unpaid bills. In New Jersey a system of surcharges was developed in 1978 to equalize costs between wealthy suburban hospitals where most patients are insured, and urban centers where most are uninsured or underinsured.
The uncompensated care surcharge had grown to 19.1 percent in 1992 when Judge Wolin ruled in favor of labor unions that the charges violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, which prohibits unions or other self-insured benefit programs from providing coverage to non-participants.
Judge Walter K. Stapleton, writing for the Circuit Court panel's majority, disagreed.
"This effect is no different in kind, however, from any state regulation that increases the cost of goods and services that hospitals consume and pass on," he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; HEALTH INSURANCE; HOSPITALS; RATES; LABOR UNIONS; STATES (US) APPELLATE DECISIONS (93%); APPEALS COURTS (92%); APPEALS (92%); HOSPITALS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SELF INSURANCE (89%); VERDICTS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); SUBURBS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



438 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Kentuckians Try to Rein In Suburbia

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LEXINGTON, Ky.

 BODY:
The way Bob Clay sees it, Kentucky's Bluegrass Country is a national treasure, much like the Grand Canyon or the Great Lakes or the Florida Keys.
"It's one of those special places that Americans like to celebrate and visit," said Mr. Clay, a horse breeder. "Mention the word 'thoroughbred,' and people see in the mind's eye neatly fenced pastures with frisky foals rolling around in lush bluegrass. Maybe there's a picturesque barn standing on a hill beyond." 
 But these days the vista does not always end there. In a growing number of places, especially around Lexington, housing subdivisions are creeping toward the barns and pastures and frisky foals. The turf where the likes of Man o' War and Whirlaway and Secretariat once grazed contentedly is beginning to disappear.
 
More and More Pavement
 In fact, some horse farms have already been chewed up and transformed into suburbs, complete with cul-de-sacs studded with enough of those little front-yard jockey statues to run a full card of races. Fast-food restaurants abut paddocks where champion studs court skittish mares. There is even a plan to bulldoze part of one breeding farm, pave it and put up a shopping mall.
"I'm afraid that the celebration of the Bluegrass Country occurs more outside of Kentucky than inside," Mr. Clay lamented. "People just assume that there are stewards who will take care of this national treasure. But if you look around, you'll see that you can't take that for granted. We've got to take action."
To that end, Mr. Clay and a group of business leaders and planners in the Lexington area have formed Bluegrass Tomorrow, an organization whose goal is to come up with a plan that will encourage growth in the region while keeping that growth from destroying the uniqueness of the Bluegrass Country.
No final decision has been made. But in general the group hopes to persuade local governments to adopt zoning and easement policies that will lead to clustering of houses and shopping areas, with farms left in between.
 
Still Much to Save
 None of this is to say that the last horse farm will be gone in a matter of a few years.
Despite the encroachment of houses and shopping centers, and despite some bankruptcies among horse breeders who overextended themselves while trying to take advantage of tax write-offs, the fact is there is still a lot of open Bluegrass Country left.
But the danger of further encroachment is real because the Lexington area is steadily gaining population, growing to 348,000 residents in 1990 from 267,000 in 1970, an increase of just over 30 percent.
The region is coming out of the recession in fairly good shape, with unemployment now down to 4 percent, and local planners are confident that manufacturers and other businesses will be drawn to the region's readily available labor force, its easy assess by interstate highways from Eastern and Midwestern centers and, of course, its natural beauty and enviable quality of life.
 
Tobacco Loses Ground
 From Lexington, its heart and soul, Bluegrass Country extends for 25 miles or so in all directions, encompassing a half-dozen smaller towns and villages. In some places, tobacco farms are mixed in among the horse farms, but their number has dwindled with growing health concerns about smoking.
Whether the grass is actually blue is in the eye of the beholder. Those who perceive a bit of tint say it derives from the plate of limestone that lies beneath the rich, dark soil of the region. They also insist that the grass, because it contains minerals taken up from the limestone, gives Kentucky thoroughbreds a soundness not found in thoroughbreds raised anywhere else.
"You can argue endlessly about the color and mineral content of bluegrass," said Horst Schach, the chairman of the landscape architecture department at the University of Kentucky and a member of Bluegrass Tomorrow. "But what you can't argue about is the record of Kentucky horses. They've got to be getting that extra push and strength from somewhere. People keep coming to this part of Kentucky to buy and breed, more than anywhere else. That's reason enough to come up with a plan to save the bluegrass."
 
Challenges on Horizon
 Other communities around the country, including some of the suburban towns and cities on the outskirts of Washington, have experimented with plans to maintain open space through special zoning and easement provisions. It is too early to assess success, but in almost every case the zoning aspects were politically difficult to sell to developers, while buying easements from farmers to maintain a rural atmosphere proved costly.
Bluegrass Tomorrow is likely to face a similar challenge once it decides on the final details of its plan.
"They have a laudable goal in trying to save the bluegrass," said Bill Justice, a Lexington real estate agent who specializes in horse farms. "But it's a tricky balance trying to maintain growth and life style. The politics can be especially difficult because so many interests are at stake."
Leaders of Bluegrass Tomorrow say they do not underestimate the challenge.
"We've got a real tough selling job ahead of us," said Joe Graves, a Lexington banker who helped found the group. "But we can't afford to fail. Already we've begun destroying the main engine of our economy, the very thing that most sets the tone for our lives. If we don't move, and move now, we're going to wake up one day and find there's no bluegrass left, and it's too late to replant."

GRAPHIC: Map of Kentucky and of Lexington and surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENTUCKY; LEXINGTON (KY) UNITED STATES (96%); KENTUCKY, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); HORSES (90%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); EQUINE PRODUCTION (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); ZONING (74%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (73%); RETAILERS (70%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); FAST FOOD (52%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



439 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Average Traffic Speed: 2.7 Miles Per Hour

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
After a day slogging through the Garment District in a rickety truck loaded with dress suits, Jerome Miller was nearing the end of his delivery route. One more stop, he muttered as he lurched down Seventh Avenue. But then he turned west onto 37th Street, and suddenly it seemed as if he had driven into a bog.
Trucks and vans appeared to be glued to the street. There was only one escape, a cramped passage to Eighth Avenue, but even that was jammed with workers unloading clothing. Men pushing racks of dresses lunged on and off the sidewalks. Pedestrians danced around the stranded vehicles.
 
'It's Crazy Out There'
 Time had been defeated. There was no progress. Mr. Miller and his truck had been swallowed up by perhaps the most congested block in New York City. 
 "It's crazy out here, trust me," Mr. Miller, 28, yelled when he reached the middle of the block 15 minutes later. He double-parked to make his delivery, adding another obstruction to a street that symbolizes how difficult it is to unclog traffic in the city's commercial areas.
Sometimes it seems that every roadway in New York is maddeningly congested, but even by the city's abysmal standards, a few stand out. When traffic engineers survey vehicle speeds in midtown Manhattan twice a year during business hours, 37th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues almost always tops the list of the slowest blocks.
Vehicles average 2.7 miles an hour, meaning that human beings can often walk faster than their mechanical rivals can drive -- that is, if the human beings can navigate the clothing-rack-and-shipping-carton obstacles on the sidewalks.
"If you have a heart attack on this block and an ambulance wants to get here, consider yourself dead," said Dennis Martinez, 25, a freight elevator operator at 241 West 37th Street who spends much of his day watching (and musing upon) the kaleidoscope of activity in front of his building.
Thirty-seventh Street and other notoriously crowded midtown blocks -- like 53d Street between Park and Madison Avenues or 46th Street between the Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue -- are more than just annoyances that provoke temper tantrums from normally composed adults. The congestion contributes to air pollution and traffic delays that drain $7 billion a year from the city's economy, studies show.
So untangling these roadways through technology, stepped-up enforcement or other measures will not only make life easier for Garment District workers like Mr. Miller and Mr. Martinez, but also provide benefits to the city as a whole.
The challenge, though, is immense.
On 37th Street, there are daily truck accidents amid processions of well-coiffed industry buyers, gangs of thieves who take advantage of the frenzy to snatch clothes off moving racks and fistfights over parking spots that are more coveted than the latest Donna Karan dress.
Parking signs are mounted against the buildings because so many vehicles used to knock them over while pulling into spots (and some deliverers then stole them so they would not receive tickets). Some United Parcel Service trucks receive up to four parking tickets a day.
What is more, many vehicles not connected to the Garment District use the block to reach the nearby Lincoln Tunnel -- a foolish choice, it usually turns out.
 
Frustrated Firefighters
 All this unfolds to an unending soundtrack of car horns, yelps of frustration and roaring engines.
The block "is the closest thing that we have to the photographs of the Lower East Side during the turn of the century," said Joseph DePlasco, the chief spokesman for the Department of Transportation. "There is an extraordinary amount of diverse activity."
Not to mention the firehouse.
Most firefighters worry about deadly blazes. The members of Engine Company 26 worry just as much about getting to them. They work out of a firehouse that was built in the middle of the block, at 220 West 37th Street, during the Civil War, well before the Garment District rose around it.
Several times a week, a call comes in and they must maneuver their truck to a fire in their section (from 34th to 42d Street between Sixth and Eighth Avenues). The deliverers, freight elevator operators and other regulars on the block long ago stopped reacting to horns and sirens, so the firefighters use other strategies.
 
Help From the Homeless
 They jump off their rig and try to direct traffic. Or they turn the truck around and drive east -- the wrong direction -- on 37th Street. Sometimes, homeless men who loiter near the avenues run into the street to halt delivery trucks at the intersections.
"People just don't get out of the way," said Joe Petrich, 48, a firefighter who has worked at Engine Company 26 for 21 years. He often stands guard in front of the firehouse to shoo away truckers who salivate when they see the empty space in front of the building's driveway.
Not everyone curses the chaos. To many executives at the factories and wholesale showrooms in the area, the din indicates that the Garment District remains vibrant despite the recurring predictions of its demise. In fact, Iranian, Syrian and other immigrants have opened numerous retail and wholesale clothing stores on 37th Street in recent years, helping to revitalize an area that was starting to lose factories and other tenants to New Jersey.
"Thank God it's congested, or we'd be out of business," said Gary Welikson, 40, a partner at Royal Craft Trimming Corporation, a wholesaler. "Business people who see activity feel things are happening. It feeds on itself. Business people feel more confident."
 
Speed vs. Business
 For transportation officials, that is the problem: How can they speed up traffic in commercial areas without damaging businesses? Currently, for example, trucks can park on many Garment District streets for up to three hours to make deliveries. Officials could easily liberate some roadways if they sharply reduced that time limit.
But that move would wreck many companies, turning the area into the ghost town that it seems at night, when workers have gone home and the streets are deserted.
Officials are hoping that a new system of sensors to monitor congestion along with "smart" traffic lights -- part of a $100 million traffic-tracking network -- will help reduce crowding. Some traffic agents now complain that the light changes at many intersections in the Garment District are too quick, so trucks do not have time to pull through the mobs of people crossing streets before the lights turn red.
With "smart" traffic lights, engineers could instantly change the length of red signals from a control center to move traffic more smoothly. Another option is to ban some vehicles from certain areas -- particularly cars, which tend to be the most flagrant violators of parking rules.
 
Can't Have Everything
 "There is this sense that anyone should be allowed to be on any street they want to," Mr. DePlasco said. "But we can't have that all the time. Theoretically, somewhere down the line, you may see restrictions on vehicles moving on some places around Manhattan."
That change would appeal to workers like Anthony Arias, 28, who spends his days delivering cardboard boxes to showrooms on 37th Street. Mr. Arias was recently released from a boot-camp-style prison for an assault conviction. He said he had learned some powerful lessons there for dealing with his job.
As he pulls his heavy hand cart along the streets and sidewalks, dodging racks and pedestrians and trucks and bicylists, he repeats a mantra to himself that he learned from the prison guards: "You have to accept things you cannot change and change the things that you can."
"Emotionally, it breaks you down," he said of the block. "Mentally, it wears you out. It's hectic and it's tiring, but it's the only job around, and for $4.25 an hour."
Others workers on 37th Street are just as fatalistic.
"What can they do to make things better?" asked Mr. Martinez, the freight elevator operator. "I don't think a man in this world has the answer. That answer has to come from heaven."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traffic engineers say that West 37th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues is perhaps the slowest block in New York City. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Map/Chart: "MIDTOWN TRAFFIC -- How Slow Can You Go?," shows 10 slowest segments during business hours in Midtown Manhattan ranked by number of times they have been cited in surveys. (Source: Department of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; GARMENT DISTRICT (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); ENGINEERING (70%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



440 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: After a Wedding, a Death in the Family

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YONKERS, May 12

 BODY:
When Iona College agreed to consolidate with Elizabeth Seton College four years ago, both institutions were pleased with the prospects of an academic marriage in the Roman Catholic tradition.
For Iona, a four-year college in New Rochelle founded by the Congregation of Christian Brothers, it meant an expansion of its programs in Westchester County. For Elizabeth Seton, a financially troubled two-year college established by the Sisters of Charity, it promised survival into the next century. 
 But now for many at Elizabeth Seton -- or more accurately, the Yonkers campus of Iona College -- that friendly merger is feeling more like a hostile takeover. At the end of this month, Iona will close the doors of the 21-acre campus overlooking the Hudson River here.
 
Drop in Enrollment
 Officials at Iona say the decision to shut down the campus was painful but necessary because of a drop in enrollment over the past two years. That, and the cost of catching up on maintenance that had been deferred until the consolidation will leave the Yonkers campus $1 million in the red this year.
"There are some people who haven't left the funeral parlor yet," said Brother John G. Driscoll, president of Iona College. "I had to leave it, but I took the living with me."
It is not merely grief that many faculty, administrators and students are grappling with, however; it is a sense of betrayal.
"Iona College took us over with all sorts of assurances and promises and task forces saying we would remain autonomous," said Myra Russel, an associate professor of English at the Seton School of Associate Degree Studies. "All the promises that were made are now null and void."
Some of the most bitter critics of the decision argue that Iona could have taken less drastic measures, such as selling off a piece of the valuable riverside campus, in order to preserve the legacy of Elizabeth Seton College, named for the first American-born saint. They say that Iona, which acquired $1.7 million in debt during the consolidation, now stands to make millions of dollars by selling the entire property.
 
Seeing Dollar Signs?
 Some speculate that Iona had dollar signs in its eyes when the consolidation agreement was signed. They say Iona could have prevented the downturn in enrollment by doing more to promote the associate degree programs. Iona counters that the Seton students -- many of them from poor families -- were hurt by the recession and government cuts in financial aid.
But most people at Seton say they believe Iona simply lacked the commitment to ride out a shaky period. Seton's enrollment is now 426, which is higher than it was before consolidation. Enrollment jumped after the merger to a high of 737 in 1990, but has since steadily slid. And it is a fraction of the total 5,759 students at Iona.
"It's possible it was not a deliberate plan but rather something where they said to themselves, 'We'll do this and if it doesn't work out, we always have an escape hatch -- a valuable property to sell,' " said Richard L. Nochimson, the academic dean of Seton from 1976 to 1986. "But, of course, that was really double-dealing. Seton's finances were marginal but we were not gasping for breath, and we certainly weren't within four years of having to close."
 
Not Alone in Troubles
 According to the American Association of Community Colleges in Washington, the Seton campus is not alone in its troubles: the number of private two-year colleges has fallen from 216 in 1975 to 164 in 1990. Public two-year colleges, where tuition is lower, expanded during the same period, from 1,014 to 1,273.
National trends are little solace here, however. "Personally, I don't think Iona had good intentions when they merged," said George Scudieri, 22, a lab instructor in the Radio-Television Department who just got a pink slip since he is considered part of the staff, not the faculty, which is under contract.
"Iona spent a lot of money in the 80's and now they're in debt," he said, referring to new construction at the New Rochelle campus. "Brother Driscoll dug himself into a hole and he saw the solution in Elizabeth Seton."
Iona strongly defends itself against such allegations, saying it had entered into the consolidation with genuine excitement and was looking forward to creating an arts center out of the limestone mansion designed by Carrere & Hastings, who also did the New York Public Library, that is the heart of campus. Known as the Alder manor house, it is home to 12 nuns.
"I had a lot of grieving to do myself, because I was the one who spoke most romantically about the vision at the time of consolidation," Brother Driscoll said.
As for Iona's own finances, he acknowledged that last year the college did not break even for the first time in his 22-year presidency, but he said that the budget was now in line.
Iona has promised to transfer all students from the Yonkers campus, along with their academic programs, to the New Rochelle campus. For next fall only, the Seton students will get a break on tuition, paying what they would have paid had the Yonkers campus remained open -- about $1,000 less than at Iona.
Iona plans to honor all faculty contracts through next June, bringing some three dozen professors over to New Rochelle. Beyond that, however, hiring of nontenured faculty will be based on student enrollment, while those with tenure will have guaranteed jobs for as long as their departments remain open.
The sisters, some of whom still teach, have shunned publicity since the announcement Jan. 25 that their campus would close. But they are said to be devastated; a few have lived in the manor house since the college was founded in 1960.
Iona is considering a number of proposals for the property, zoned for education use, including one from a university in Turkey. Closer to home, one scenario that would carry on theSeton spirit would be a proposal from Mercy College in nearby Dobbs Ferry -- itself an institution with Catholic roots -- and the City of Yonkers, which has expressed interest in a linkage between Mercy and the city's schools.
Residential or commercial zoning would certainly be more lucrative, but the Mayor of Yonkers, Terence M. Zaleski, a former teacher, seems intent on keeping it a campus.
"A city is very much defined by the types of institutions within its borders," he said, "and having an institution of higher learning is good for us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When Iona College agreed to consolidate with Elizabeth Seton College four years ago, both institutions were pleased with the union. But now many at the Elizabeth Seton campus in Yonkers, above, are feeling betrayed because at the end of this month, Iona will permanently close the 21-acre campus. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IONA COLLEGE; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ELIZABETH SETON COLLEGE (YONKERS, NY)

ORGANIZATION: IONA COLLEGE; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ELIZABETH SETON COLLEGE (YONKERS, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES RELIGION (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (58%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



441 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
Mayoral Candidates Look Past the Primary

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
For years, the maxim of New York's fractious but politically dominant Democrats as they faced make-or-break primaries was N.D.C., which really stood for the national New Democratic Coalition but came to mean "November doesn't count." In this year's mayoral election, however, most politicians are already acting as if November is the only thing that counts.
To be sure, Mayor David N. Dinkins still faces a Democratic primary challenge from his long-time nemesis, City Council President Andrew J. Stein, and from Roy Innis, the chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality, though he holds a roughly 30-point lead over Mr. Stein in all the polls and Mr. Innis has only single-digit support. 
 But the maneuvering last week surrounding the withdrawal of the fourth Democratic hopeful, Herman Badillo, showed just how thoroughly the candidates have jumped beyond the September primary in their strategies. Mr. Dinkins's Republican challenger, Rudolph W. Giuliani, is trying to forge an alliance with Mr. Badillo by persuading him to run instead for Comptroller with multiparty support.
Yesterday, Mr. Giuliani won the endorsement of the state's Liberal Party, as he did in 1989, which lends plausibility to his pledge to forge a broad coalition. [Page 34.]
The Mayor's supporters are making similar efforts to look ahead to November. Those range from faltering attempts to forge an alliance with a Hispanic candidate for the No. 2 office, Public Advocate, to entreaties to secure Mr. Dinkins the nomination of the New Party -- an independent group founded by some of the Mayor's most liberal allies in organized labor to prod the Democrats from the left. That could provide extra votes or a fallback for the general-election ballot in case, unlikely as it seems now, he should lose the Democratic nomination.
Even a lukewarm Dinkins ally like Representative Thomas J. Manton, the Queens Democratic leader, felt compelled to rally around the Mayor in the cause of party unity last week and to urge his old friend Mr. Stein to run for re-election instead.
All of this jockeying is testament to the fundamental facts of Mr. Dinkins's political life. On the one hand, his rock solid support among black voters gives him the biggest single electoral bloc of any candidate. In fact, at roughly one-third of the primary electorate, it is almost enough to assure the 40 percent needed under election rules to avoid a runoff.
But he cannot win a general election without expanding significantly beyond that base and surveys over the last two years have revealed an extreme polarization between black and white New Yorkers' views of him. With Mr. Stein running so far behind, many white voters who would normally be reflexive Democrats have apparently already settled on Mr. Giuliani as the only plausible alternative.
"What's unusual here is that there has not been in the past a two-party system in New York," said Maureen Connelly, a political consultant who has advised both Democratic and Republican candidates and is not involved in the current race. "And when a strong individual arises, there's the appearance of strength," she added, referring to Mr. Giuliani.
So comes the quest by both camps for the swing voters -- Hispanic New Yorkers, homosexuals, women, Jews -- that can tip the balance.
General-election battles for City Hall are hardly unheard of, of course. John V. Lindsay faced them in 1965 and 1969, first as a Republican and then as the Liberal nominee. Edward I. Koch, the Democratic nominee, barely held off Mario M. Cuomo, the Liberal nominee in 1977. And four years ago, Mr. Dinkins defeated Mr. Giuliani by just 2 percentage points, by putting together a coalition of black, Hispanic and liberal white voters, but only after each candidate had faced significant primary fights.
 
Lookin Ahead
 But at no time in the recent past has the prospect of a real general-election fight loomed over a primary season as desultory as this one has been so far -- much less a November rematch between the same two well-known candidates. That itself has advisers to both the Mayor and Mr. Giuliani on tenterhooks. Meantime, recent polls have shown Mr. Dinkins's support slipping among such key groups as Hispanic voters and Mr. Giuliani's growing.
Bill Lynch, the Mayor's campaign manager, has said over and over that his biggest worry is that complacency among Mr. Dinkins's Democratic supporters could translate into trouble in November.
The Giuliani camp -- while supremely grateful to face no Republican opposition like the $14 million fusillade in 1989 from Ronald Lauder, the conservative cosmetics executive -- is equally on guard. Last time, Mr. Giuliani conceived his campaign as a challenge to the scarred three-term incumbent, Mr. Koch, only to find himself the only thing blocking Mr. Dinkins's bid to become the city's first black Mayor and fumbling for weeks as a result.
"I think it's right to say that it's not right from a political point of view to already be so focused on November, because you never know what's going to happen in politics," said Mr. Giuliani's chief strategist, David Garth. "But the primary appears to be, in many politicians' minds, over. If Andy was within 10 or 15 points, things would be a lot different. There's also a sense that the Mayor's in some difficulty, so people are searching for alliances or something different."
Mr. Stein maintains that Mr. Badillo's withdrawal enables him to home in on the Mayor, and that may be the case, since Mr. Stein has enough money to continue his campaign. But so far even a month of costly television advertising has only seen him sink further in the polls.
As the incumbent, Mr. Dinkins holds many powerful advantages for November: ready access to news organizations and to fund-raising from the city's permanent business establishment in real estate and finance, which is wary of rocking the boat. But he is also responsible for running the show and a single calamity -- a riot, a rash of crimes, a big new hole in the budget requiring cuts in city services -- could instantly shift public perceptions of him, or freeze them irretrievably to his disadvantage.
"We're at a point where the whole focus and scrutiny and frame is on the Mayor," said Hank Morris, a Democratic consultant working for Assemblyman Alan G. Hevesi's campaign for Comptroller. "The cleavage is up or down on Dinkins."
Even as he is seeking to mend fences with the middle-class white constituencies represented by Mr. Manton, Mr. Dinkins is counting on party loyalty to help him in a city where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by nearly 5 to 1. He hammers away again and again at Mr. Giuliani as a Republican, a member of the party whose national convention became a showcase for the right wing last summer and whose national economic policies the Mayor blames for 12 years of urban neglect.
 
Avoiding Ideology
 By contrast, Mr. Giuliani is taking far greater pains than he did in 1989 to portray himself as a nonideological candidate, willing to try new ideas like farming out some city services to the private sector, and preaching a credo of personal responsibility that actually echoes themes sounded by Bill Clinton in last year's Presidential campaign. He has also gone out of his way to express tolerance for homosexuals -- while also expressing qualms about the specifics of plans to teach respect for gay life styles in the schools and to make condoms available to students without parental consent.
Even Mr. Giuliani's effort to win the Conservative Party nomination -- which ultimately failed -- was billed by his advisers as an effort to show just how nonideological he was, if the Republican, Liberal and Conservative parties could all rally around him.
In fact, neither candidate can afford to be seen as appealing to extremes. "The key thing," said Ms. Connelly, the consultant, "is you can't do anything in the short term to get a leg up that'll hurt you in the long term."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MAYORS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BADILLO, HERMAN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



442 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Stiff Test for Newark Schools Auditor

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 14

 BODY:
People who know Rebecca A. Doggett say she knows how to walk into a complex situation and untangle things. Her next assignment, auditor general of the public schools here, will test that appraisal in a politically sensitive job that could bring her into conflict with friends and former colleagues.
Ms. Doggett, an executive with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, was appointed auditor general of the Newark school system on Thursday as part of a state monitoring effort that could lead to a takeover of the district. 
 In an interview she talked about why she thinks she was chosen by Education Commissioner Mary Fitzgerald for a job in a city where she once played a role in major community programs in some of the poorest neighborhoods.
"I guess the reason I got the call," she said, "is that the Commissioner was looking for someone who had extensive managerial experience in the public sector but also someone who was identified with the Newark community. I think she feels that's important, so people understand that she wants to do what's best for the people of Newark."
 
'Privileged Poor Kid'
 Ms. Doggett, 52 years old, grew up in nearby Orange, the only child of a registered nurse and her husband, who owned a garage and tire business. She attended Orange High School, graduated from Upsala College in 1962 with a bachelor's degree in French and received a master's degree in human relations from New York University in 1968.
"My family has always been socially conscious," she said, "and I think being a child of the 60's and being influenced by Dr. King and the civil rights movement, I've always felt that growing up as a privileged poor kid, one of the few that had the advantages of going to high school and college, that we had an extra obligation to help."
When she takes over the job officially on June 1, she will be returning to a city she knows well, a system from which her daughter and a step-son graduated and a school district where she has many friends and colleagues from her days with Head Start and programs supporting early childhood education.
Peter Shapiro, the former Essex County Executive who is now a Citibank official, said he first met Ms. Doggett when he was a State Assemblyman in the 1970's and she was running the Head Start program, one of the country's largest.
 
Viewed as Service Provider
 "She headed up one of the most credible agencies in Newark," Mr. Shapiro said. "Unlike other ones, which were based mostly in the more affluent parts of Newark, this was based right in the heart of the Central Ward. It wasn't able to boost its performance by taking on a demographically easier population. She showed dedication guts and smarts."
When he became County Executive in 1979, he named Ms. Doggett to head the newly created Citizen Services department, which reorganized the former welfare agency and added programs for children and the elderly. It was among the three largest agencies in the county, serving tens of thousands of residents.
"She has a great combination of competence, coupled with a desire for change," Mr. Shapiro said. "The best change agents are those who both have a justifiable anger at injustice that makes them want to make the world better and an understanding of how things work. Becky has both."
Kenneth A. Gibson, the former Mayor of Newark, first met Ms. Doggett through civil rights work in the 1960's.
"She's a good choice for anything," Mr. Gibson said. "As a person, I think she approaches almost anything with the notion of getting the job done, not as a hard-nosed person but one who provides service to the community."
 
Veto Power on Spending
 Dr. Elena Scambio, an assistant education commissioner who oversees urban districts, said Ms. Doggett's philosophy was "absolutely in sync with the Commissioner and me, in terms of looking at schools and communities as large systems."
"We see schools, particularly in urban settings, as part of a broader system," Dr. Scambio said. "We look at health services, employment and unemployment. We think you've got to pull the family, whatever the family looks like, into the process. We don't think you can go into the system and institute programs and think the kids are going to learn better. Becky comes from that school of thought. Unhooking the fragmenting that's existed."
Ms. Doggett's appointment as auditor general, with veto power of school board spending in excess of $20,000, came as the state issued a report that portrays Newark's schools as bloated by waste, chronically mismanaged and educationally bankrupt, all on a $535 million annual budget that is 85 percent state and Federal aid.
In the coming months, the Education Department will send in a team of investigators to determine why Newark suffers from the many problems identified in a state report released on Thursday. They will do the investigating, while Ms. Doggett, a deputy and three assistants will oversee the day-to-day fiscal operations.
 
On Loan From Port Authority
 But the routine spending of dollars means hiring staff, repairing buildings, buying textbooks and setting up clear procedures to do so. And as the district acts, Ms. Doggett and her staff will be watching, advising and taking steps to be sure the system spends the money wisely.
She is on loan to the district from the Port Authority, which approves such temporary assignments to public agencies. The state will pick up her $90,000 port salary for as long as she remains in the Newark post. The Education Department's investigation could last as long as a year.
At the port, Ms. Doggett has served since 1988 as director of the newly formed Office of Business and Job Opportunity. Directing a staff of 30, she helps the port's tenants, at the World Trade Center and elsewhere, find qualified support staff and designs job-training programs for them. She also heads the agency's program to recruit qualified businesses run by women or minorities for work at the port or for contractors doing business with the agency.
With a conciliatory tone that friends say is no sign of weakness, she said she hoped a takeover by the state would not be necessary.
"My hope is that Newark will cure itself," she said. "Nothing would please me more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Fitzgerald, the New Jersey Education Commissioner, who named Rebecca A. Doggett auditor general of the Newark schools. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (51%); C (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWARK (NJ); NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); BUDGETS (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); COUNTIES (70%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); ETHICS (63%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: DOGGETT, REBECCA A; STRUM, CHARLES

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



443 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Calling the Rich the Rich

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Thank you for publishing the wail penned by Leonard Riggio, chief executive of Barnes & Noble ("Dear Democrats: Don't Trash Business," Viewpoints, April 25). It is good to know how sensitive to words Mr. Riggio is, but I think he may have missed some of the jillion books sold in and about the 1980's explaining in detail about "greed" and about being "rich" and how good these words were, not to mention the attitudes and behavior they denoted. Much nicer than the cozy "wealthy" or "well to do." 
 Mr. Riggio tells us that class war is signaled by calling rich people rich. I distinctly remember reading somewhere in the mid-1980's -- probably in The New York Times -- that rich people preferred the word "rich" to the word "wealthy." "Rich" is so clean and to the point, so hold-your-head-high proud. And for a nice rhetorical turn, we learn that those who get rich are doing it selflessly, as a form of national service. Mr. Riggio ought to read some of those books he sells, in which Republicans, conservatives even, explain how the "rich" got rich(er) at the expense of the middle class and the "poor."
"Poor" -- now that must be such a class-war fighting word that it could not be mentioned during the recent Presidential campaign, or at any moment since.
 
MARTHA ROSLER
Brooklyn, April 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSERVATISM (65%); 

PERSON: RIGGIO, LEONARD LEONARD RIGGIO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



444 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Whose Government?

 BODY:
Bill Clinton got an unexpected dividend when he hit the road last week to rescue his economic plan. Whenever he segued from budget and tax proposals to the evils of influence-peddling and the need for political reform, the crowd loved it. Therein lies a reality check for lawmakers, especially those who remain in deep denial.
This week, the Senate begins battle over campaign financing reform. Some legislators profess indifference. "My constituents don't care about this stuff," one House member said the other day. 
 But they do care. Average Americans may not follow every nuance of the debate over lobbying restrictions or the technical rules for financing election campaigns. But they understand the cozy ties that exist between lawmakers and gift-bearing advocates for narrow special interests. They sense that Washington no longer belongs to them. And they urge Bill Clinton to do battle when he says, as he did in Cleveland, "The lobbyists are lining the corridors of Washington as never before."
Ordinary citizens want their government back. Sounds corny. But reclaiming democracy is what the fight's all about. Mr. Clinton's newly minted campaign finance package isn't perfect. It won't end all shady dealings between lawmakers and favor seekers.
Still, the measure contains strong disinfectant. Common Cause, the public interest group, says the Clinton bill would squeeze $130 million in special-interest contributions out of Presidential and Congressional politics. That's a big wad of checks in search of tax breaks and ambassadorships that simply won't be there anymore.
Like the version President Bush vetoed last year, the bill would establish a cleaner and more competitive system of spending limits and public financing for House and Senate campaigns. Candidates who agree to limit their spending would be entitled to vouchers they could use to communicate with voters through the media or mail.
Mr. Clinton would also shut down the soft-money loophole that has allowed millions of favor-seeking dollars to pollute publicly financed Presidential campaigns, including his own. In an intriguing twist, the bill would require lobbyists to observe a 12-month cooling-off period before showering a campaign contribution on a lawmaker from whom they've just sought help on an issue.
The Senate bill is notably stronger than the companion House measure. The Senate majority leader, George Mitchell, and the bill's chief Senate sponsor, David Boren of Oklahoma, deserve much credit for making it so.
For example, the Senate bill repeals members' free mass-mailing privileges in an election year. And Senate candidates could raise no more than 20 percent of their war chests from special-interest political action committees, and in amounts no more than $2,500. That's still too high. But it makes the more lenient PAC limits favored by timid House Democrats look even greedier.
How would this new, publicly financed system be paid for? By shrewdly eliminating the tax deduction for lobbyists. That's an appealing change in any case, and one that torpedoes Senator Bob Dole's argument that public financing amounts to "welfare for politicians."
There will be chances later on to strengthen the House proposal. But this week all eyes are on the Senate -- including, one hopes, the President's. Mr. Clinton was timidly neutral when Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota fought successfully earlier this month to include a provision forcing lobbyists to disclose their gifts to lawmakers in a lobbyist registration bill.
The President now embraces that provision. But the campaign finance bill represents a sterner test. If Mr. Clinton wages a crusade for cleaner government, standing firm against defenders of the discredited status quo, both democracy and his Presidency will be winners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMON CAUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); VETO (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); DAN BOREN (57%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



445 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: FEWER JOBS FILLED AS FACTORIES RELY ON OVERTIME PAY

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
In another sign of how hard it is to create jobs, American manufacturers are paying record amounts of overtime and factory workers are putting in more extra hours than ever before. By relying on so much overtime, companies have avoided hiring and jobs in manufacturing have continued to disappear.
For decades, overtime encouraged hiring. Companies found it cheaper to hire a new worker rather than assign more hours to existing employees, who have to be paid a 50 percent premium for the extra work. 
 But particularly in the last two years, the cost of a new employee -- recruiting, training and ever-more-costly health insurance -- has made overtime the less expensive choice.
 
Heavy Demand for Product
 "You almost always hire people now only as a last choice," said Robert Cizik, chairman of Cooper Industries and also of the National Association of Manufacturers.
When Cooper had a surge in orders for the computer cables it makes, more than 2,000 workers were asked to work an additional two hours a day, on overtime pay. Only as a last resort has Cooper recently begun to hire. "People got tired of working 10-hour days," Mr. Cizik said.
Part of the corporate reluctance to hire is clearly the rising cost of benefits, which now amounts to 28 percent of a worker's wage, up from 20 percent in 1970, the Labor Department says. But that is still well below the overtime premium. An even greater obstacle to hiring is the weak economy and the uncertainty about when it might improve.
 
Employers Are 'Very Cautious'
 "Benefit costs, including health costs, are a major factor, but there is more concern about all the costs of recruiting people, training them, carrying them until they become fully productive, and then the cost of firing them if production slacks off," said James Waters, a vice president of Towers Perrin, a company hired by corporations as a consultant on personnel. "The weak economy has made employers very cautious."
The workers themselves often welcome the overtime pay, at least for a while, as a supplement to salaries that have barely kept pace with inflation in recent years. But if the overtime continues week after week, both workers and employers say, morale and efficiency can suffer.
Nearly $900 million a week is now going for overtime pay, according to Labor Department data. That would provide for about 1.3 million new employees -- each with an average manufacturing wage of more than $11 an hour plus benefits -- if the money could somehow be channeled into wages.
Suddenly, the unemployment rate might fall by as much as a full percentage point, to 6 percent from 7 percent. And the 1.3 million jobs would nearly restore all the manufacturing employment lost in the United States since the early 1980's. Even now, the smaller manufacturing work force -- about 18.4 million people -- puts in as many hours a week as the larger number of manufacturing employees worked in the early 1980's, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics says.
But instead of hiring, overtime has reached record levels. The average overtime for a factory worker rose to 4.3 hours a week in April, the highest level since the Bureau of Labor Statistics began keeping overtime records in 1948. With so many extra hours, the average work week in manufacturing rose to 41.5 hours in April, the longest since June 1966.
"Overtime for the average production worker in manufacturing has gone up one whole hour each week since the end of the recession in 1991," said Thomas Plewes, an associate commissioner at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "That is really an astounding increase."
 
The Costs of Hiring
 The overtime phenomenon is most evident in manufacturing. Factory workers, who represent 17 percent of the nation's employees, are generally skilled and well paid, and they usually work full time because factory shifts require full-timers. Each new worker, as a result, means a considerable investment not only in benefits but also in recruiting and training.
The service sector, on the other hand, particularly the huge retail and food industries, can get by with less-skilled people on more flexible schedules. Rather than overtime, employers have resorted to hiring part-time and contract workers, mostly without paying them benefits, Labor Department data show. The result has been shorter workweeks and rising employment in the service sector.
But that modest creation of jobs has fallen far short of the 200,000 a month that most economists say needs to be created, at a minimum, if the economy is to shake off the recession that officially ended in March 1991. Job creation has not even been sufficient to keep up with demand from people entering the work force.
Citing such data, labor unions and some economists are increasingly urging the Clinton Administration and Congress -- so far without success -- to enact laws that would give companies incentives to hire, rather than resort to overtime. Corporations that hire, for example, might get a tax credit for each new worker, says Ronald Ehrenberg, a Cornell University labor economist. Or minimum overtime pay might be set at double or triple straight-time pay, in an attempt to make overtime too costly an alternative to hiring.
The Federal Government, struggling to reduce huge unemployment in the Depression years, took this tack in 1938, requiring for the first time that employers pay millions of workers time and one-half for each hour worked after a 40-hour week. That same Federal legal requirement still applies today, and in many contracts, unions have negotiated overtime pay for work after 35 to 37 hours of work.
"Other nations have decreased hours of work for a variety of reasons -- external pressure, to spread employment, and the sheer value of leisure," John Zalusky, a senior economist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said in a recent paper arguing for fewer hours and more employment. "In the 1930's, the U.S. had a policy of using shorter hours as a means of job creation, but in the last decade, public policy and private actions have addressed hours of work only as an employer cost."
The United States and Japan, in fact, have the longest workweeks of the major industrial nations. Richard Freeman, a labor economist at Harvard University, said he would recommend moving American employers to the shorter hours favored in Europe, in part by making jobless pay, under the unemployment insurance program, available to workers who agree to work, say, 30 hours a week instead of 40 hours. The pay would help to compensate the worker for the 10 hours lost. Mr. Freeman would also have the Government mandate more vacation time, perhaps a minimum of four weeks, the norm in Europe. That would also leave room for more jobs.
Labor Department officials decline to comment on most of the proposals, but Lawrence Katz, the department's chief economist, said that using unemployment insurance to subsidize workers opting for shorter hours was on the table. "In thinking about ways to encourage hiring, that is certainly an option that we are thinking about seriously," Mr. Katz said. "There does seem to be evidence that this is useful."
 
Health Care Is a Factor
 A greater impact on hiring practices would come from changes in health-care insurance, which for most factory workers is largely paid by their employers. Under the present system, the cost is a fixed amount for each employee, rather than a premium, as in the Social Security payroll tax, that rises and falls with wages earned, including overtime pay.
"A payroll tax for health care would undoubtedly make employers less reluctant to hire," said William S. Custer, research director at the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington. So would a Government-financed health insurance plan, the union preference.
But corporate executives shun such solutions. The workers themselves, they note -- accurately -- often welcome the overtime pay, at a time when raises barely keep regular hourly wages from losing ground to inflation. More important, the executives are counting on stronger economic growth to increase demand for their products and make hiring kick in.
Surveys of members conducted by the National Association of Manufacturers suggest that once economic growth rises above an annual rate of 3 percent a year and stays that high for a year or two, then factory hiring will resume, said Jerry Jasinowski, the group's president.
Economic growth, as measured by the gross domestic product, fell to an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the first quarter after having surged to 4.7 percent in last year's fourth quarter.
 
Two Companies' Solutions
 Lacking enough demand, some manufacturers are finding ways to avoid both hiring and overtime. The Quaker Oats Company of Chicago, which now employs 11,000 Americans, down slightly in recent years, has shifted many of them to 10-hour daily shifts, four days a week -- giving up overtime. The fifth day is reserved for maintenance that had been spread through the week, said Ronald Bottrell, a Quaker Oats executive. The maintenance workers, too, also now work without much overtime.
The Gillette Company of Boston has borrowed a solution from the service sector. Many of the company's 7,000 American workers had been assigned to overtime to cover weekend shifts. "But that became stressful," said Gerd Domajnko, director of corporate personnel. "You cannot do that indefinitely."
So Gillette hired part-time workers for weekends at the one or two plants that have weekend shifts. None work more than 20 hours a week, Mr. Domajnko said, and none, for that reason, qualify for Gillette's company-paid benefits.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 1993, Monday

 CORRECTION:
The picture captions with the continuation of a front-page article yesterdayabout manufacturers' paying more overtime instead of hiring more workers were reversed. The top photograph was of Jerry Jasinowski; the other was Robert Cizik.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "You almost always hire people now only as a last choice," said Robert Cizik, chairman of Cooper Industries and of the National Association of Manufacturers. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said that once growth rises above a rate of 3 percent a year and stays that high for more than a year, hiring will resume. (pg. 18)
 
Graph: "More Work, Fewer Hands," tracks manufacturing employment total and overtime hours per week, 1979-1992, and Jan.-April, 1993 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335122 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL & INSTITUTIONAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335121 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS332212 HAND & EDGE TOOL MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COOPER INDUSTRIES PLC (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; OVERTIME; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LABOR OVERTIME (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); JOB CREATION (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



446 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Philadelphia;
Zoning Downtown to Channel Parking

BYLINE: By DAVID J. WALLACE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
CITY planners have turned the spotlight on the downtown parking situation with new regulations aimed at encouraging lots and garages in some areas and discouraging them elsewhere.
 They have made it harder for developers to utilize a favorite method of drawing income from land being held for future development. This, in turn, may discourage the demolition of uneconomic old buildings specifically to create parking. 
But they have also made it easier to establish parking facilities along the northern fringe of the business district, close to Interstate 95 and the Vine Street Expressway, in the hope that drivers will park there before plunging onward to narrow and congested streets in the heart of the business district.
 Philadelphia had been relatively lenient on parking regulations. Developers have encountered no difficulty in utilizing land they have been unable to reuse for parking to get temporary income.
 For example, Acme Markets spent six years looking for a buyer for its headquarters building, but chose to demolish the 11-story structure at 15th and Race Streets last year, leasing the site to the Philadelphia Parking Authority for a 125-space lot.
 Simultaneously, the city's inventory of covered parking facilities has grown substantially with the building surge of the 80's. The city went from 43,800 covered spaces in 1980 to 60,500 spaces in 1990, a 40 percent increase. Since then, even with the decline of private office construction, at least 2,000 more spaces have been added. The increase gave added impetus to the planners' desire to cut down on open-land parking.
 Under the new set of land planning regulations, lots and garages are "acceptable as an interim use" in the areas north of Market Street, the city's north-south dividing line, as far as Vine Street four blocks away. Interim use of a site must be approved by the planning commission before existing buildings can be demolished. No street-level lot may remain for more than five years and basement-level parking in new projects is not counted as developed floor space.
 BUT no street-level lots are allowed at all south of Chestnut Street -- one block south of Market Street -- for three blocks to Spruce Street, the boundary of the city's busiest and most historic and congested business and residential area. Nor is any new garage, except with special approval, which is considered unlikely in the district.
 Part of the goal is to deter developers from razing the two- and three- story brick buildings common in the area, said Richard Lombardo, chief of project planning in the Planning Department.
 In the Vine-Callowhill Streets area, north of downtown but close to Interstate 95, parking lots and garages are encouraged by excluding parking space from the bulk restrictions of the zoning envelope.
 "The goal of the regulations," Mr. Lombardo said, "was to protect the smaller-scale commercial development south of Chestnut Street that was built in the 1920's and 30's, before every building needed parking."
 "Most of the city's business core is in an area where parking lots are permitted," he said.
 The Philadelphia actions call attention to the problem of drawing revenue from land intended for redevelopment during sometimes extremely long periods of market weakness.
 As air-pollution regulations and traffic problems have curbed parking lots, developers have often tried to lease land for flea markets or low-cost tennis bubbles as interim uses. Even local gardens have sprouted on land held for development.
 "A lot of downtowns have a tremendous amount of space devoted to suface parking, and it may be a transitionary phase," said Bob Dunphy, senior research director of the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit land development research organization. "Parking is the Rodney Dangerfield of transportation -- it gets no respect, but it's critical to development."
 That transition may take years or decades. One of Philadelphia's prime development spots, at Broad and Locust Streets across from the Academy of Music, was vacant for more than 20 years until a hotel opened on the site in 1983. When it was vacant it was used as surface parking.
 THE parking industry tried last year to get the Philadelphia Planning Commission to accept the principle that all new buildings should have on-site parking. That was rejected because of the size of the existing supply.
 But in projects already planned but not built, still more on-site parking is to be produced. Hahnemann University Hospital will build an 800-space garage with room for its data center on the now vacant former site of the Philadelphia Athletic Club at Vine and Broad Streets near the downtown business core.
 On Market at 19th Street, the Philadelphia office of the Linpro Corporation plans to build a second office tower to complement one completed four years ago, and a new parking garage to go with it.
 So far the, 45-story, 761,000-square-foot project has no garage.
 Linpro has a hole in the ground at 20th and Market that was to have become an underground parking garage. It has asked for and been given a variance to fill it in as interim street-level parking lot.
 The decision by Philadelphia's largest private parking company, Parkway Corporation, to expand its surface lot at 15th and Spruce Streets last year shows that site development, and new interim parking space, has proceeded even when office development has slackened.
 JOSEPH S. ZURITSKY, Parkway's president, said it spent more than $925,000 to acquire and demolish two buildings adjacent to the lot, in an area of office and theater uses and heavy residential traffic. By expanding its holdings from Spruce to Latimer Street, Parkway has made the site more attractive for future commercial construction, Mr. Zuritsky said.
 The company also sees itself as a developer. In 1986, it announced plans for 300,000 square feet of residential apartments atop a garage and retail building on Walnut Street between Eighth and Ninth Streets.
 The garage and shops were completed but no schedule has been disclosed for the towers.
 Mr. Zuritsky would give no occupancy data about the 500 spaces that Parkway owned or operated downtown. He said the industry overall had suffered during the recession because of job and shopping cutbacks, home-based telecommuters and people shifting to mass transit.
 But Andrew Lenton of the planning commission said that a survey in 1990 showed that parking occupancy rates averaged 79 percent and that the rate probably had dropped since then.
 According to Mr. Lenton's survey, downtown parking occupancy rates rose from 68 percent in 1980 to 79 percent in 1990. More striking was the increase in the all-day price -- from an average of $4.69 in 1980 to $8.70 in 1990.
 Mr. Lombardo said the changes were a result of a comprehensive plan to revise restrictions created eight or nine years ago by a previous City Council that were inconsistent and required variances for most commercial projects outside the business district.
 One element of the current plan, he said, requires landscaped screening on parking-loot frontage along major streets.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on May 16 with an article about changes in zoning for parking facilities in Philadelphia misidentified the garage at Seventh and Market Streets. It is the Square Industries Garage.


GRAPHIC: 
Photo: The Square Industrial Garage at Seventh and Market Streets in Philadelphia, in a zone where street-level parking lots are prohibited. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA PARKING AUTHORITY INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; ZONING; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; OFFICE BUILDING;
AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1993



447 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Where the Streets Are Paved With Depositors

BYLINE: By Ken Bode; Ken Bode is director of the Center for Contemporary Media at DePauw University and a CNN correspondent who covered the savings and loan scandals.

 BODY:

S&L HELL
The People and the Politics
Behind the $1 Trillion
Savings and Loan Scandal.
By Kathleen Day.
416 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company.
$24.95. 
JIM HIGHTOWER, the Texas-populist radio commentator, often reminds his listeners of that period in the late 1980's when personal checks were clearing but all over the country banks were bouncing.
Kathleen Day covered that story for The Washington Post, then took a leave from The Post to empty her notebooks of those behind-the-scene events and descriptions that never make it into the columns of a daily newspaper, but do so much to enrich understanding of so complex an issue as the savings and loan debacle.
In "S&L Hell," Ms. Day recounts the institutions' origins, their regulatory history and the earliest days of the most recent crisis with anecdotes and vignettes that make a dry subject come to life. There was, for example, the day in 1985 that Gov. Richard Celeste of Ohio, facing the possibility of a run on his state's savings institutions, threatened to camp out on the doorstep of the Federal Reserve Board in Washington until its chairman, Paul A. Volcker, talked to him.
Ronald Reagan may have been the President who turned deregulation into a governing public philosophy, but it was Jimmy Carter who signed the bill deregulating savings and loan associations, facilitating the freebooting that led to their collapse. At the signing ceremony, President Carter assured America that the law would "strengthen our financial institutions."
Ms. Day tracks the passage of that 1980 law raising the federally insured level of deposits in commercial banks and savings institutions to $100,000, which in the thrift industry became a license for risk-free gambling with depositors' money -- or, as she puts it, "financial cocaine."
This book is at its best when Ms. Day takes the reader to a secret House-Senate meeting on that bill, for example, where the lawmakers are so fearful of being overheard that they pass one another notes.
Kathleen Day arrives at her own estimate of how much the savings and loan scandal will cost taxpayers, an estimate significantly higher than that put out by successive Administrations: more than $1 trillion over several decades, enough to add $13 billion a year in interest to the national debt forever. Threading through the labyrinth of this disaster, she provides fascinating profiles of many of the key players. Among them:
* Gaunt, balding and sanctimonious, Senator Jake Garn, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, nicknamed "the screaming skull" by banking lobbyists.
* Donald T. Regan, Treasury Secretary and later the autocratic White House chief of staff, who because of his Wall Street background considered savings and loans dinosaurs hardly worth saving and once, with an offhand comment to an industry newspaper, caused a one-day $400-million run on ailing institutions.
* Representative Fernand (Freddie) J. St Germain, Democrat of Rhode Island, who included the carnal enjoyment of women among the appetites he expected to be satisfied with money from savings and loan lobbyists. As chairman of the House Banking Committee until his 1988 defeat for re-election, he was so important to banking interests that a United States League of Savings Institutions lobbyist who worked the committee was said to withdraw thousands of dollars from petty cash regularly to support what he euphemistically called the Congressman's "deep-sea fishing."
* George Bush, the apparently out-of-the-loop Vice President, who dropped by a meeting of the Cabinet Council on Economic Affairs one day to ask, "How come my friends in the S.& L. industry tell me things are so dire?"
Kathleen Day makes clear why a financial crisis so severe and so costly escaped wide notice in the press for so long. In the early 1980's, regulators were estimating privately that only 40 or 50 of the country's 4,000 savings and loan associations were actually solvent. But Government officials maintained that disclosure would be reckless because the financial markets were so sensitive. From the earliest days of the crisis, regulators had one abiding fear -- that the press, especially television, would discover the severity of the problem, causing a run on savings institutions. Then, a problem that had been buried on the business pages would be piped into millions of American living rooms at dinner time.
If there are any good guys, among them might be the General Accounting Office, which constantly vexed the Bush Administration's efforts to play down the scope and cost of the scandal. In 1989, President Bush promised "to put the S.& L. crooks in jail." Almost three years later, just before Election Day, the agency reported that two-thirds of the major cases (involving amounts over $100,000) had been dropped and that while the courts had ordered nearly $850 million in fines and restitution, less than 5 percent of that amount had been collected.
Before we get the scandals officially off the books, there will be time for Kathleen Day to write a sequel to "S&L Hell."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: S&L HELL (BOOK)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); LOBBYING (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: BODE, KEN; DAY, KATHLEEN RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



448 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: How Garden Hobby Grew to Full-Time Job

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
SPRING may have been a little late this year, but at 80 Primrose Avenue here, a new evergreen rock garden is nearing completion.
The garden is one of many on almost an acre of plantings that serve as the showroom for the Primrose Landscape Design Company owned by the Gussoffs, Michael, age 42, and Beverly, somewhat older, a mother-and-son team who eight years ago turned their hobby into a blooming business. 
 "My interest in gardening dates back to when we moved into this house," Mr. Gussoff said. "I was 7 and helped my mother plant her first garden."
Mr. Gussoff added that although he grew up to be the largest (in height and girth) landscaper in Westchester, standing 6 feet 5 inches tall and weighing more than 200 pounds, he never thought of gardening as anything other than a hobby until recently.
"I do remember taking a career-aptitude test at college and I scored highest as a farmer," he said. "It may have been prophetic, but it gave me a laugh at the time because I was heading straight for the corporate world. I graduated from Marquette University in Milwaukee with a business degree and eventually became the national sales and marketing manager for Fisons Instruments in Saddle Brook, N.J., which is the fourth-largest scientific equipment company in the world."
 
An Expensive Hobby
 During the same period, his mother was a senior manager at the former Alexander's in White Plains. "However, I spent all my spare time in the garden or taking various courses in horticulture and design," Mrs. Gussoff said. "I became a gardener out of necessity 35 years ago when we bought our house. It had no landscaping to speak of and looked so barren and forlorn that I had to do something to it. In order to learn about plants and what to plant, I began taking courses in adult education and at the New York Botanical Garden, and I got hooked."
Mrs. Gussoff added, "I became an avid gardener and enlisted Michael, who was willing to learn, to help me carry out my ambitious schemes, such as the first rock garden we built and our woodland garden that borders the brook that runs through our back lawn."
Mrs. Gussoff eventually estimated that she was spending an average of $5,000 a year on the garden.
"I was forever upgrading and refurbishing and hunting for unusual specimens," she said. "When I realized that what I wanted wasn't available to me at any retail outlet, I managed to get myself into a trade show in Valley Forge, Pa., where I was in heaven. I saw choice grafted hemlocks and weeping Norway spruces and red pines for sale. I was ecstatic."
 
A Career Change
 The unusual gardens surrounding the Gussoff house soon won the notice of family and friends.
"We were asked to design a number of gardens and at first we were glad to oblige," Mr. Gussoff said. "It was what we wanted to do anyhow, and I remember spending hours at nurseries looking for the ideal plant for a particular spot in a friend's garden in New Jersey. But when we found ourselves spending all our free time and a considerable amount of money on gardens for friends, we realized our hobby was getting out of hand."
About the same time, Beverly recalled that she had to make an important decision. "My job had changed," she said. "And when Alexander's decided to close the White Plains store, I was asked to transfer to a store in the city, something I wasn't really keen on. And that was the catalyst that made us turn our hobby into a business."
For his part, Mr. Gussoff said: "I was fed up with having to travel 80 percent of the time in my job. The corporate environment had also changed and lost its strong attraction for me. I was interested in doing something more entrepreneurial."
At that point, Primrose Landscape Design began to take shape as a business.
"We pooled our money, $50,000, which we invested in equipment and marketing," Mr. Gussoff said. "We made our plans in the fall of 1986, and in the spring of 1987, we had had our first client, a couple in Ardsley who were landscaping their house because they could not sell it. When we finished that job -- and incidentally, the couple liked the refurbished landscaping so much they decided to stay in the house -- we got three more clients through that. One was a next-door neighbor and the other two close by."
Yet, the first year was difficult, Mrs. Gussoff recalled. "It's a very competitive business, and we were new," she said. "It wasn't until the second year that we were able to go into the black. And a lot of that was due to Michael's developing a successful direct-marketing campaign, which brought us a 5 percent return. Out of that, about 10 percent of those responding actually became customers."
Mr. Gussoff has the responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the business and the marketing, and his mother does most of the landscape design. "We specialize in four-season gardens that keep their looks all year, and we like to use dwarf varieties because they retain their shape and size, and the maintenance is low," Mrs. Gussoff said. "We choose plants for their shapes, colors and textures, and our specialty is our unusual selection of dwarf conifers. We buy plants from dozens of suppliers. Some of the best plants come from Oregon."
 
Client Questionnaires
 New customers are first asked to fill out a questionnaire in order to give the Gussoffs an idea of the type of landscaping the customer envisions.
"Our goal, of course, is to give customers what they want, provided that what they want will work," Mr. Gussoff said. "For instance, one customer who wanted a large English-style perennial border in front of her house had to be told it was not the right spot for it, and it would not look good the second season. Another customer who was determined to incorporate a pair of huge overgrown yews they had planted when they bought their house, had to be convinced in the new landscape plan that such plants were not only unattractive but potentially dangerous, as they concealed possible intruders."
In Primrose's first four years of operation, business grew about 250 percent. Last year, with the recession in full swing, the increase was smaller -- between 130 and 140 percent.
The assignments range from a 30-foot-by- 8-foot border to an entire landscaping project, costing from $5,000 to $10,000. Ninety-nine percent of Primrose's customers also contract for a maintenance program, which is priced at 10 percent of the installation cost, and that includes monthly service visits and biweekly tours of inspection.
"I think we have done about 36 gardens to date," Mr. Gussoff said. "The majority of them have been low-maintenance evergreen rock gardens. But we do stress using appropriate landscaping for each house. For instance, we are putting in an English formal garden for a client who has a large Tudor house. And we also did the backyard and play area for Hale House in Harlem, which is completely different. We also do the maintenance of Hale House pro bono."
 
Projects Continue Until Winter
 Digging time, he added, is late this year because of the long wet winter. But the Gussoffs say they plant until frost.
"This season is finally shaping up," Mr. Gussoff said. "Now we are averaging two or three jobs a week. The average job takes about 40 hours and includes the design plan, site preparation, the plant materials and a warranty for the survival of the plants for one growing season. And all the work is done by our own crews."
"As for me," Mrs. Gussoff said, "I enjoy the business so much I still feel it's a hobby."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Gussoff and his mother, Beverly, owners of Primrose Landscape Design Company, working at a home in Ardsley. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); WISCONSIN, USA (55%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PRIMROSE LANDSCAPE DESIGN CO SADDLE BROOK CONTROLS (55%); MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (55%); MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRIMROSE LANDSCAPE DESIGN CO MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (55%); MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); WISCONSIN, USA (55%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING GARDENING (90%); HORTICULTURE (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; GUSSOFF, MICHAEL; GUSSOFF, BEVERLY

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



449 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Viewpoints;
Barter Is Best With Cash-Poor Russia

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. LESSER; Lawrence M. Lesser is an adjunct professor of business and management at the University of Maryland.

 BODY:
WINSTON CHURCHILL once described Russia as "a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma." Much has changed since Churchill's time, but not the truth of this dictum. One of the hardest riddles posed today by Russia and the other former Soviet states is: How can America foster a good economic relationship with this promising but poor region?
On the one hand, the region is a huge potential market and a storehouse of resources. Russia alone grows more wheat and produces more oil than any other country, for example. Such facts aren't lost on American business, which had $3.6 billion in exports to the former Soviet states last year. The area's attractions have also made American businesses the largest group of foreign investors in Russia today. 
 But these new nations are strapped for cash. Since December, Russia has failed to meet interest payments on $4.2 billion of United States agricultural credit guarantees. It is now $600 million in default. Russia also has failed to pay more than $200 million owed to 57 American companies.
Big market, but no money. What is to be done? The answer to this new conundrum is barter -- the exchange of goods or services for other goods or services, rather than for currency. Barter is not mere theory. Many of our major competitors barter with the former Soviet states right now. And the reason they do so is the reason the United States, both its Government and its business, should do so: Barter can provide an important region with vital goods and services while minimizing nonpayment risks for suppliers.
The people of the former Soviet states are very familiar with barter because they bartered for years with their former Eastern European allies. Barter also was widely used between the producing and consuming areas of the former Soviet Union, and among individuals.
How would barter with the region work? American companies might modernize energy production facilities -- and get paid in oil. Or the United States Government might improve safety at the area's perilous nuclear power plants -- and take plutonium and uranium in return.
These are just two examples. The former Soviet states are in great need of immediate help on many economic fronts. They need housing for the returning members of the armed forces. They must upgrade their food distribution system, convert defense facilities to commercial purposes, and modernize telecommunications and transportation. By assuring vendors of payment, barter can speed completion of these critical tasks.
But barter carries other advantages. By accepting oil as payment, for instance, the United States reduces its reliance on the volatile Persian Gulf. By taking plutonium and uranium instead of cash, the United States helps avoid the nuclear proliferation that may occur if cash-desperate states sell these strategic materials on the world market.
With its obvious advantages, barter has garnered some support in the United States. President Clinton has approved of the general idea, and Michael Espy and Ronald Brown, the Secretaries of Agriculture and Commerce, respectively, have specifically expressed interest in barter with the former Soviet states. Under a 1992 measure sponsored by Senator James Exon, an Administration task force will complete a report on this subject by month's end.
But, despite this recent interest, the Internal Revenue Service and the Customs Service have long discouraged international barter transactions, through audits and other measures. These agencies fear that American businesses will fail to pay income taxes and import duties on bartered goods. Unfamiliar with barter and worried about resale of the payment, business has been leery of international barter as well.
WITH some rare exceptions -- such as Pepsico's 21-year exchange of soft drinks for Soviet ships and vodka, and chicken-for-oil talks between Tyson Foods and Russia, announced last week -- these factors have stymied the use of international barter by America.
But some of our competitors are not so stymied. Canada has traded wheat for Russian timber and cotton, and is now negotiating a wheat-for-diamonds deal. And Australia recently traded 1.5 million metric tons of wheat for aluminum.
America must learn what its competitors already know: In this rapidly changing world, it needs creative approaches to international finance. Fears of tax evasion are real and should be accommodated, as should legitimate business concerns. But in the end barter must be expanded. It is the solution to the new Russian riddle.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; RUSSIA; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BARTER ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (85%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); POWER PLANTS (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: LESSER, LAWRENCE M (PROF) BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



450 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Anne L. Pierce;
A Space Career Booster, Against the Odds

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
THREE decades after President John F. Kennedy set in motion a space program that finally put a man on the moon, President Clinton, who likens himself to Kennedy in many other respects, is deliberating about whether the nation needs expensive programs like the space station.
That is distressing to Anne L. Pierce, the executive director of the Connecticut Space Grant College Consortium. 
 The consortium -- which was formed in 1990 and is composed of the University of Hartford, University of Connecticut, Trinity College and the University of New Haven -- was organized to stimulate research among the faculty and the students at those campuses, and to promote student interest in science courses that could lead to space-related careers.
Ms. Pierce, who did undergraduate work at Westminster College in Pennsylvania and graduate studies in botany at Arizona State University and Vanderbilt University in Nashville, is working on a degree in higher education administration at UConn. Three years ago she became the first director of the consortium.
In a recent interview at the Legislative Office Building in Hartford, Ms. Pierce answered questions about the consortium, and its goals. Here are some excerpts from the conversation.
Q. What got you interested in space?
A. I was born the day Sputnik went up. And then I was in elementary school when John Glenn went around the globe, and our teacher made us keep a scrapbook that she anticipated would be for the school year. I kept it right through high school. That motivated me to go into science, and when this job came along I jumped at it.
Q. Did you want to be an astronaut when you were younger?
A. No, I never really wanted to be an astronaut. I was more fascinated with the hardware. My parents lived in Florida, so I had been to Kennedy Space Center. You could watch launches right out of their backyard.
Q. Can a student who is interested in space courses take different courses at other schools in the consortium?
A. At some of them. Trinity and the University of Hartford, for instance, have an arrangement where you can take courses at either one. And of course you can always take a course and transfer the credit, depending on where you are in your agreement.
But we don't have any formal space grant consortium agreement yet. Some time in the future we'd like to, but we're just now beginning to address the curriculum aspects of it.
Q. Isn't this a bad time to get people interested in a career in space?
A. Some people would say "today the space industry isn't doing very well, why would you want to encourage students?" But it won't always be that way. By the time today's freshman is ready to graduate, some kind of space station will be ready to go, and the trip to Mars will be a few years further along.
Q. Why do you think Mr. Clinton is calling for scaling back spending on space programs?
A. Well, it's hard to tell if he's really backing away. Until all the legislation has gone through the process it's hard to tell. But I think the budget deficit is his biggest concern, and I don't think people realize how much it costs to do something for the very first time, when you don't know what the results are going to be. You have to amortize those costs over time, because the benefits are realized over time. You have to look at the spinoffs.
Q. Have there been a lot of valuable spinoffs from the space program?
A. Where would we be without Velcro, or some of the optical coatings that have come out of the space program? A lot of materials like Kevlar, we would not have had. A lot of optical coatings, thermal and insulating substances. A lot of laser technology, cutting tools, we would not have had if they had not been developed for the space program.
Every year NASA puts out a book called "Spinoffs," a thick book that only lists some of the applications that have come out of the space program in the previous year. I don't know that anyone has ever calculated the combined value, because it's too soon even now to say. Even the materials from the early years of the space program are still being improved upon.
Q. How much of a blow would it be to the space program if the space station is eliminated from the budget?
A. Because that's only one part of the program, I don't see that being a blow to the entire space program, or to the consortium. But it would be a blow to Connecticut. The estimates I've seen are that the space station contracts will bring about $200 million to Connecticut, through that one program. As far as the colleges are concerned, it will mean fewer research opportunities for the faculty and students. For instance, this summer the consortium is funding students to go to San Francisco and learn how to configure experiments for the space station. It's very exciting for students. If the space station is scaled back it will take a little gloss off the program. But I think there will always be students interested in doing something for the first time.
Q. How important is space to the Connecticut economy over all?
A. Contracts contribute $120 million a year to the state. Connecticut ranks number 15 over all in terms of NASA contracts for education and research.
Q. Why don't people think of the importance of the space program in the state, versus, say, defense?
A. People don't realize Pratt and Whitney is working on the national aerospace plane through the NASA budget. They don't realize that at Hughes Danbury Optical, they're doing work on the Hubble telescope as well as coatings and optical devices for other astronomical projects. Maybe it's our fault for not communicating strongly enough how important the space program is to the state.
Q. If space is so important in Connecticut, why don't we have a Goddard or Langley type research operation?
A. A lot of the NASA research centers were established historically. Langley was the first one. I don't know why Connecticut wasn't chosen in those early years, except that it's not in an area of the country where you would have had a launch, because of the weather, and because it's so densely populated.
Q. Where does the money for the consortium come from?
A. It comes from NASA, out of the education division. It was an allotment made by Congress, so it wasn't carved out of another NASA program. It was modeled after the old land grant and sea grant programs.
It was Lloyd Bentsen's dream, really, that space would become as much a motivator and public resource as the agricultural extension program or the fisheries program. Eventually it may be that way. It is that way in some of the bigger states.
Q. What are the big states for space programs?
A. Texas is the largest. They have 200 colleges and universities in their consortium. Probably California is the second largest, because that's the whole University of California system. Colorado is No. 3 -- a lot of space business goes on in Colorado, with the Air Force Academy there. Connecticut would probably never rival any of those states unless we get a research center here. You don't really need a launch site anymore, so if NASA were expanding it is possible. The University of Hartford has made an offer: if you're looking to expand, here we are.
Q. How active is Connecticut industry in the consortium?
A. Very active. There are 16 board members for the consortium, and half of them are industry folks. We have a wealth of experience here. Most of these businesses were here at the start of the space program. They also support us financially as well as with summer jobs for students.
Q. When Mr. Clinton talks about cutting the space station, do you think that reflects a national mood that we're spending too much on space?
A. I think the mood is that we don't want to see Government funds wasted. When people read that we've paid too much for a certain piece of hardware or that in someone's opinion the money would be better spent somewhere else, I think that is what bothers the general public.
I don't think anyone would argue that going to space is too expensive. I think that people would say we have to be very careful about how the money is spent.
Q. Aside from dollars, though, are people still getting excited about things like the trip to Mars?
A. I think the trip to Mars is too far off for people to get excited about it. That's still very Buck Rogers in a lot of people's minds. I think it's easier to get excited about the space station because they can envision the shuttle coming alongside and disgorging passengers. They can envision, because of Skylab, what it will be like to have a laboratory in the sky.
I think the enthusiasm of the public goes in spurts, though. The day of a launch people gather around the television and excitement is high. The next day, people are a little more blase about it. I think that's because we have so many launches now. It's become so matter of fact.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne L. Pierce, the executive director of the Connecticut Space Grant College Consortium, in her office. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARS (78%); TENNESSEE, USA (76%); ARIZONA, USA (56%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT SPACE GRANT COLLEGE CONSORTIUM XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT SPACE GRANT COLLEGE CONSORTIUM UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARS (78%); TENNESSEE, USA (76%); ARIZONA, USA (56%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); SPACECRAFT (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CURRICULA (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); BOTANY (70%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; PIERCE, ANNE L JOHN F KENNEDY (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



451 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 22; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: DINING OUT;
Bountiful Platters and Moderate Prices

BYLINE: By JOANNE STARKEY

 BODY:
IL TULIPANO of Huntington has bid farewell to its traditional ways and become Trattoria Tulipano, a family style Italian restaurant.
It is not just another Long Island restaurant that has jumped on the family dining bandwagon. Rather, it is the paradigm of the genre with a renowned chef and experienced owners. The savvy restaurateurs also operate two of the Island's top Italian restaurants, Navona in Great Neck and Stresa in Manhasset. 
 The new chef, Mario Maggi, earned his culinary stripes at Bice in Manhattan and later at Bice of Tokyo. Mr. Maggi joins three old friends, Giorgio Meriggi, Pasquale Cervera and Tony D'Arcangelo, as part owner of the Huntington restaurant.
Trattoria Tulipano combines the bountiful platters and moderate prices of family dining with the ambiance of a traditional northern Italian restaurant. There are no poster-size menus on the walls.The decor features floor-to-ceiling mirrors crisscrossed with wood lattices, pale-green walls dotted with subdued paintings, dusty-rose tablecloths and dramatic flower arrangements.
Service is another break with family dining style. Instead of plunking down platters, waiters serve portions, replace silver and plates after every course and keep the water glasses filled. Such superior service may have resulted from being recognized at this restaurant. Yet, service at other tables also seemed well above the norm.
The food is also a switch from the expected. Diners can order menu listings intended to serve two or more, or they can opt for nightly specials geared to singles.
Specials one evening included a baby chicken, red snapper, a veal chop and salmon en croute. The salmon, topped with spinach and wrapped in phyllo pastry, was one of the few disappointments. It was overcooked. The thick succulent veal chop smothered in mushrooms and sun-dried tomatoes, however, was a superb pick.
A holdover from former days is the outstanding fried zucchini. This crispy wispy treat is listed with the vegetables, but the economical platter ($5) is big enough to be an appetizer for four.
Other recommended openers are the delicate rolls of eggplant wrapped around oozing goat cheese and sauced with fresh tomatoes and onions and the platters of creamy polenta with a tangy Gorgonzola or hardy Bolognese sauce. Additionally, a special grilled portobello mushroom zingy with garlic and placed atop tricolor salad earned a best-ever rating.
Speaking of salad, there are two rarely seen standouts on the menu. The insalata alla paesana is a toss of romaine, endive, radicchio, grilled eggplant, roasted peppers and fava beans. The other rarity is a Tuscan bread salad that includes thin slices of toast, chunks of cucumber and tomato, slices of red onion and assorted greens.
Although appetizers, salads and entrees all boasted obvious superstars, pastas were pleasing but none were show-stoppers.
The red-meat headliner is a dish called Robesbierre alla moda del Tulipano, which is designated a house specialty on the menu. The platter features butter-tender slices of sirloin steak sprinkled with rosemary and black peppercorns, all encircling a centerpiece of diced fresh tomatoes. The other house specialty, lamb shanks stewed in wine, was undercooked and chewy.
A gentrified chicken scarpariello, served off the bone with lots of garlic and rosemary, was fine, as was scaloppina alla paesana, tender veal scallops under a spirited topping of mushrooms, onions and fresh tomatoes.
Desserts are the same renowned homemade treats that were always served at Il Tulipano. Best are the lush tiramisu, the satiny creme brulee, the homemade ice creams and the flourless chocolate cake under its drift of freshly whipped cream.
It has always been possible to purchase a bottle of wine from Tulipano's largely Italian list of 56 selections for as little as $12. The restaurant's transformation has not changed that. Diners will not regret choosing one or more of the Ruffinos. A lively Libaio white n/v ($19) and a youthful 1991 Aziano single vintage Chianti Classico ($18) tasted as though they were made to be drunk with family style fare.
 Trattoria Tulipano
Very Good
93 East Main Street, Route 25A, quarter-mile east of Park Avenue, Huntington. 351-3663.
Atmosphere: Elegant family style dining.
Service: Caring professionals.
Recommended dishes: All desserts, fried zucchini, polenta, stuffed eggplant, portobello mushroom, bread salad, insalata alla paesana, Robesbierre alla moda del Tulipano, chicken scarpariello, veal chop, scaloppina alla paesana.
Price range: All dishes serve two. Appetizers $8 to $12.50, pastas $11.95 to $14.50 and entrees $12.50 to $30.
Credit cards: All major cards.
Hours: 4:30 to 10 P.M. on Tuesdays through Thursdays, 4:30 to 11 on Fridays and Saturdays and 3 to 9:30 on Sundays. Closed on Mondays.
Reservations: Recommended.
Wheelchair accessibility: No steps.
 
Ratings:
 
Poor
Satisfactory
Good
Very Good
Excellent
Extraordinary
Ratings are based on the reviewer's reaction to food and price in relation to comparable establishments.
 The Times Restaurant Line offers capsule reviews by cuisine, price and location (in New York City and suburbs), published in the last 18 months. Touch-line telephones only: 1-900-988-0101 (75 cents a minute).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRATTORIA TULIPANO (HUNTINGTON, NY, RESTAURANT)

ORGANIZATION: TRATTORIA TULIPANO (HUNTINGTON, NY, RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHEESE (86%); 

PERSON: STARKEY, JOANNE

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



452 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 25; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Helping Families Avoid Plight of Homelessness

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG

DATELINE: GREENBURGH

 BODY:
THE early-morning sunlight streams into the dining room of the modest home where Naomi Washington has lived for more than 30 years. A vase with pink tulips is carefully arranged on the dining table, offering a suggestion of spring. In the living room, where large recliners flank a sectional sofa, mirrors reflect matching bookcases that contain encyclopedias.
In this white, six-bedroom house in the Fairview section of Greenburgh, children's riding toys share driveway space with the family car, evidence of Mrs. Washington's three great-grandchildren, who share her home with their grandmother, Joyce Pegram, the eldest of Mrs. Washington's five daughters. 
 Despite the efforts that the family has made to keep its home neat and tidy, it is hard not to notice the wobbly counters in the kitchen, the broken tiles in the bathrooms or the obviously new windows that just as obviously are missing proper wood frames -- reminders of the shabby renovation work that almost cost Mrs. Washington and Mrs. Pegram their home.
What prevented Mrs. Washington and Mrs. Pegram from becoming part of the county's homeless statistics was the intervention of a nonprofit program called the Bridge Fund, a program of Grace Church Community Center in White Plains.
The fund was started in January 1991 by Nan and Oscar Pollock and the Rev. Peter Larom, former rector of Grace Episcopal Church and now director of the Seaman's Church Institute of New York and New Jersey, to help people avoid homelessness by making available small, short-term loans limited to $2,000. According to the county's Department of Social Services, close to 60 percent of those families who become homeless have been evicted from their homes.
 
A Referral Is Necessary
 "If a pot of money were available when someone has a crisis, chances are they wouldn't end up in a hotel," said Stanley Schear, director of the Bridge Fund. "And once people are in a system, it's hard to get out. Because of the economic decline, lots of people lost income in the last few years and couldn't handle a crisis. Eighty percent of the people who come to us are working people who live from paycheck to paycheck. When they are in trouble, they need a little help and maybe some hand holding from us. Their biggest fear is 'I don't want to be homeless.' "
To receive help, people must be referred to the Bridge Fund by a major social services agency or a charity like the United Way, Catholic Charities, the Salvation Army or the Red Cross, or a church or synagogue or Westchester Legal Services or the county's mediation service, called Cluster, which monitors the court system. Applications from walk-ins are not accepted.
"In preventing homelessness, speed is of the essence," said Oscar Pollock, a Katonah resident and partner in the Wall Street firm of Ingalls & Snyder. "The Bridge Fund was created in response to the needs of advocates of the homeless. They all felt that many homeless situations could be prevented. The Bridge Fund works best with a family or individual whose problems are largely financial. We are financial advisers to people in trouble who are at risk of losing their homes. We help individuals get a job, do budgeting, get their expenses in line with their incomes and work out a financial plan.
"It works best with the working poor of the county -- most of our clients fall into that broad category. When somebody becomes a client of the Bridge Fund, it becomes a challenge to us. We make every effort to see our client succeed. We want to prevent them from spiraling downward. That's the key. We want to avoid having good people, who are trying, fall into the public-shelter system; it's not easy to work your way out."
 
A Typical Example
 Dorothy T., a 45-year-old White Plains resident whose last name was withheld to protect her privacy, is typical of the Bridge Fund's clients. When an accident left her unable to continue working as a bookkeeper, she was discharged and found it difficult to pay rent on her apartment. As a single mother of a disabled son, she applied to the Department of Social Services for assistance but was told that her rent was too high.
"They said they couldn't help me," Mrs. T. said. "They told me if I was evicted, I would be put up in a hotel. It's terrible not knowing if someone will throw you out of your apartment. It's hard when you work all your life and pay your taxes and try to get help and can't get it. The Bridge Fund gave me some money to help pay my rent and helped me with social services to get nursing assistance and other help. This was the bridge over rough water. Mr. Schear was our guardian angel. If it wasn't for Mr. Schear, we would have been a homeless statistic."
The Bridge Fund, which is privately financed by contributions from individuals and foundations, made loans and a few outright grants totaling $97,154 in 126 cases last year. Eighty-nine of those loans helped prevent evictions or foreclosures, and 17 assisted people who needed more affordable housing. An additional 20 loans, for security deposits and moving expenses, were offered to families that wanted to move out of the shelter system into permanent housing.
Although the Bridge Fund primarily offers assistance to those who face evictions, some of their clients, like Mrs. Pegram and Mrs. Washington, are homeowners who face the prospect of a bank foreclosure. When Mrs. Pegram became a widow a few years ago, she decided to move in with her mother, who had also been widowed. With the original home mortgage down to a negligible amount, the family decided to apply for a loan to upgrade the property. They ended up with a 15-year mortgage at a 15.5 percent annual interest rate, which substantially raised their monthly expenses -- and quickly caused them to fall behind in payments to the bank and Con Edison.
"We were looking to fix up the kitchen, our three bathrooms, roof and windows," said Mrs. Pegram, a postal employee in Elmsford and the mother of six grown children. "The contractors were with us for a year, and it didn't take that long for all the money to be gone. The contractor had left debris on the side of the house, which caused a fire, and then he added the damage to the bill. We paid them in full, but the windows still aren't framed, and now the kitchen looks worse than it did before. The tiles are all broken and there is constant leakage under the sink."
By the time Mrs. Pegram and Mrs. Washington were referred to the White Plains office of the Bridge Fund by a housing counselor in the Office for the Aging, they were a few weeks from foreclosure. Mr. Schear worked with the family to consolidate its two mortgages by applying to Chemical Bank, which provides mortgage money from its affirmative mortgage pool for at-risk families. Mr. Schear and a counselor from the Bridge Fund worked with the family on a budget that would bring expenses into line with the family's income. Mrs. Pegram said: "Every week I come and go through the bills with Mr. Schear. He is just like my father. I think of him as family. When this ends, we will miss him. But as soon as we get back on our feet, we will pay back our loan." All loans that the Bridge Fund makes to its clients are interest free -- and last year, repayments totaled close to $42,000.
Paul Feiner, Town Supervisor of Greenburgh, added: "I've worked with them very often and think it's a fabulous group. This is much more cost effective and makes more sense by enabling people to avoid homelessness. Once people are homeless, they stay in the system. It's hard to escape. You want to avoid people going into the system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joyce Pegram, right, and her mother, Naomi Washington, of Greenburgh, who are being aided by the Bridge Fund. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRACE CHURCH (WHITE PLAINS, NY) SEAMEN'S CHURCH INSTITUTE OF NEW YORK/NEW JERSEY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRACE CHURCH (WHITE PLAINS, NY) SEAMEN'S CHURCH INSTITUTE OF NEW YORK/NEW JERSEY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WHITE PLAINS (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (87%); EVICTION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GRANDPARENTS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); CHARITIES (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI; PEGRAM, JOYCE

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



453 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 1993,

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 26; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine

LENGTH: 2218 words

HEADLINE: Finding Washington at Home

BYLINE: By T. H. Breen; T. H. Breen is the author of "Tobacco Culture: The Mentality of the Great Tidewater Planters on the Eve of Revolution" (Princeton).

 BODY:
MOUNT VERNON, VA., draws visitors today for many of the same reasons that it attracted them during George Washington's lifetime. They come in search of a personality, looking for the man obscured by myth and the passage of time. During a visit to the most famous private home in America, I, too, found myself viewing Mount Vernon not so much as a historic building but, rather, as a key to understanding an extraordinarily elusive man.
During the final years of Washington's life, hundreds of people navigated the muddy roads of northern Virginia to reach Mount Vernon. Some were friends from the Revolution; others were foreign dignitaries curious to meet the great republican leader. A few were simply pests. Whatever motivated the trip, travelers always encountered a gracious welcome. Washington accepted the burden of entertainment as a civic responsibility, and he seemed genuinely surprised when visitors did not appear. "Unless someone pops in, unexpectedly," he wrote in 1797, "Mrs. Washington and myself will do what I believe has not been [done] within the last 20 years by us, that is to set down to dinner by ourselves." 
 However warm the initial greeting, dinner at Mount Vernon must have been an ordeal. Seated around a long table in what Washington called his "new room" -- a large dining room papered in a brilliant green that shocks modern visitors who assume that 18th-century interiors must have been drab -- his guests tried to spark light conversation. They quickly discovered that Washington had no talent for small talk. At such moments he must have seemed a painfully wooden figure. Benjamin Henry Latrobe, architect of the United States Capitol, recorded that Washington "was frequently entirely silent for many minutes during which time an awkwardness seemed to prevail in everyone present." In 1790, another traveler described Washington as a "god," a term of respect, to be sure, but also an indication of just how hard it was to relax in the presence of a national deity.
During the long pauses, Washington's guests may have concluded that Mount Vernon expressed the man's character more articulately than he did himself. After all, the plantation was the emotional center of his life. No matter how pressing the crises Washington confronted as general and President, he allowed not a single day to pass without thinking of Mount Vernon. Seeds had to be purchased, trees planted, fields plowed, overseers instructed and rooms redecorated. No detail of plantation management escaped Washington's attention. And not surprisingly, like Thomas Jefferson's Monticello and Landon Carter's Sabine Hall, also 18th-century Virginia estates, Mount Vernon acquired the stamp of its owner's personality.
Mount Vernon had once been the possession of Lawrence Washington, George's half brother. It had been Lawrence who named the modest country house after Adm. Edward Vernon, the British naval hero. Like the homes of other moderately successful Virginia planters, Mount Vernon consisted of four small rooms built around a central hall. The structure's most distinguishing feature was its marvelous location on a hill overlooking the Potomac River. In 1754, George Washington moved to Mount Vernon, and, as he prospered, Mount Vernon expanded. In 1759, Washington constructed an entire new story, and then, on the eve of the American Revolution, he began large additions on both the north and south sides of the house. These contained the General's study, his bedroom and the large dining room. All these changes occurred without disturbing the original core of Lawrence's Mount Vernon.
No one knows exactly where Washington got his ideas for the house. Like other provincial Americans, he probably drew inspiration from pattern books published in Great Britain. Whatever the source, Washington decided to make the wooden exterior look like stone. By beveling the boards and then putting sand in the paint, he tried to transform a Virginia structure into a proper English country house. He also devised a plan for a long, high-columned piazza running the full length of the house, an architectural feature so common in modern America that it is hard to appreciate Washington's originality in Colonial America. While these various projects were going forward, Washington busily imported manufactured goods, china and pewter, metal items and glassware, the sundries that revealed to those who understood such matters that the owner of Mount Vernon had good taste.
The house itself remains the high point for most modern visitors to Mount Vernon. Self-guided tours direct the public through the large dining room -- where, in 1789, Washington learned that he had been elected the first President of the United States -- out onto the piazza where they absorb the magnificent and now fiercely protected view across the Potomac. Visitors then re-enter the central passage and wind their way up the stairs to the small guest rooms on the second floor. They pass the surprisingly Spartan bedroom, with its principally bare wood floors, in which Washington died, and, finally, return to the ground floor for an inspection of his study. Only about a quarter of the objects currently to be seen were actually in the house during Washington's lifetime. Curators continuously search for missing items, possessions long since given away or taken as souvenirs in the early 19th century. One curious survivor displayed in the central hall is a key to the Bastille, a gift from Washington's devoted friend General Lafayette. "It is a tribute which I owe as a son to my adoptive father . . ," the Frenchman explained, "as a missionary of liberty to its patriarch." Whatever original artifacts may have disappeared, the interior of Mount Vernon looks very much like it would have at the time of Washington's death in 1799.
Few 18th-century visitors appreciated what a sacrifice he made to keep up appearances. Visible evidence of good taste was as expensive then as it is now, and, throughout his 45 years at Mount Vernon, Washington had trouble balancing accounts. He told contemporaries that he prided himself on being a farmer, a man of the soil, a Cincinnatus who gladly exchanged the sword for the plow. There is no reason to doubt Washington's sincerity. Indeed, he was never more revealing about his personal beliefs than when he celebrated the virtues of agriculture.
Whatever rhetoric he may have employed, Washington was no yeoman farmer. Late-18th-century travelers who inspected the entire 8,000-acre plantation -- the four outlying farms as well as the central "mansion house farm" -- would have seen a complex commercial operation. Mount Vernon was a business. In 1799, more than 300 slaves labored to turn a profit for their master, and no captain of industry ever monitored the bottom line more closely than did Washington.
Today's visitors learn a lot about Washington as well as the many slaves whom he owned. A small museum -- easy to miss, but well worth the effort to find -- includes a remarkable archeological exhibit displaying various materials salvaged from a trash pit once located near the slave quarters. The site yielded an impressive range of imported English goods, pieces of white salt-glazed stoneware and creamware, for example. Researchers also discovered brass buckles, glass bottles and clay pipes. Many of these items, especially the ceramics, probably first appeared in the house itself, but over time, chipped plates and castoff objects came into the possession of the slaves.
The point of the archeological research is not that slaves lived better than we had previously thought. They always led a precarious existence. Rather, the appearance of manufactured ceramics and metalware reminds us that 18th-century slaves as well as their masters were linked to a huge Atlantic economy in which crops produced locally were exchanged internationally for a wide range of consumer items. What I encountered at Mount Vernon was a surprisingly fluid world. Where I anticipated stasis, I found evidence of change: an evolving house, circulating goods and constant agricultural experimentation. In fact, during my visit, I met an anxious George Washington, the manager of a great agricultural enterprise trying to accommodate the everyday demands of plantation life to the pressures of an increasingly complex international economy.
In one important respect, however, he was unusual. Washington envisioned commercial farming without slave labor. When he died, he did what most of his contemporaries in Virginia failed to do: Washington freed his slaves.
Without his constant attention, Mount Vernon fell on hard times. The visible deterioration of the mansion house shocked one French official who reported in 1840, "All is as shabby as possible; the park is grown over with weeds; the house tumbling down; everything dirty and in a miserable condition." The owner, John Augustine Washington Jr., George's great-grandnephew, offered the property for $200,000, a very large sum considering the condition of Mount Vernon, to the state of Virginia and the Federal Government, but neither volunteered to provide the money.
A remarkable woman saved the day. After viewing the ruin of Mount Vernon, Ann Pamela Cunningham's mother wrote to her invalid daughter in 1853, "Why was it that the women of his country did not try to keep it in repair, if the men could not do it? It does seem such a blot on our country!" Miss Cunningham accepted the challenge, dedicating the remainder of her life to the preservation of Washington's home. It was a hard battle. The owner was none too keen to sell Mount Vernon to the group of women who had organized under Cunningham's banner. The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association of the Union managed to raise the money, however, and, in 1858, the last member of the Washington family to own the property informed the victorious Cunningham, "Heretofore I have only been willing to dispose of Mount Vernon to the United States or to Virginia, as I believed that in the hands of one or the other it would be better protected and preserved than in the possession of any individual or association . . . [But] under the circumstances, and believing that after the two highest powers in the country, the women of the land will probably be the safest, as they will certainly be the purest, guardians of a national shrine, I am willing . . . to comply with your request."
Today, almost a million people a year visit Washington's home, still owned by the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association. The mansion house, the beautifully maintained grounds, the grazing cattle, the striking view across the Potomac, even the tomb where George and Martha are buried, all provide clues to the character of the man who transformed this site. As it has done for nearly 250 years, Mount Vernon invites travelers to confront a gracious but still elusive George Washington.
 
A VIRGINIA GENTLEMAN'S ESTATE
 MOUNT VERNON (telephone: 703-780-2000), Mount Vernon, Va., is 16 miles south of Washington, on the George Washington Memorial Parkway South. It is open daily from 8 to 5 through August, with shorter hours in the fall and winter. Admission is $7.
Self-guided tours lead visitors through the mansion, museum and around the grounds. The museum contains a diorama documenting the construction of the mansion and detailing how various elements -- plaster moldings, roof shingles -- were made; there is also a collection of personal items belonging to George and Martha Washington and portraits, among them Houdon's bust of Washington, which was modeled at Mount Vernon in 1785. A 30-minute guided walking tour concentrating on Washington's landscape design for Mount Vernon and his horticultural and farming activities is given twice hourly from 9 to 4 through August; the Museum Shop specializes in gardening goods, including seeds, herbs and cuttings propagated from Washington's own gardens.
 
REFRESHMENTS
 Just outside the estate, the MOUNT VERNON INN, operated under the auspices of the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association, includes a snack shop, restaurant and gift shop. The snack shop, which offers inexpensive sandwiches, salads and ice cream, is open daily from 9:30 to 5:30; the restaurant is open daily for lunch and on Mondays through Saturdays for dinner. Reservations (call 703-780-0011) are suggested for dinner, which might include peanut and chestnut soup, Roquefort and walnut salad, game pie and chocolate pate with pistachio sauce, served by mobcapped waitresses (about $75 for two, with wine).
 
THE POTOMAC ROUTE
 From Washington, visitors can cruise down the Potomac to Mount Vernon on the POTOMAC SPIRIT, operated by Spirit Cruises, which sails from Pier 4, Sixth and Water Streets, S.W. From now through June 13, and from Aug. 31 through Oct. 1, the ship departs at 9 A.M Tuesdays through Sundays, docking at Mount Vernon at 10:15, leaving Mount Vernon at 12:15 P.M. and returning to Washington at 1:30. From June 15 through Aug. 29, a second ship leaves Washington at 2 P.M., returning at 6:30. From Oct. 2 through Oct. 17, the Potomac Spirit sails on Saturdays and Sundays only, at 9 A.M. The fare, which includes the round-trip cruise and entrance to Mount Vernon, is $20.25. Call 202-554-8000 for reservations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wood treated toresemble stone facesthe west front.; The study.; A window witha broken pedimentornaments the northside of the house.; An ovalportrait of Washingtonby Rembrandt Peale.; Thecupola, topped by adove of peace. (WEST FRONT, STUDY, PORTRAIT BY HAL CONROY/MOUNT VERNON LADIES' ASSOCIATION; WINDOW BY RICHARD BRYANT/ARCAID; CUPOLA BY CATHERINE KARNOW/WOODFIN CAMP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON LADIES' ASSOCIATION (59%); MOUNT VERNON LADIES' ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOUNT VERNON LADIES' ASSOCIATION (59%); MOUNT VERNON LADIES' ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; MOUNT VERNON (VA) (HOME OF GEORGE WASHINGTON); NYTRAVEL INTERIOR DECORATING (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); 

PERSON: WASHINGTON, GEORGE (1732-99); BREEN, T H EDDIE GEORGE (92%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1993



454 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: In Sri Lanka, Partition Can Stop the Violence

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The United Nations working group on enforced or involuntary disappearances, reporting on Sri Lanka for 1983 to 1991, characterized killings on that unhappy island nation off the south coast of India as "by far the highest number ever recorded by the working group for any single country." But the United States news media give this tragedy little coverage. "The Tragedy of Sri Lanka" (editorial, May 5) is a welcome change. 
 Political violence in Sri Lanka started in 1956, when it was still Ceylon. The political system, a legacy of British colonial rule, which coalesced two nation-groups and then granted permanent power to one, is the cause of this discord. The Sinhalese, who acquired the dominant role, embarked on making Sri Lanka a country of one religion and one language. Sinhala was legislated as the official language, Buddhism as the state religion. Discriminatory policies deprived the minority Tamils of education and employment, and the Government began a policy of state-aided colonization of Tamil areas.
Protests were quelled with violent reprisals. There were no fewer than 27 pogroms against Tamil civilians between 1956 and 1983, and 40,000 people were killed. In 1977, the Tamils voted en masse to secede from Sri Lanka. The Government retaliated with repressive steps, resulting in the treatment of Tamil areas as virtual occupied enemy territory. The Tamil response to this was a violent guerrilla war for a separate state. The Government started aerial bombing and naval shelling of these areas. The resultant economic ruin is compounded by an embargo on food and medical supplies.
The irony is that the conflict is easily resolvable. The two warring parties occupy well demarcated areas of the island, the land mass of which is almost twice that of Switzerland, with its federated states. The easiest solution is to segregate the Sinhalese and Tamils by separate self-rule for each area. The two sides, however, are unable to agree on a suitable political structure.
As a result, violence has escalated between the two groups and has spread to political parties and factions within both. This ominous development, compounded by the huge influx of arms and explosives into this once-idyllic island, is what culminated in the May Day assassinations (front page, May 2).
The problem is unlikely to be solved without intervention. The ill-fated effort by India in 1987 failed primarily because India, burdened by its own secessionist groups, used a half-hearted, sometimes partisan, approach. In the end India got embroiled in an unnecessary war with the Tamil Tigers and had to abandon its involvement.
The situation demands an honest broker. Some countries, notably Australia, Norway and Canada have expressed willingness to play this role. Their hands should be strengthened, or the United Nations should intervene.
 
RAJAN K. SRISKANDARAJAH
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., May 6, 1993
 
The writer is editor of Tamil Voice, the newsletter of the Association of Tamils in the U.S.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SRI LANKA (99%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SRI LANKA SRI LANKA (99%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; TAMILS (ETHNIC GROUP) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); WRITERS (78%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHNICITY (73%); RELIGION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



455 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-11
 
SERB DENOUNCES PEACE EFFORT 

As the count began for the referendum in Bosnia on the Vance-Owen peace plan, the Serbian nationalist leader there declared the plan dead and said outside powers should realize that Bosnia had ceased to exist as a state. A1
 
U.S. HOLDS FIRM
 
The Clinton Administration appeared to hunker down despite taunts from the leader of Bosnia's Serbs, adhering to its position that the Bosnia referendum would make little difference in U.S. policy. A6
 
FIGHTING ON TWO FRONTS
 
Croatian gunners hit Muslim neighborhoods near the Neretva River, and Bosnian Serbs hit the town of Brcko in an attempt to widen the supply route between Serbia and Serbian-held land in Bosnia and in Croatia. A6
 
Supply lines to Bosnia have been slowed but not stopped. A6
 
Croatia faces increasing pressure to curb the Croats in Bosnia. A7
 
VIEWS ON YELTSIN'S VICTORY
 
Although President Boris N. Yeltsin has not taken major action on economic reform since he won a referendum, his victory can be viewed as a dramatic comeback from the brink of disaster. A3
 
DENMARK TO VOTE ON EUROPE
 
Almost a year after Denmark threw the European Community into disarray by rejecting a regional unity plan, Danish voters will have a chance to change their minds in a new referendum tomorrow. A10
 
MESSAGE FROM THE ISRAELI RIGHT
 
A Likud Party convention opens with a hard-line message to the Israeli Government that members will consider strong resistance if the Middle East peace talks lead to land concessions. A11
 
HOSTAGE-TAKER AT ROPE'S END
 
Eric Schmitt, who took 21 children and their teacher hostage in France, was a bankrupt businessman, unemployed and living alone on dwindling savings, who seemed to be at the end of his line. A10
 
TORONTO PROBES SOMALI DEATHS
 
After the deaths of four Somalis in the custody of Canadian soldiers, Toronto is investigating links between its peacekeepers and white supremacists and other right-wing militarist groups. A2
 
Hundreds have died in new fighting in the Afghan capital. A3
 
Okaputa Journal: Science and salesmanship to aid the cheetah. A4
 
National A12-15, B7
 
SEEKING DRUG PRICE GUIDELINES
 
President Clinton's health policy advisers have suggested that the Government set guidelines for "reasonable" drug prices. A1
 
TENSION AT POST OFFICE
 
At the post office, which may be the nation's most murderous workplace, tensions between supervisors and workers have resulted in 34 killings over the last 10 years. A1
 
A SHADOWY BUSINESS
 
Secrecy rules have complicated the lawsuit of a man who allowed the Central Intelligence Agency to use his company's name to carry out covert operations but says he was then left holding the bag. A1
 
A FAMILY'S SIDE TO MILITARY BAN
 
After a Marine colonel testified that homosexuals should be kept out of the military, his gay son told his side of the story. A1
 
A TECHNOLOGICAL PARTNERSHIP
 
US West, the telephone company, and Time Warner, the cable company, have agreed to merge their skills to build more sophisticated cable services. A1
 
KEVORKIAN TESTS LAW
 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian was arrested after witnessing a man kill himself in Michigan, which recently passed a law intended to stop assisted suicides. A12
 
FUNERAL FOR AMISH CHILDREN
 
Hundreds of Amish people gathered in Fredericksburg, Ohio, to mourn the deaths of five children who were struck by a car. A12
 
CALIFORNIANS DISCUSS CLINTON
 
On the eve of the President's second visit to California since taking office, Orange County residents seem willing to give him the benefit of the doubt. A12
 
POMP AND SADNESS
 
Commencement exercises were bittersweet this year at Simon's Rock College as students remembered two slain colleagues. A13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
WHEN TIRES DON'T GO AWAY
 
Largely because environmental regulations have raised the cost of disposing them, discarded tires have increasingly become fixtures of New York City's landscape, creating a blight that has begun to alarm residents and community leaders. A1
 
Sports C1-9
 
Baseball: Blue Jays hammer Yanks. C7
 
Mets lose to Expos. C7
 
Basketball: Knicks beat Hornets. C1
 
Charlotte now with no room for error. C4
 
Boxing: Bowe still maturing. C5
 
Columns: Vecsey on the Stanley Cup. C2
 
On Pro Basketball C4
 
Football: Friction between Jets and Bengals. C9
 
Golf: Davies wins McDonald's. C5
 
Hockey: Islanders lose to Canadiens. C1
 
Horse Racing: Genuine Risk gives birth. C1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Obituaries B8
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
"Jurassic Park" and its summertime competitors. C11
 
Old and new at the Lyons Opera. C11
 
Music: Dolly Parton sings in Carnegie Hall. C11
 
Dance: City Ballet's "Balanchine Celebration." C14
 
Books: "The Balkan Express." C13
 
Television: An hour with Oprah, Phil and Geraldo. C16
 
Oliver Stone's "Wild Palms." C11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Blurred vision on health reform.
 
Help Newark's failing schools.
 
Mitchel Levitas: South Africa.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Foreign policy politics.
 
William Safire: "Focus" hocus-pocus.
 
Jon O. Newman: Are 1,000 Federal judges enough? Yes.
 
Stephen Reinhardt: No. More cases should be heard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CROATIA (94%); CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); DENMARK (92%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CROATIA (94%); CANADA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); DENMARK (92%); FRANCE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (92%); REFERENDUMS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); ARMED FORCES (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



456 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON AIDES SEEK NEW REVIEW BOARD FOR DRUG PRICING

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16

 BODY:
President Clinton's health policy advisers have suggested that the Government set guidelines for new drug prices, monitor compliance and reprimand companies whose prices are judged to be excessive.
But under heavy lobbying by the drug industry, the Administration has apparently backed away from the idea of trying to impose rigid, legally binding controls on drug prices. Prominent Democrats, including the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, have also expressed distaste for price controls in general. 
 While Administration officials still assert that drug prices are too high and have been rising too fast, they now appear willing to try Government exhortation and voluntary restraints rather than compulsion to curb such costs.
 
Price Reviews Suggested
 Confidential work papers obtained from the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform suggest that the Government should establish a drug price review board to set guidelines for drug prices. The board would collect data on drug prices and manufacturing costs and could, through "adverse publicity," put pressure on a company to reduce prices.
"Under this option," the papers say, "the board would collect information about prices, and it would establish guidelines as to a reasonable price for prescription drugs that have no therapeutic alternative. It would have the authority to publicly condemn any companies that violated the guidelines."
The board would be loosely modeled after a Canadian agency, the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board, which, according to a recent study by the Congressional General Accounting Office, has helped slow the rise of drug prices in Canada. Representative Pete Stark of California, chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, has introduced a bill to create a similar board here, and the American Association of Retired Persons supports the proposal.
 
Drug Industry Fears
 Drug companies dislike the idea of a price review board, fearing it would gain access to confidential data on their research, marketing, promotion and other costs. Moreover, they worry that after creating a board with limited authority, Congress might later give it power to set prices.
President Clinton has not made a decision on such a review board, nor has he decided how to prevent drug companies, doctors, hospitals and other suppliers from raising prices during the transition to a new health-care system, which could take three to five years. The White House says the health-care proposal, originally scheduled to be issued on May 3, will not be unveiled before mid-June.
Senator David Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, said it was reasonable for the Government to restrain drug prices because manufacturers would get a windfall when millions of people gained insurance coverage for drugs under Mr. Clinton's plan.
But Kevin Colgan, a spokesman for Merck & Company, said his company saw no need for a Government agency to review drug prices. "The vast majority of new drugs are responsibly priced," he said in an interview. "When somebody sets an outrageous price, there are plenty of public interest groups and elected officials who can focus attention on it."
Last month, Merck proposed a voluntary system of price restraints, enforceable through contracts between drug manufacturers and the Federal Government. Merck suggested that companies be given the opportunity to sign such a contract "rather than be forced into mandatory legislative Government price controls."
 
Keeping Pace With Inflation
 Under the Merck proposal, the average of the price increases for all of a company's prescription drugs could not exceed the general rate of inflation, measured by the Consumer Price Index. For any one product, the increase would be limited to the rate of inflation plus one percentage point.
People working for the health panel, headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, said they welcomed Merck's proposal as an acknowledgment that some drug prices were too high. Administration officials said they would probably ask Congress to authorize such "voluntary agreements" through legislation, perhaps with the addition of safeguards to make sure companies comply.
The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association estimates that prescription drugs account for 7.2 percent of total spending on health care in the United States, or $67 billion of the projected $940 billion total this year.
For a decade, drug prices have been rising more than twice as fast as the Consumer Price Index, and they are a ripe target for politicians because consumers often pay such costs themselves. Private insurance is much less likely to cover drugs than hospital care or doctors' services.
 
Coverage for Prescriptions
 The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association says 72 million Americans have no insurance coverage for prescription drugs. This group includes 37 million people with no health insurance at all.
The Administration says it plans to change that. Ira C. Magaziner, manager of the task force, told consumer groups last week that the Administration would recommend coverage of prescription drugs as part of the standard package of benefits guaranteed to all Americans.
In the Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton said he would "stop drug price gouging." But within the task force and its working group on drug prices, opinions vary on how to do that. Some officials favor Federal regulation of drug prices. Others, including economists on the White House staff, said such regulation could destroy incentives for drug research. There is a consensus on the task force for a drug price review board as a compromise, officials said.
Mr. Clinton's health plan is based on a strategy of managed competition, which envisions networks of doctors and hospitals competing under Government supervision. The Administration assumes that competition will hold down drug prices when there are two or more similar products on the market. In such cases, a health plan could negotiate over prices before deciding which manufacturer's drug to buy.
But, the work papers say, "There is no reason to expect that market mechanisms will control prices of single-source drugs for which there is no therapeutic equivalent."
 
The Political Factor
 The work papers also offer a political argument for Government action: "If citizens do not see some moderation in drug price increases, the Administration will probably be held accountable."
A lobbyist for a major drug company was equally blunt. "Administration officials," he said, "have made a political calculation that they need to go to war with us and with insurance companies, to have us as the opposite pole to them."
The mind-set of some Administration officials can be inferred from work papers that say the drug industry must pay for "sins of the past."
Senator Pryor is one of Mr. Clinton's closest friends in Washington and, as chairman of the Special Committee on Aging, has been investigating drug prices for more than three years. As examples of high-priced products, he cited tissue plasminogen activator, a genetically engineered drug for treating heart attacks, which costs $2,200 a dose, and Ceredase, a drug for treating a rare enzyme deficiency called Gaucher's disease, which costs an average of $140,000 a year.
The task force has also been receptive to the arguments of retail drug stores, which complain that they cannot get the deep discounts offered by manufacturers to hospitals and other big purchasers of prescription drugs.
Robert A. Waspe, senior vice president of the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, said he had urged the White House to seek a ban on such "price discrimination" and to establish a board to set a standard price for each prescription drug.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Drug Prices in the U.S. and Canada" compares various drug prices in the U.S. and Canada, and shows the percent difference. (Source: General Accounting Office) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; RESEARCH; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DRUG PRICES (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ACCOUNTING (70%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (59%); PETE STARK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



457 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: In Growing Piles, Dead Tires Haunt New York

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
New Yorkers have endured more than their share of latter-day urban plagues -- from graffiti and street crime to car alarms that go off in the middle of the night. Now come tires, thousands upon thousands of them, in tumbledown piles in vacant lots, scattered beneath elevated highways like steel-belted doughnuts baking to a vulcanized doneness in the warm spring air.
Largely because environmental restrictions have raised the cost of disposing of them, discarded tires have increasingly become fixtures of the city's landscape in poorer neighborhoods in the South Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn, creating a visual blight that has begun to alarm residents and community leaders. 
 "It was never like this," said Mike Colon, 51, who has lived in the Fordham section of the Bronx more than a decade. Pointing to dozens of junk tires lining the block of Park Avenue where he lives, he said, "You call Sanitation and they clean a lot today, and the next day the tires are piled up again."
Last year, the city's Sanitation Department helped to collect about 200,000 tires illegally dumped in New York City, said Anne Canty, a spokeswoman for the department. Nearly all come from commercial dealers.
Ms. Canty estimates that about four million tires are discarded -- legally and illegally -- in the city each year.
Although she could not say how many of those were dumped illegally, the Sanitation Department is now finishing a survey to determine how many junk tires are cluttering the city's streets and vacant lots.
Once the counting is done the department can turn to figuring out what to do with them. It is already buying new shredders to help with the disposal and is considering a plan to attract tire recyclers to New York.
"Hopefully, we can create a market for the tires," Ms. Canty said. "The city could reap economic development benefits by helping to foster businesses around recycling."
Until then the tires will remain an eyesore, a nuisance and a potential health hazard. City health officials say mosquitoes breed in them; firefighters complain that children set them afire, and many parents say they worry about their children playing in and around their shaky mounds.
Besides being a source of filth and irritation, the tires provide an interesting lesson in environmental consciousness, experts say. As concerns rose in the 1980's about what was being dumped and buried in the earth, it quickly became clear that traditional ways of disposing of tires, like stacking them in huge piles on vacant land, led to unacceptable environmental hazards, tire disposal experts say. Such hazards became obvious whenever the stacks were set on fire.They burned out of control for days at a time and producing thick clouds of noxious smoke.
Landfills were also a problem. For years, old tires were routinely tossed into their seemingly bottomless pits. But environmentalists discovered that tires were bulky, did not decompose and had the nasty habit of floating to the tops of landfills, even breaking through their surfaces after they were sealed and covered with a layer of soil, Ms. Canty said.
Consequently, by the late 1980's, New York City began greatly limiting the numbers of whole tires that could be dumped in landfills. Now, some landfills will accept tires, but only after they are chopped into bits.
 
Recycling Is Expensive
 But the environmentally sound alternative -- having tires hauled to processing plants where they are ground for reuse or disposal -- is very expensive, waste management officials say.
Although ground-up tires can be used to produce a variety of products, including asphalt and a coal fuel additive in making electricity and cement, the industry is relatively new. Officials say nearly three-fourths of the 200 million tires that are discarded each year are not recycled.
Ideally, when a customer buys new tires the tire dealer disposes of the old ones by paying a reputable tire processor. The processor charges the dealer $1 or more to haul each tire away, a cost that is usually passed on directly to the customer. The processor then grinds up the tires and pays a recycler to take them away or pays a fee to have them placed in a landfill.
To avoid the costs that the processors charge, some tire repair shops and garages have turned to an underground economy in which anyone with a truck and a strong back can cart away the tires at a cut rate, Ms. Canty said.
 
Anywhere No One Is Looking
 Many underground haulers then dump tires any place they think they can get away with it, experts said. In recent years, those places have increasingly been vacant lots.
Currently, illegal dumpers can be fined $1,000 to $7,500 by the city if caught, said Ms. Canty. Vehicles used in illegal dumping can also be impounded, she said. Recently, an illegal dumper was caught in the act near Shea Stadium by a special sanitation task force, she said.
Yet the penalties have not discouraged many.
Nicholas Lugo, 16, said he had seen men dump junk tires in his neighborhood, the Fordham section of the Bronx, many times, "even in plain view."
"They just look both ways, and -- WROOF! -- they're gone," the ninth-grader said as his mother and aunt nodded in agreement.
 
Issue in Bronx and Queens
 Olga Ortiz, who has lived in her Fordham neighborhood for nine years, said illegal dumpers seem to think they can act with impunity. "I think they figure that it's the Bronx," she said. "I think they think it's just more garbage and no one around here is going to make an issue of it."
But an issue is precisely what discarded tires have become in the Bronx. One of the first questions Borough President Fernando Ferrer fielded at a recent community meeting in the University Heights section of the borough was about junk tires in its streets and on the hillsides.
"It's disgraceful," said Claire Shulman, the Queens Borough President, about the numbers of junk tires turning up on vacant land and parkways in parts of Queens. "This is not a single tire or two, but mountains of tires. They are coming from business people, gasoline stations, tire repair shops and trash dumpers. I'd like to catch some of them."
Mrs. Shulman said discarded tires were particularly troublesome on stretches of the Grand Central Parkway, the Van Wyck Expressway and Brookville Boulevard as it runs through the wetlands near Kennedy International Airport.
 
Blight and Expense
 Besides the blight the tires carry to some of the borough's most beautiful open spaces, Mrs. Shulman said, they are also costly to remove.
Jo Soriano, who with her husband operates an auto parts and tire repair shop in the Fordham neighborhood, says she pays a commercial hauler to dispose of the tires the three-year-old business accumulates. But that does not stop the underground haulers from buzzing around her door.
"We just had some people come by here and ask if they can pick up tires and dump them," said Ms. Soriano. "They wanted 50 cents a tire. I told them no."
But the price being offered to Ms. Soriano was about half what legitimate tire processing operations charge, said Charles Piggot, president of Integrated Tire, a processing operation based in Buffalo. "They are making my life miserable," he said of the underground haulers. He complained that he had to follow all the rules and regulations of the Department of Environmental Conservation, "which are very strict in New York State, and they don't."
Ms. Canty said that the Sanitation Department had been studying the disposal problem about six months, and was buying five shredders this year, for about $250,000 each, to help.
But even with those tire shredders running full time, Mr. Piggot suggested that the city would still face the expensive task of gathering the tires to bring them to the shredders.
Mr. Ferrer, however, says he believes he has a solution. He is studying a plan that would give some Bronx residents an incentive to bring discarded tires to collection centers, much as some people collect and redeem discarded cans.
The Federal Government, he noted, will begin requiring next year that all highway projects involving Federal dollars have at least five percent of the road materials made from tires. Thus, he said, junk tires will have a salvage value.
Mr. Ferrer said he was also trying to persuade a tire recycler to open a business in the Bronx. "This is in a sense a rubber mine," he said. "We are ready to mine."
At the same time, the Sanitation Department is considering proposing a modification to New York's recycling law that would attach a surcharge to the cost of any new tires, Ms. Canty said. Part of the surcharge, she said, would be used to pay tire retailers to dispose of the junk tires properly. The rest would help underwrite the city's campaign to pick up discarded tires.
In the meantime, the piles of abandoned tires have proven to be something of a windfall for people like Anthony Benjamin, 33.
 
'Still Got Some Meat'
 "Here's a good one," Mr. Benjamin said as measured the tread of a tire discarded beneath the Cross Bronx Expressway near Webster Avenue. "The trick is that you got to find the ones that still got some meat on them."
Already, Mr. Benjamin, who estimates that he sells about 50 tires a week to passing motorists on Webster, had two tires, patched and inflated. They served as both product display and a seat from which to hawk his finds.
In less than 15 minutes, two gypsy cabs stopped to inquire about Mr. Benjamin's tires. They sold for $5 apiece, a little more than half his asking price. Nonetheless, Mr. Benjamin was elated.
"It don't cost me nothing," he said. "There're always plenty of old tires around here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Discarded tires, a growing environmental concern, fill a lot by the Willis Avenue Bridge in the Bronx. (pg. A1); Tires piled up outside the fence to Public School 147, the Diana Sands Junior High School, in the Bronx. (pg. B6) (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; TIRES; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); TIRES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TIRE RECYCLING (89%); TIRE DISPOSAL & RECYCLING (89%); CHILDREN (85%); CITY LIFE (78%); ARSON (78%); GRAFFITI (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (78%); RUBBER & SILICONE (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); SCRAP WHOLESALERS (77%); LANDFILLS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); PARENTS (69%); FIRES (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



458 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Optima's Promising Rescue Effort

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
With a blue cardigan casually covering his plaid shirt, Frank L. Skillern looks a little out of place sitting at the dark wooden table in a sober private dining room high atop the American Express tower.
"Fridays are dress-down days," he said apologetically, explaining that the policy had been instituted by Harvey Golub, who was named chief executive of American Express in February. 
 Dressing down seems a fitting symbol of contrition for this once-cocky company, which grew mighty in the 1980's, combining prestige and pizazz, then stumbled as the country headed into recession.
In no area was the company more humbled than with its Optima card, an attempt to compete with bank Mastercards and Visas. Since 1990 Optima has lost nearly $2 billion from bad loans.
 
Rescue Mission
 "If it was a stand-alone company, it would have gone bankrupt," said Mr. Skillern, who a year and a half ago was assigned to rescue the Optima card and some related American Express products.
A blunt, folksy Texas lawyer, Mr. Skillern is representative of the new, more down-to-earth management style that is coming to American Express under Mr. Golub. Even in a suit at New York headquarters, he bears little resemblance to the corporate climbers who had dominated this most image-conscious of companies.
Over lunch recently, he described how, as a newcomer to American Express Travel Related Services, the card unit, he moved to flush away some of the bravado that had led to Optima's disastrous losses. He tightened credit standards, slowed marketing and established rewards for good customers.
American Express introduced Optima in 1987, after years of debate within the company about how to get into the revolving-credit business. The company did not want to issue a mass-market credit card, fearing that it would undercut its green and gold charge cards. (Charge cards make their profits not by charging interest on customer balances, but by exacting higher fees from both card holders and merchants.)
And American Express did not want to simply add revolving credit to its existing accounts, because much of their perceived prestige stemmed from the fact that card holders are required to pay their bills in full each month.
But American Express had also found that many of its card holders were among the heaviest borrowers on their bank Mastercard and Visa accounts, stretching out payments and being assessed finance charges. So to capture some of this interest being paid by its existing customers, American Express introduced Optima as a companion card, with a below-average interest rate, available for a $15 annual fee to holders of its green and gold cards.
It was a marketing success, adding a total of 3.5 million cards at its peak in 1990, one-quarter of the holders of American Express charge cards, with loans outstanding of $4 billion.
This seemingly brilliant compromise failed, however, because the product often attracted the worst credit risks, Mr. Skillern said.
"People who used Optima to a certainty made a decision they didn't want to or couldn't pay us back at the end of the month," he said. Ninety-five percent of customers who used the card borrowed on it, a much higher rate than for users of bank cards.
Optima did not attract those who bankers call "accidental revolvers," customers who can afford to pay their bills but forget to every now and then, accumulating interest charges.
Without such profitable and creditworthy customers, Optima had a much higher proportion of card holders who ran into financial problems as the recession deepened. By last year, the bad debts that American Express was writing off amounted to nearly 11 percent of its almost $7 billion in total assets, a loss rate unheard of in the bank-card industry.
Compounding the problem was American Express's growth-oriented corporate culture. As the loan losses mounted, managers in the Optima division used accounting gimmicks to hide the extent of the problem.
Mr. Skillern, however, is an outsider to this culture. Once general counsel to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, he was hired in 1984 as a lawyer for IDS Financial Services, American Express's Minneapolis-based financial-planning and mutual-fund company. Mr. Golub, then IDS's chairman, in time assigned him to run various businesses, including IDS's bank and a start-up operation in Britain.
A dog breeder, history buff and avid theatergoer, Mr. Skillern will often work Shakespearean quotations into his remarks at business meetings. On a bet during his time in London, Mr. Skillern stood on a table and recited, in his Texas drawl, all of Britain's rulers in chronological order.
 
Punctuality a Character Trait
 For all his eclectic interests, Mr. Skillern is a notably disciplined manager who concentrates his efforts on a small number of objectives. "He is the most punctual person I have ever met in my life," said Peter A. Lefferts, a senior vice president at IDS.
For Optima, Mr. Skillern intends to achieve a profit of 1.75 to 2 percent of assets within three years; that will require cutting losses to 7 percent of the unit's assets.
He imposed much tougher procedures to prevent or reduce losses from the existing card holders. Some were as simple as calling delinquent customers sooner to ask for payment.
And he spent more than $8 million to develop computer models that use information about card holders' activity to predict who is likely to get in financial trouble. American Express now cuts off credit to those it identifies as being at risk: for example, people who withdraw cash so regularly that it appears they are living on it.
And Mr. Skillern severely restricted all card holders' ability to borrow cash. Losses on these loans, which had been as much as 25 percent of Optima's receivables, ran close to 20 percent of the amounts outstanding. "People used cash for the wrong reason," he said. "We wanted to position it as emergency money."
For 1992, Mr. Skillern slashed the budget for soliciting new Optima card holders by 75 percent, but he did not eliminate such spending because creditworthy new customers would help improve the unit's earnings.
 
Prestige No Longer Enough
 Credit standards were tightened so much that only 25 percent of the supposedly elite holders of another American Express card would qualify. Since then, American Express has developed more advanced screening criteria that would approve Optima cards for about half the green and gold card holders.
The consumer lending unit is now about half way to Mr. Skillern's goals for reducing losses. It wrote off $147 million in bad loans for the first three months of the year, an annual rate of 8.8 percent of its total loans at the end of the period.
To many analysts, this is slow progress. "When a company with losses of 11 percent says they've lowered them by two percentage points, this isn't good news in the banking business," said Donald Auriemma, a credit-card consultant. Other banks with problems have been able to reduce the losses much faster, he added.
 
Variety of Interest Rates
 The decline in losses may appear slow, Mr. Skillern said, because he is trying to preserve as much of the potential revenue from the business as possible to reach his profitability goals.
To this end, he adjusted Optima interest rates last year to encourage customers to pay their bills and charge more. Customers could qualify for a lower rate if they charged $1,000 annually, but their rates would rise significantly if they did not make their minimum payments on time.
Mr. Skillern is now turning his attention to selling Optima more aggressively. To compete with bank cards that offer bonuses like airline frequent-flier miles and automobile discounts, Optima now offers bonus points, good for merchandise or travel. (Spending $3,000 gets you two dozen bagels and lox; $300,000 earns a week for two at Euro Disneyland.)
 
About Those Ads . . .
 A new challenge, Mr. Skillern said, is how to sell Optima again without looking hypocritical in light of recent ads for the American Express card that feature the comedian Jerry Seinfeld sneering at "revolving debt."
Mr. Skillern's answer is to cast the credit card as a lesser evil. "Our message is when you do borrow, we want you to borrow from us and we will offer you one of the best deals," he said.
More difficult will be deciding whether to separate Optima from the green and gold cards and offer it as a stand-alone product. Mr. Skillern has been an outspoken advocate of this. But he said that he needed two years to prove to skeptical American Express executives that he could manage the company's credit business. Still, he argued that Optima would always be subordinate. "Lending is not the reason of existence of American Express," he said. "We are the tail, and the charge card is the dog."
At the end of the lunch, Mr. Skillern stood up crisply. It was 1:25 P.M. and he was heading for a 1:30 P.M. meeting. Under the new Golub order, he explained, meetings start on time.
"When I got here, there was clock time and T.R.S. time, which was always a quarter of an hour later," he said, referring to Travel Related Services. "That is less than optimal efficiency."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "If it was a stand-alone company, it would have gone bankrupt," said Frank L. Skillern, the Texas lawyer assigned by American Express to rescue its troubled Optima card and some related products. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graphs: "Better Days for Optima" shows amount of Optima's consumer loans, and the write-off percentage from '87-'93. (Source: Salomon Brothers, company reports) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); V (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (66%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); VISA INC (83%); AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICES (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; OPTIMA (CREDIT CARD) CREDIT CARDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); INTEREST RATES (61%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; SKILLERN, FRANK L HARVEY GOLUB (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



459 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Under heavy lobbying by the drug industry, the Clinton Administration has apparently decided not to impose rigid controls on drug prices, opting instead to set guidelines for new drugs, monitor compliance and reprimand companies whose prices are judged to be excessive. [Page A1.]
The tax plan cleared by a House Ways and Means Committee last week includes a break for small businesses that buy new equipment. But some say the provision's benefits are narrow. [D4.] 
 As the extent of lead poisoning becomes clearer and governments tighten rules on lead paint, a new industry is springing up to sell technology, expertise and labor to deal with the problem. [B5.]
 
Companies
A blunt, folksy Texas lawyer who was hired to rescue the Optima card business, Frank L. Skillern seems to represent the new, down-to-earth management style that is coming to dominate American Express. [D1.]
I.B.M. is embarking on its strongest challenge yet to Microsoft and its dominance of the market for personal-computer operating system software. [D1.]
Microsoft has quietly assembled a "paperless office" alliance, bringing together makers of office equipment that have agreed to support a software standard for linking copying machines, laser printers and the like. [D1.]
The age of Pentium begins today for Intel, as more than two-dozen computer makers plan to announce a wide variety of products using the company's newest, fastest chip. [D3.]
A strike by the United Food and Commercial Workers has spread to nearly 130 Pathmark, Shop Rite, Foodtown and Grand Union supermarkets in New Jersey and New York. [B5.]
 
The Media Business
In a sweeping collaboration between a regional telephone company and a media conglomerate, U S West and Time Warner are close to agreeing to merge their skills in building sophisticated cable services that would offer consumers a panoply of entertainment and information services on demand. [A1.]
A sampling of the "economic novels" of Japan's popular fiction offers a darker view of the country's corporate life than the Japanese like to present to the rest of the world. [D1.]
When ABC presented its fall lineup of prime-time shows to advertisers last week, it sounded a familiar theme -- family values. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
A Federal judge's recent decision to temporarily bar HarperCollins from distributing "A Dark and Bloody Ground" was an unexpected windfall for the publisher. Headlines, it seems, sell books. [D6.]
Forbes Inc. will announce the appointment of former Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger as chairman, a post vacant at the business publisher since Malcolm S. Forbes died in 1990. [D6.]
Meredith and Hachette Filipacchi are trying to take a personal tack in the typically statistics-laden realm of magazine sales pitches. The advertising campaigns begin today. Stuart Elliott: Advertising [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Last week's inflation reports, the selloff in bonds , and the Clinton tax plan are making tax-free municipals look pretty good. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D1.]
Houston Industries is profitable and has never missed paying a dividend. But can the big utility's reputation with investors survive its investment in Latin America? Market Place. [D4.]
The interest of A.T.& T., I.B.M. and Rockwell International has meant heady times for Spectrum Information Technologies and its top executive. The company holds patents for transmitting data over cellular networks. Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (80%); INTEL CORP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); LEAD PAINT (70%); LEAD (70%); POISONINGS (70%); LEAD POISONING (70%); BOOKSTORES (69%); JUDGES (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); PHOTOCOPIERS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (57%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



460 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Chronicling the Drama Of Japanese Business

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 16

 BODY:
The industrial image that Japan likes to present to the rest of the world is an economy in which diligent workers devote their lives to the company that employs them, management decisions are made by harmonious consensus and networks of affiliated companies work together for the common good.
But for a truer, darker view of what Japanese corporate life is really like, many Japanese turn to the nation's popular fiction, in particular what are called "economic novels." Here one finds a world of back-stabbing, board-room coups, pressure tactics, cheating and stifling working conditions -- in short, an unvarnished portrait of the nation's vaunted business system that is rarely found in newspapers and textbooks. 
 Americans also have business-related fiction, like Arthur Haley's "The Money Changers." But in Japan, a nation in which life centers on work, it is perhaps not surprising that the economic novel is a distinct genre like science fiction or mysteries.
Consider, for example, "The Keiretsu," a best seller last year about the fictional Tokyo Motors, which is said to be based on the real-life cartel led by the Nissan Motor Company. At a time when Japanese keiretsu, the networks of suppliers affiliated with an industrial giant, are viewed as a reason for Japan's competitive success, the novel paints a grim portrait of how these captive suppliers are exploited by the parent company.
To lift its own sagging profits, Tokyo Motors, a giant auto company, is pressing its suppliers to cut their prices to the bone. The chief executive of Taisei Lighting, a headlight supplier, is resisting the cuts and trying to stave off his mandatory retirement until he can position his son as his successor. If Tokyo Motors forces his retirement and installs its own man to run Taisei, it could suck dry the smaller company's remaining profits.
"In the economic novel, you find the real story that you can't find in journalism," Makoto Sakata, a nonfiction business writer, said.
Or, as the author of "The Keiretsu," Ikko Shimizu, puts it, "If you don't write about the drama in business society, you cannot describe real life in Japan."
The novels, some of which are actually more like short stories, sport titles like "The Public Relations Section Keeps Quiet" or "Ward of the Overworked" or "Novel of the Industrial Bank of Japan," a five-volume epic. They deal with topics as varied as the building of a refinery, death from overwork, corporate politics, complex stock manipulations and trade disputes.
And scandals. Japan has been rocked in recent years by a series of scandals involving illegal stock trading, bribes to politicians, business dealings with gangsters. Virtually all of these scandals seem to end up as novels, with the names changed.
 
Quiet Desperation, Described
 Many of the novels paint a bleak picture of the life of Japanese middle managers, the so-called salary men, who are also the major readers of the novels.
"Economic novels are the middle managers' enka," said Mr. Sakata, referring to the soulful ballads of loves lost and found that are popular in Japan. "Middle managers always have the feeling of one-sided love for the company, but they are always betrayed by the company."
In Mr. Shimizu's "Silver Sanctuary," for instance, the lights dim at a bank branch's year-end party as the branch deputy manager is dragged away and shoved down the stairs. It was, Mr. Shimizu writes, "a sinister rebellion by the underdogs against the institution which forced them into a uniformity in which one must not stand out, must not be praised or berated; one must not be in the news; one must strive in every way possible not to commit either virtue or vice."
There are the inspirational novels like "A Life Aflame," in which Ryo Takasugi tells the story of an engineer who works night and day to install a computerized control system at a new refinery, hiding from his colleagues the diabetes that is blinding him. When the engineer dies at the age of 45, his boss cuts short a meeting, closets himself in his office, and bursts into tears.
 
Popular Since the 1950's
 Economic novels first became popular in the late 1950's with the writings of Saburo Shiroyama, an economics professor. One of his early works, "Made in Japan," portends a theme that would concern Japan for much of the following decades -- trade fiction.
A Japanese thermometer company president tries to stop the United States from putting tariffs on Japanese thermometers, despite the pleadings of other Japanese companies to agree to voluntary export restraints. In the end, the United States requires that Japanese imports have "Made in Japan" stamped on them, which back then virtually assured the products would not sell.
Dozens of writers now churn out business novels. Some worked for companies like Japan Air Lines and Hitachi. Others are former journalists. Mr. Takasugi, one of the most prominent and prolific writers, worked for a chemical industry newsletter until 1974, when he took a year off because of an illness. That's when he wrote his first of 46 novels.
Mr. Takasugi interviews extensively for his novels, getting information from whistle-blowers and others. "I don't write anything that cannot happen," he said. "Everything is either fact or has a very high possibility of happening."
 
More Freedom Than Nonfiction
 Mr. Shimizu, who is 61, worked as a freelance journalist and at one time for a labor union. By his own count, he has written perhaps 200 novels, mainly business novels but also some mysteries.
Mr. Shimizu specializes in muckraking exposes and scandals. He employs six or seven reporters, many of whom also work for newspapers or magazines. Because his own name is now so famous, "it's almost impossible for me to interview people myself at the companies," he said.
The idea for "The Keiretsu," Mr. Shimizu said, came from news articles. The chairman of a Nissan supplier, had been kicked out of his company in a boardroom revolt and then sued the management of his old company.
Both the chairman and his son cooperated with Mr. Shimizu in the interest of leaving a record of what had occurred.
"My father could not explain this to his grandson, but if someone wrote it in a novel, it would help explain it," the son said in an interview, adding that the events described in the novel were mainly true. "The keiretsu system actually killed my father's entrepreneurial spirit." He spoke on the condition he not be named because his father has since settled with his old company and did not want any more trouble.
So far, few business novels have been translated into English and there is doubt about whether they would appeal to foreign audiences. The best collection is "Made in Japan and other Japanese Business Novels" (M.E. Sharpe Inc., 1989), a collection of seven stories translated and edited by Tamae K. Prindle, an associate professor of Japanese language and literature at Colby College in Maine.
Still, as more attention has been paid to Japanese management methods in the last few years, the business novel is being discovered as a sort of textbook with drama thrown in.
For example, The Harvard Business Review, in its May-June 1991 issue, reprinted a story called "A Longer Vacation" by Jun Asakawa, about a company's attempts to thin its management ranks by getting workers to discover there is more to life than work. The plan works well until a top nuclear engineer, privy to all the company's secrets, decides after a long vacation to quit and devote his life to the anti-nuclear cause.
John Wiley & Sons has expressed interest in publishing "The Keiretsu" in English. Mr. Shimizu said that the American publisher asked him to cut the novel's romantic subplot, in which the president's son pines for a fiance he fears he might have helped kill.
"If I cut that part so drastically," Mr. Shimizu said, "it cannot be called a novel."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Disciplinary Dismissal," an "economic novel" by Ryo Takusugi. (pg.D1); "If you don't write about the drama in business society, you cannot describe real life in Japan," said Ikko Shimizu, the author of "The Keiretsu." (Noboru Hashimoto for The New York Times) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (68%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); LITERATURE (76%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); CARTELS (71%); TEXTBOOKS (69%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%); TRENDS (62%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



461 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: California's 'Reagan Country' Open Minded About Clinton

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN GROVE, Calif., May 14

 BODY:
Standing on her front lawn barely out of earshot of her husband, Betty W. lowered her voice and told a secret. "Yes, I did vote for Clinton," said the retired school secretary and longtime Reagan Democrat, giving only her first name because she feared scorn if her family found out. "I didn't tell my husband. He voted for Ross Perot."
Now, on the eve of Bill Clinton's second visit to California since becoming President, Betty is a bit uncertain but still thinks she made the right choice. "I don't know whether he's on the right track or not," she said. "I just feel he's trying to do something." 
 Many in this city in Orange County, a bedrock of conservatism in the 1980's, offered similar views in door-to-door interviews in two voting precincts, saying they had not yet warmed up to Mr. Clinton but were determined to give him the benefit of the doubt as he struggles with issues that are close to home in this working-class community. Instead, they attributed the country's ills to Congress, which they accused of trying to block many of Mr. Clinton's programs.
 
Pain Felt at Home
 Mr. Clinton's trip to California, which starts Monday with a visit to San Diego, is crucial in the short run as he tries to sell his economic program to the nation, and in the long term if he hopes to be re-elected in 1996. Last year, Mr. Clinton carried the state, the nation's largest electoral prize.
But the state's economy continues to lag behind the rest of the country because of continuing cuts in industries like aerospace and banking and the closing of large military bases. Such woes are especially hard-felt here in Orange County, home to thousands of blue-collar aerospace workers and several military bases that the Pentagon wants to shut down.
"Everybody was very excited that there was a change," said George T. Urch, chief of staff to Tom Umberg, the Democratic State Assemblyman who represents Garden Grove in Sacramento, the state capital. "They really want to believe in Clinton. They are really looking for an excuse to believe in Clinton, but he hasn't given them anything to believe in yet."
 
Democrats Return to Roots
 In the 1980's, Republicans won big in Orange County thanks to conservative Democrats who flocked in droves to the Reagan-Bush camp. But last fall George Bush got only 44 percent of vote here, thanks to the many Reagan Democrats who returned to their roots in the hope that Mr. Clinton would restore life to the area's economy (Mr. Clinton received 32 percent of the vote and Mr. Perot 24 percent).
With the economy in trouble, many who were undecided as well as some leaning toward Mr. Bush ended up voting for Mr. Clinton.
"At the last minute, I decided to vote for Clinton," Kathleen Kackley said Friday evening as her husband, Leonard, sat watching Bob Hope's 90th birthday celebration on television in their mobile home. "But I'm kind of worried, the way things are going. I'm a senior. Hearing all this flak about the medical changes -- I'm concerned about that."
Last summer, the Kackleys, both registered Democrats, said they would vote for Mr. Bush even though Mr. Kackley said he was turned off by the Republicans' stance against abortion rights. At the time, Mrs. Kackley said she liked Mr. Bush's strong stand on family values. But later she said she just felt it was time to give someone else a chance to address the nation's problems.
Mr. Kackley, 74, stood by Mr. Bush to the end. But now he supports President Clinton and scorns Congress for blocking his programs. "Give him a little more time," Mr. Kackley, a retired school custodian, said during a commercial break in the Bob Hope special. "I think he'll be all right. They keep holding him back. They ought to get rid of them. The Republicans are against the Democrats, the Democrats are against the Republicans.
"Everybody wants to be the big dog in Washington now. They don't want to give anybody else a chance. I didn't vote for Mr. Clinton, but now that he's in there, give him a chance."
 
Cigarette at Sunset
 Down the street, Robert Milhollin sat outside his house, smoking a cigarette as the sun set. A registered Republican, he voted for Mr. Bush in 1988 and Ronald Reagan in 1980 and 1984, but last fall he supported Mr. Clinton. He plans to change his registration to Democratic before the next big election.
"Give him a chance," said Mr. Milhollin, 70, a retired building contractor. "You're not going to change it overnight. I like Clinton because he seems to use a little common sense with what he's doing.
"He can't do any worse than some of the jerks we had before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I like Clinton because he seems to use a little common sense with what he's doing." said Robert Milhollin, a retired building contractor in Garden Grove, Calif. (Theodora Litsios for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF) UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MILITARY BASES (67%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



462 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Khmer Rouge Given a Warning by U.S. On Defying Election

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Brunei, May 16

 BODY:
The United States warned the Khmer Rouge today against any attempt to carve out territories in Cambodia in opposition to the government to be formed after United Nations-sponsored elections next week.
"There is always a danger of that happening with the Khmer Rouge," Winston Lord, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, said at the end of two-day talks with the Association of South East Asian Nations. 
 "We would of course firmly oppose that, and I would imagine Asean would also oppose it," said Mr. Lord, who is visiting the region for the first time since his appointment by President Clinton.
He said the United States was helping to fly additional military equipment to forces of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia. But there has been no discussion on the United States sending forces to join the 22,000-member unit, he said.
Mr. Lord left for Thailand after the meeting and will also visit Cambodia before going to Singapore for further security talks with Asean and other countries. Members of the group are Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.
Officials said the group and the United States exchanged views on the possibility that the Khmer Rouge would try to seize parts of the country.
"There was exchange of views but we made no decision on what to do," said Lim Jock Seng, permanent secretary of Brunei's Foreign Ministry and a spokesman for the group. "Our immediate concern is the election."
Mr. Lord said: "The stakes are very high in Cambodia. We have been very disturbed by attempts to disrupt the elections. There have been intimidations by a couple of the factions, but the most serious sabotage has been coming, of course, from the Khmer Rouge."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA); UNITED NATIONS (UN) SOUTH EAST ASIAN BANK LTD (57%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA); UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA CAMBODIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



463 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Focus Shifting to Municipals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Amid the rubble of last week's disappointing inflation reports and the selloff in the bond market, tax-exempt municipal bonds look pretty good. And the Clinton tax bill, which passed its first major Congressional hurdle when it was approved on a party-line vote by the House Ways and Means Committee on Thursday, makes these bonds look even more inviting.
Traders and analysts argue, and the statistical data seem to back them up, that there is both some good yield to earn and a nice chance for some capital gains in the municipal market, a possibility that is fading in the Government securities markets. 
 One signal was the performance of municipal bonds last week. Prices barely budged lower although Treasury prices fell sharply, with the 30-year bond off 1 3/8 points while the yield jumped to 6.94 percent from 6.84 percent. In comparison, the yield in the Bond Buyer Index of 40 municipal bonds slipped 1 basis point, or hundredth of a percentage point, to 5.86 percent.
 
Change Not Factored In
 The main reason behind this positive thinking on municipals is that it appears that investors have not yet factored in that if President Clinton gets his way tax rates will rise next year. And the higher tax rates will make tax-exempt municipals a better bargain.
In the Ways and Means tax bill, which is expected to be voted on in the full House later this month, the current 31 percent tax rate would jump to 36 percent. And for taxpayers with incomes over $250,000 there would be a 10 percent surcharge, lifting the effective top rate to 39.6 percent.
But in looking at the level at which tax-exempt municipals are trading relative to the yields on taxable Treasury securities, that does not seem to have been considered. Because they are tax-exempt, municipal bonds trade at lower yields than Treasuries.
But currently they are trading at higher yields or ratios compared with Treasuries than recently and than would be expected at the higher tax rates the Clinton Administration is seeking.
 
Initial Effect Eroded
 "It had an effect initially but that had eroded slowly," said Austin Tobin, president of the Delphis Hanover Corporation in Southbury, Conn., referring to the President's proposal to raise tax rates. "There is a lot of sophistication out there and I don't think anyone is jumping ahead of this on the tax bill."
At the end of last week, 10-year municipal bonds with a top triple A credit rating were trading at yields that were 81.7 percent of those on 10-year Treasuries. This is well above the 52-week low of 75 percent reached at the end of November. In fact, it is closer to the high of 86 percent reached in October. Prices and yields on bonds move in opposite directions, so when the yield -- and the ratio to Treasuries -- is lower, the price is higher.
The same is true for five-year tax-exempt municipals. The current ratio is 81 percent, while the low of the last year was 70.7 percent, also at the end of November. For 30-year bonds, however, the opportunity is not as enticing. The current ratio is 79.9 percent, not far above the 52-week low of 77.8 percent at the end of July.
But many analysts advise against buying in the 30-year sector anyway because the yield is not that much higher than those of bonds in the 10-year range but the risk of loss is greater.
 
Room for Yields to Drop
 The high ratios mean there is room for yields to move even lower against Treasuries and that means the price -- and the capital gain -- will move up. In addition, the higher tax rates, if they become law, should mean that the present ratios between municipals and Treasuries will widen, which means more opportunity for capital gains.
Mr. Tobin said the ratio of the yield on 30-year tax-exempt municipal bonds had not been able to get much below 80 percent in the past. But with higher tax rates he expects that the threshold level for the ratio could move to 75 percent or lower.
Even without the capital gains potential, the tax increases make tax-exempt bonds look great. Now at the 31 percent top tax rate, a municipal bond with a 6 percent coupon has a yield that is equivalent to 8.70 percent on a taxable government or corporate security. If the tax rate goes to 36 percent, that taxable equivalent yield jumps to 9.38 percent. And at the proposed top tax rate of 39.6 percent, the yield is 9.93 percent.
There are several explanations of why -- when it has seemed clear for some time that tax rates were going higher -- investors have not been buying tax-exempt municipals and why the ratio between tax-exempts and Treasuries has not widened already.
One is the crush of new issues in the municipal market to take advantage of lower interest rates and to refinance old higher-interest-rate debt. According to the Securities Data Company, the total of new issues this year is now $97.2 billion, well ahead of the record pace set in 1992.
"The supply has put a lot of burden on the market," said Kenneth Meiselman, a senior vice president at J.B. Hanauer & Company, a brokerage firm in Parsippany, N.J.
Another explanation is that while President Clinton has promised higher tax rates and the Ways and Means Committee has approved them, investors are not so sure that will happen or just are not paying attention.
"We are getting the word out" about higher tax rates, said Terry Tracy, national sales and marketing manager for municipals at Lehman Brothers, adding, "People think about it and understand it but they don't do anything about it until it hits home and often that doesn't happen until they do their taxes."
There is, however, at least one small negative in the tax bill that could have an impact on the municipal market. It is the tax treatment on capital gains from tax-exempts. Under the new proposal, there will be situations when the gain on a bond that was bought at cost below the price at its original issue will be counted as ordinary income, which would be taxed at the new higher rates, instead of as capital gains, which would still have a rate of 28 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS MUNICIPAL BONDS (93%); BONDS (93%); TAX LAW (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BOND ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); POLITICS (72%); STATISTICS (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



464 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
With Badillo Out, What Is Effect on Mayor Race?

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
NOTHING became Herman Badillo more in this year's mayoral race than leaving it. His withdrawal informally signaled the beginning of a general-election campaign that culminates fully 25 weeks from tomorrow.
Doesn't Rudolph W. Giuliani have a lock on the election? 
 More like a latch, given his proposed alliance with Mr. Badillo. Four years ago, Mr. Giuliani, the Republican, lost to David N. Dinkins by only 2 percentage points and it is assumed that the Democratic Mayor's support among many groups has eroded since then. This year's public-opinion polls, while largely premature, are just as close. And those surveys have typically, though not always, overstated support for black candidates.
New York City voters dumped the last two Democratic incumbents, Abraham D. Beame after only four years and Edward I. Koch when he sought an unprecedented fourth term. Mr. Koch now seems poised to endorse Mr. Giuliani, lending him the same credibility among Jewish voters that Mr. Koch provided for Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato last year.
So can we skip the next 25 weeks of political oratory and analysis?
Not so fast. No Republican has been elected citywide since 1965. And Mr. Giuliani's appeal four years ago was grounded largely in his reputation as a Federal prosecutor -- a reputation that may have lost some of its gloss and its relevance.
Also, Mr. Giuliani just might make a mistake. Peter J. Powers, who managed his campaign four years ago, wrote recently that "oddly enough" his fondest memory of Mr. Giuliani was Election Night in 1989, when he "had to sternly let a crowd of enthusiastic supporters know that it was over and that we had to get behind the city's new mayor." It demonstrated, Mr. Powers wrote, Mr. Giuliani's "integrity, his leadership, his strength of character and above all his caring."
Others remember the moment less fondly -- Mr. Giuliani was screaming "shut up" to supporters who booed the very mention of Mr. Dinkins -- as evidence of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's forecast that the man elected mayor that year would be the candidate who could best bring the city together.
 Has Mr. Dinkins brought the city together?
Compared to whom? Ask New Yorkers their views of the city and of Mr. Dinkins himself and the replies are often racially polarized. Race is not an issue, Mr. Giuliani has often asserted. It doesn't have to be. This time, Mr. Dinkins has a record as Mayor that Mr. Giuliani can attack. Also, how race plays in the campaign may depend on whether, in the next 25 weeks, the city becomes consumed by the murder of a Yusuf Hawkins or of a Yankel Rosenbaum.
But let's look at the record. Isn't crime down?
Statistically, yes. But convincing New Yorkers that they are safer today than four years ago may be a tough sell. Testimonials celebrating the return of beat cops will help. But reminders that the police no longer routinely arrest neighborhood drug dealers -- part of a strategy to focus on higher-level dealers -- may undermine Mr. Dinkins's vow to be the toughest mayor on crime. His best rejoinder: how much more could Mr. Giuliani or any mayor do?
Mr. Dinkins's indulgence in self-congratulation over balancing the city's budget may not be all that great a political asset, given that, even in a searing recession, he was merely fulfilling a legal mandate and surpassing low expectations by doing so. In counting so heavily on help from Albany and Washington, Mr. Dinkins has taken a calculated risk: that in a melding of public and political interest, a Democratic Governor and President will be inclined to invest enough state and Federal aid to justify Mr. Dinkins's claim that having a Democratic Mayor is an asset to New York City and also would be an asset to a Democratic Governor and President when they seek re-election.
 Still, hasn't Mr. Dinkins had a good week?
Ask Andrew J. Stein. Mr. Badillo's sudden departure set the stage for the head-to-head contest that Mr. Stein, the City Council President who is running for mayor, has claimed that he wanted in order to inherit all of the Democratic opposition to Mr. Dinkins. But Mr. Stein's previous political feats are failing him now.
He is far behind every self-imposed benchmark in the mayoral race, except perhaps in fund-raising. He faces defections from his potential supporters whose fear of a Republican mayor may be deeper than their opposition to Mr. Dinkins or their faith in Mr. Stein. But Mr. Stein may be in a bind: switching gears to run for re-election to the Council job that is being renamed Public Advocate may no longer be a viable alternative; running for mayor as an underdog -- even losing -- might seem preferable.
Also, ask Mr. Badillo about Mr. Dinkins's week. Mr. Badillo got more attention leaving the mayoral race than had he ever formally run. But, like Mr. Koch, he would bestow another imprimatur on Mr. Giuliani by joining him as an unofficial running-mate for city comptroller -- if, that is, Mr. Badillo actually decides to run, if he shuns coyness and actually embraces the Republican nominee, and if all of his new-found friends love him in September and in November as they do in May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FORECASTS MAYORS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); CRIME RATES (74%); 

PERSON: BADILLO, HERMAN; ROBERTS, SAM; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); STEIN, ANDREW J (CITY COUNCIL PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



465 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: PULSE: Teen-Agers at Risk

 BODY:
Across the nation, increasing numbers of teen-agers are neither in school nor in the labor force. Arrests of teen-agers for violent crimes have risen substantially. Violent deaths are taking an ever greater toll.
The same troubling picture applies in this region, In New York, a teen-ager's likelihood of meeting a violent death increased at nearly three times the national average from 1985 to 1990 - though it remained less likely than in the nation as a whole.
 From 1986 to 1991, the rate of teen-agers arrests for violent crimes grew slower in New York than in the nation. And while more New York teen-agers dropped out of school and work between 1985 and 1990, a greater percentage of teen-agers in the region as a whole were enrolled or employed.

GRAPHIC: Charts of violent deaths, crimes and unemployed teenagers in US and tri-state area (Sources: Center for the Study of Social Policy, F.BI.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF SOCIAL POLICY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF SOCIAL POLICY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available VIOLENT CRIME (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



466 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY CITY JOURNAL;
The Picket Line Comes To the Checkout Line

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
THE advertisements blared "Buy one, get one free," so Arthur Graham drove to the Pathmark on Route 440 one recent afternoon for his weekly shopping. But before he could fill his cart with soda and cereal and boneless chicken breasts, he found himself ensnared in a bitter labor dispute.
"Please support us!" Nicole Nesheiwat shouted at Mr. Graham as he was about to stroll through the entrance. She shoved a flier into his hand and stared into his eyes, searching for sympathy for the 250 union workers at the store who have been locked out of their jobs since the conflict at four supermarket chains flared more than a week ago. 
 "The more people who walk through those doors, the longer we're going to be out for," implored Ms. Nesheiwat, 19, who normally works as a bookkeeper at the sprawling 24-hour store but in recent days has perfected a convincing sales pitch for dissuading customers from shopping there.
After listening for a few minutes, Mr. Graham, 24, a station attendant for N.J. Transit, turned around, announcing to cheers from the union workers that he would take his business to the nearby Acme supermarket. "I think she has a strong argument," he said.
It was one small victory for the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 1262, in a war that has spread in recent days to nearly 130 supermarkets in the Pathmark, Shop Rite, Foodtown and Grand Union chains in parts of New Jersey and New York.
Frank Margiotta, a spokesman for the union, said that 12,634 union workers were either on strike or locked out of their jobs. Negotiators met with a Federal mediator on Friday, but no new talks have been scheduled.
The dispute centers largely on health care and retirement packages, with the union accusing management of trying to slash away at parts of the previous contract, which expired on April 10. The four chains say they can no longer shoulder the burden of providing all of those benefits.
"We are trying to recognize the economic conditions that exist, as well as the spiraling costs of health care," said Larry Salinas, vice president for public affairs at the Supermarkets General Corporation in Woodbridge, N.J., the parent company of Pathmark.
At the Pathmark here, a greeting committee of sorts has gathered at the entrance to the parking lot every morning since the dispute began on May 7. Waving signs and shouting into bullhorns, the union workers urge motorists to turn around and suggest other stores nearby that they can visit. And because Jersey City has been flooded by immigrants in recent years, they do it in many languages: Spanish, Hindi, Tagalog, Haitian Creole.
As she stood on a traffic island trying to attract the attention of passing motorists, Albina Spicacci, 41, said she was particularly upset that Pathmark had locked out its union workers even though the workers had not decided to strike.
"I didn't think that we'd be out this long," said Mrs. Spicacci, a bookkeeper whose face has turned a bright red from all the hours spent in the sun picketing the store. "No one is winning in this situation. The store is losing money, and we're not getting paid. It's a stalemate."
Mr. Salinas insisted that Pathmark had locked out workers at 24 of its stores only after the union tried to divide the four chains, which bargain as one, by striking at eight Shop Rite supermarkets. Grand Union has also locked out employees at some locations.
But Mr. Margiotta said the chains were ganging up on the union. "Who is it that escalated this thing?" he asked. "They wanted to create a crisis and then blame it on the union."
The workers believe that their cries of "We need your help!" are taking a toll. Since the dispute began, Pathmark has sharply reduced its hours at locked-out stores -- 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. on weekdays and 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. on weekends. And Mr. Salinas acknowledged that though temporary employees were filling in, the drop in business had been "fairly dramatic."
But for every shopper like Mr. Graham or the motorist who turned his car around in the parking lot and yelled, "O.K., I'll go to Kmart!" there are many who stride right past the pickets with steely looks.
About 10 seconds after Ms. Nesheiwat finished talking to Mr. Graham, she quickly walked over to another man. When she asked him not to enter, he sneered and hurried into the store. "Why should I?" he asked. "Where am I going to eat?"
Others criticized the union for provoking the supermarket chains even as companies around the New York region are facing tough times.
"With so much unemployment, it's stupid to strike," said Dave Pymdus, 37, a construction salesman who came to the store with his two young children. "Besides, I got to buy diapers, and they have a great sale going on."

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey showing location of Pathmark store on Route 440

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PTMK (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (85%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION; PATHMARK SUPERMARKETS PATHMARK STORES INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION; PATHMARK SUPERMARKETS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JERSEY CITY (NJ) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; STRIKES; PICKETING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); SALES PROMOTIONS (89%); LOCKOUTS (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); PARENT COMPANIES (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (62%); RIOTS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



467 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Small Business Gives Tax Break Mixed Reviews

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16

 BODY:
On Friday, a day after the House Ways and Means Committee had approved a tax break for small businesses that buy new equipment, the managers of the Marvelous Market bakery convened to decide whether to spend $19,000 for a new bread oven.
The oven was the kind of investment that sponsors of the tax provision had intended to encourage, on the premise that such spending made small companies grow, increased productivity, and created jobs. 
 The provision, inserted in a big tax bill, would increase to $25,000 from $10,000 the amount of capital spending a small company could deduct from its income in the year the money was spent, rather than requiring the company to deduct the amount over several years through gradual depreciation.
But when Mark Furstenberg, the owner of the Marvelous Market, which makes a gourmet sourdough that was introduced to the affluent suburbs of Washington in 1990, was asked whether the tax bill would encourage him to increase his capital budget, he answered without hesitation: "No."
 
Decision Driven By Demand
 "It is almost entirely irrelevant to me whether the tax code rewards me for this," Mr. Furstenberg said at his planning meeting.
Rather, he and his managers agreed, the bakery would buy the new rotating rack oven to replace an existing stone deck oven simply because demand for the company's products was booming.
"I would love to be able to expense the full cost of this oven rather than to depreciate it," he added. "It's a nice reward. But it does not have anything to do with my decision."
Lobbyists for small businesses said they were delighted with the tax provision, which would be retroactive, but has not been approved by the full House or the Senate, where the tax bill faces further changes by the Finance Committee in the next few weeks.
"The increase in the direct expensing will help millions of smaller businesses," said H. Ted Olson, the chairman of the Small Business Legislative Council, a group of trade associations that represent many industries. "While we are sorry the committee could not make the investment tax credit work for small business, this is a very positive alternative."
The Administration had proposed a tax credit that would have directly reduced the amount of tax owed, but the committee rejected the plan. It opted instead for the expensing mechanism, which would reduce the taxable income of a company.
Family farms, which might use the tax break to subsidize the purchase of a new tractor, would be important beneficiaries as well, said Representative Peter Hoagland, Democrat of Nebraska, and a member of the Ways and Means Committee.
But tax accountants warned there were many reasons the provision would be of relatively narrow benefit, especially compared with an investment tax credit, the alternative that the Clinton Administration failed to push through Congress.
"This is pretty small in terms of manufacturing businesses," said Thomas Ochsenschlager, a tax partner at KPMG Peat Marwick. "It favors mom-and-pop businesses in the service sectors."
To take full advantage of the provision, accountants said, a company would have to have profits of at least $25,000, as the provision could not be used to create a loss for tax purposes. That means small business with profits of less than $10,000 would get no additional incentive from the proposed change.
Many small businesses pay their owners a salary and keep corporate income -- and corporate taxes -- low. And if corporate taxes are just 15 percent, or even 25 percent, as they are for companies with profits of less than $75,000, an increase in expense deductions to $25,000 from $10,000 would make a difference of just a few thousand dollars in the amount of tax owed.
Many midsize companies, which might be taxed at higher levels and would have more to gain, are too big to use the technique of expensing. Under current law, the benefit is phased out for companies that make more than $200,000 in qualifying investments. A company that buys a machine tool, for example, for $210,000 cannot treat any of the investment as a direct expense. While the complete language of the new provision has not been released, a similar limit would be included.
Tax savings that would accrue from the expensing provision would occur anyway in a few years under ordinary depreciation schedules, especially on equipment like computers that can be depreciated relatively quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARVELOUS MARKET INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT TAXES & TAXATION (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); BAKERIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); APPROVALS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



468 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Puzzle of New York City's Growing Budget

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Only in the upside-down world of New York City budget-making could the Mayor talk of hard times and spending cuts to close a budget gap while the bottom line of his budget is growing faster than inflation.
But that is exactly what has happened. While Mayor David N. Dinkins and City Council leaders are preparing for a tough budget that will probably contain millions of dollars in spending cuts in some areas, the overall cost of the city government has actually grown by $1.1 billion in the last 12 months and will grow at least by another $800 million in the next fiscal year, budget officials said. 
 The Mayor's political opponents charge that the inexorable swelling of government spending reflects Mr. Dinkins's timid management style and his reluctance to make fundamental changes in the way the city delivers services. For their part, Mr. Dinkins's aides argue that the budget has grown largely because of forces out of the Mayor's control and that most of the new spending comes not from local tax money but from state and Federal funds earmarked for specific programs.
Independent experts on the city budget contend that the truth lies somewhere in between: While much of the increased spending was unavoidable -- either because of unforeseeable emergencies or because of state and Federal requirements -- the city could have used some of its extra tax revenue to close its budget gap or pay off debt.
Between the time the city adopted its budget for the current fiscal year in June 1992 and the time the year ends next month, the city's total revenue and spending will have grown by 3.7 percent -- to $30.6 billion from $29.5 billion -- fueled mostly by unanticipated costs for labor settlements, overtime, Medicaid and welfare.
That means that before the last ledger is balanced on June 30, the city will have taken in and spent nearly $450 million more in municipal tax revenues and about $700 million more in state and Federal money than it originally planned.
And Mr. Dinkins has proposed a $31.4 billion plan for the fiscal year that begins on July 1, meaning that next year's budget will grow at least 6 percent over what was adopted last year, twice the rate of inflation.
At the same time, the city is in such dire financial straits that Mr. Dinkins has said he cannot balance next year's budget without about $530 million in new aid from Albany and Washington.
Critics of City Hall have placed the blame squarely on the Mayor. "Had the Mayor managed the budget and kept spending roughly within the budget that had been agreed upon last year, the Mayor would not be sitting there with a budget deficit now," said Rudolph W. Giuliani, the likely Republican challenger. "That creeping up of the budget is really a failure of management at the highest level. The city spends whatever it can confiscate."
But Mr. Dinkins's aides say the spending increases were largely unavoidable.
Droves of new welfare recipients have gone on the rolls, lifting their numbers above 1 million, officials said. Health costs are soaring, pushed up by epidemics of AIDS and tuberculosis. Classrooms are teeming with new students. Disasters like the World Trade Center bombing and two devastating winter storms have sopped up enormous amounts of money for overtime to the police and other city workers.
And City Hall officials also note that much of the additional spending comes not from local taxes, but from state and Federal money that is given to the city for specific purposes. "It's not discretionary spending," Philip Michael, the budget director, asserted. "It's not managerial decisions. It's all case-load driven. We're like a stake holder in a way. The Federal and state money comes through our budget, but we can't do anything with it but pass it through."
 
Mandated Spending Cited
 Charles Brecher, the director of research for the Citizens Budget Commission, a private budget monitoring group, agreed that much of the fresh revenues could not have been used to close the city's budget gap because they were earmarked by the state and Federal governments for specific purposes.
But he said the portion of the new spending that came from higher-than-expected city tax receipts, about $450 million, might have been better used paying down some of the city's debt.
"Their approach is that you reduce the government if you have to and when the resources appear, you say you don't have to anymore," he said. "If you're trying to shrink the government and cut taxes, then this would not be the way to spend new resources."
Compared with the other years of the Dinkins administration, the current year's budget has grown slightly faster, said Dean M. Mead, an analyst with the commission. In 1990 and 1991, the budget rose 2 percent between adoption and year's end. In 1992, that rate grew to 3 percent. This year it is nearly 4 percent.
"Part of the answer to the puzzle is they had more money to spend, and they spent it," Mr. Mead said.
But where did all the money go?
Bernard Rosen, the first deputy budget director, said the city raised about $450 million more in municipal taxes than it had planned. Of that, $321 million went to pay for a labor settlement with city workers, spread out over all agencies.
The rest went to help offset a bevy of other unforeseen costs that totaled about $461 million. Chief among those were overtime costs of about $70 million, driven up by two blizzards, the Democratic National Convention and the World Trade Center disaster. The list of new costs also included $81.5 million for unanticipated Medicaid payments, $13.2 million for new school counselors and other staff, $85 million in additional subsidies for city-owned hospitals and nearly $50 million for teachers' wage increases.
 
Federal and State Aid
 The city also spent $700 million in additional aid from Washington and Albany that was not in the adopted budget. Of this, $178 million went toward federally mandated social programs, including community development grants, Head Start preschool programs and energy subsidies. An additional $283 million was money earmarked for special school programs. The city also received more than $60 million for job training.
"There is virtually no discretionary spending in there," Mr. Rosen said.
Critics of the administration have said the one front where Mr. Dinkins might have held the line was labor negotiations. Before settling with the largest municipal unions in January, Mr. Dinkins had insisted for many months that all wage increases should be financed through increased productivity. But in the end, the city gave workers a modest wage increase of 8.25 percent over 39 months with no concrete work-rule changes that would save money.
"He hasn't made any real fundamental changes in the way the government works," said Andrew J. Stein, the City Council President, who is challenging Mr. Dinkins in the Democratic mayoral primary. "There has been no structural reform, no productivity."
Councilman Herbert E. Berman, the Finance Committee Chairman, said Mr. Dinkins has apparently decided to spend whatever new revenues he could find -- mostly on labor settlements and overtime -- instead of pruning the bureaucracy more to pay for the unanticipated costs.
"I would have cut more," he said. "There is a pervasive reluctance on the part of the bureaucracy to examine itself."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MEDICAID (70%); OVERTIME (69%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



469 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Higher Teacher Salaries Mean Better Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I find it astonishing that "Higher Salaries for Teachers?" (editorial, May 10) flatly rejects the findings and recommendations of a New York State-appointed independent panel of experts that investigated the United Federation of Teachers contract impasse. Three respected, experienced arbitrators heard more than 40 hours of testimony from economists, educators and officials of New York City, the Board of Education and the teachers' union. They studied more than 200 documents on city finances, past settlements and comparable wages. 
 And yet you dismiss their conclusions on three key issues:
(1) They found that the surrounding region, and not other large cities, was the relevant labor market and the appropriate basis of comparison. You disagree.
(2) They rejected every one of the city's proposals for givebacks to finance a raise for teachers, mostly on educational grounds. You disagree.
(3) They recommended that "an appropriate payment" of state aid be used to supplement the salary package, "consistent with past practice." You disagree.
You also dismiss the evidence of research and the city's admission that teachers are the "single most important resource of any school district." To quote a recent city and Board of Education legal brief: "The quality, training and effort of these individuals determine, more than any other factor, the quality of a school's instructional program."
And the largest study of the results of educational investments (Ferguson, 1991) concludes that raising teacher salaries to attract more and better teachers is the most effective action a school district can take to improve student performance.
So, contrary to your assertion, higher teacher salaries and better schools are not separate choices; they are one and the same. Quality teachers mean quality education. And you can't attract and keep quality teachers without paying them fair salaries.
 
SANDRA FELDMAN
President
 
United Federation of Teachers
New York, May 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (UFT) UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (UFT) UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (95%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); 

PERSON: FELDMAN, SANDRA

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



470 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 17, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: COMMENCEMENTS;
Duke Graduates Urged to Help Others

 BODY:
H. Keith H. Brodie, who will retire June 30 after eight years as president of Duke University, conferred degrees on 1,428 undergraduates and 1,553 graduate and professional students yesterday at the college's 141st commencement exercises. The ceremony was held at Wallace Wade Stadium on the campus in Durham, N.C.
Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, delivered the main address. A Rhodes Scholar and professional basketball player before his political career, he was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
 Mr. Bradley urged the graduates to use their education to help others. "As you go out into the world with your Duke degree, only you, with your conscience and mind, can determine what you owe another human being simply because that person is a human being," the Senator said.
Duke also awarded these honorary degrees: Sylvia A. Earle, a marine botanist and biologist, doctor of science; Dr. David A. Hamburg, a psychiatrist and educator, doctor of humane letters; Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce in the Carter Administration, doctor of laws, and William J. Raspberry, a columnist with The Washington Post, doctor of humane letters.
University of Notre Dame
The University of Notre Dame held its 148th commencement yesterday in the arena of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center in South Bend, Ind.
The university awarded degrees to 1,872 undergraduates and 572 graduate and professional students.
Tom Brokaw, the anchor and managing editor of "NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw," was the main speaker.
Mr. Brokaw told the graduates to use their education to help society. "What do you think a young Czech would do with an education comparable to yours, or a young black South African, or Chinese?" he said. "Would they clutch it to their breast, would they lie low? Or would they use it as a national resource for the common welfare?"
Notre Dame awarded honorary doctors of law degrees to Mr. Brokaw; Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania; Shirley S. Abrahamson, the first woman to sit on Wisconsin's Supreme Court; Cahal Cardinal Daly, the primate of Ireland; the Rev. Henryk Jankowski, the spiritual leader of Poland's Solidarity labor union, and Alan C. Page, the former defensive tackle for the Minnesota Vikings who now sits on that state's Supreme Court.
Morehouse College
Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia was the keynote speaker last night at the 109th commencement of Morehouse College in Atlanta.
The university awarded 526 undergraduate degrees. An honorary doctor of laws degree was awarded to LeRoy T. Walker, president of the United States Olympic Committee, the first black to hold that position.
Morehouse was founded in 1867, as a private, liberal arts college for black men.

Spelman College
The talk-show host Oprah Winfrey addressed 362 graduates yesterday at Spelman College's 92d commencement exercises at the Atlanta Civic Center. Ms. Winfrey was also awarded an honorary degree.
Eugene M. Lang, the New York philanthropist, was this year's recipient of the trustees' Award for Community Service.
Spelman College, founded in 1881 as the Atlanta Baptist Seminary, is a liberal arts college for black women.
Haverford College
Haverford College awarded four honorary degrees at its 160th commencement yesterday, including one to the late Arthur Ashe. The ceremony for 300 graduates was held outdoors at the campus in Haverford, Pa.
James Wood, a friend of Mr. Ashe, accepted the honorary doctor of humane letters degree on Mr. Ashe's behalf. Mr. Wood graduated from Haverford in 1950 and is a member of the college board.
Haverford also awarded honorary degrees to Anthony G. Amsterdam, a 1957 graduate of Haverford who is a lawyer and consultant for several civil rights groups, and Nina Totenberg, the legal affairs correspondent for the National Public Radio.
Bryn Mawr College
Alice M. Rivlin, deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, gave the convocation speech yesterday at Bryn Mawr College's 108th commencement.
Ms. Rivlin, a 1952 graduate of Bryn Mawr, helped develop President Clinton's budget plan. She is a former director of the Economic Studies Program at the Brookings Institution.
The college conferred 299 undergraduate degrees and 174 graduate degrees in ceremonies yesterday under a tent on Merion Green.
Pennsylvania State U.
Pennsylvania State University awarded degrees to 7,300 graduates over the weekend at 30 ceremonies.
The ceremonies, held Friday, Saturday and yesterday at 17 campuses across the state, marked Penn State's 132d commencements.
William A. Schreyer, chairman and chief executive of Merrill Lynch & Company, told graduates of the Smeal College of Business Administration that their future success would hinge on their ability to win trust and hold it and that "there's only one way to that: through the personal example of integrity you set every day in your dealings with customers, fellow workers, government regulators and fellow citizens."
Other speakers included Dr. K. Jane Cutler, deputy administrator for higher education programs at the Department of Agriculture, who spoke at the College of Agricultural Sciences, and John Seffrin, executive vice president and chief executive of the American Cancer Society, who addressed the College of Health and Human Development.
Smith College
Ellen Goodman, the Pulitzer Prize winning columnist, was the keynote speaker yesterday at the 115th commencement exercises of Smith College.
The college conferred 705 bachelor and 72 graduate degrees at a ceremony held on the campus in Northampton, Mass.
Ms. Goodman, who spoke about the evolution of the women's movement, received an honorary doctor of humane letters degree.
The college also awarded these honorary degrees: Reatha Clark King, chairwoman of the American Association for Higher Education, a doctor of laws degree; Maya Lin, an architect, a doctor of fine arts degree, and Dr. Anne Gershon, a professor and doctor of pediatrics, a doctor of science degree.
Boston University
Boston University's 120th commencement exercises were held yesterday at Nickerson Field in Boston. The university conferred 2,834 undergraduate degrees and 2,440 graduate and professional degrees at the outdoor ceremonies.
The Rev. Dr. Johnny Ray Youngblood, a senior pastor at St. Paul Community Baptist Church in Brooklyn, delivered the main address to more than 15,000 guests. Dr. Youngblood received an honorary doctor of divinity degree.
The university also awarded honorary degrees to Dr. Joseph H. Hagan, president of Assumption College; Dr. C. Everett Koop, former Surgeon General, and Derek Walcott, the 1992 Nobel Laureate for Literature and a Boston University professor.
University of North Carolina
Ted Turner, chairman and president of Turner Broadcasting System, addressed 3,957 graduates of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill yesterday at the university's 191st commencement.
Mr. Turner spoke at ceremonies held outdoors in Kenan Stadium..
Honorary degrees were awarded to Katherine Dunham, performing artist; Dr. Eugen Merzbacher, Kenan professor emeritus of chemistry; Carl T. Rowan, author, and Nelson Ferebee Taylor, chancellor emeritus.
College of William and Mary
In the 300th anniversary of the founding of the College of William and Mary, 1,273 undergraduates and 572 graduates received degrees yesterday. The ceremony was held in the Walter J. Zable Stadium at the campus in Williamsburg, Va.
The comedian Bill Cosby gave the main address, and was awarded an honorary master of arts degree.
An honorary degree was also awarded to William Styron, the Pulitzer Prize winning writer and novelist.
University of Wisconsin
The University of Wisconsin at Madison conferred 5,000 degrees at graduation ceremonies over the weekend.
Seven ceremonies were held for the university's 140th commencement at the field house on campus.
Richard J. Sauer, chief executive of the National 4-H Council, addressed some of the 1,500 students receiving graduate degrees yesterday.
Harold Scheub, a professor of African languages and literature at the university, was the keynote speaker for the 3,500 undergraduates receiving degrees on Saturday.
Honorary degrees were presented on Friday to Linda H. Aiken, a nurse and sociologist; Ody J. Fish, an industrialist; Finance Minister Alejandro Foxley of Chile, and Gertrude B. Elion, who discovered drugs to treat leukemias and assist organ-transplant recipients.
Hofstra University
Hofstra University will award 1,900 undergraduate and graduate degrees in several ceremonies during the university's 106th commencement.
The first of the graduation exercises took place yesterday morning at the campus in Hempstead, L.I., for the 1,100 undergraduates.
Cynthia Gregory, a prima ballerina, was the keynote speaker and received an honorary doctor of humane letters degree.
Shari Lewis, the ventriloquist and puppeteer, addressed graduates of r the School of Education in an afternoon ceremony yesterday. Ms. Lewis received an honorary degree.
The School of Business will hold two graduation ceremonies today, and the School of Law will hold its graduation on May 24.
Adelphi University
Dr. Carolyn Reid-Wallace, Assistant Secretary of Education in the Bush Administration and an Adelphi alumna, addressed the 2,300 graduates yesterday at the 97th commencement of Adelphi University in Garden City, L.I.
Dr. Reid-Wallace told the graduates that through their college experience "you will carry with you the seeds for lifelong cultivation of the intellect." She received an honorary doctor of humane letters.
Adelphi awarded 1,000 undergraduate degrees and 1,300 graduate and professional degrees.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the Duke University commencement misidentified the university official who presided. Thomas A. Langford, the provost, substituted for H. Keith H. Brodie, the retiring Duke president, who was ill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students attending ceremonies yesterday at the 109th commencement of Morehouse College in Atlanta. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (68%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME; MOREHOUSE COLLEGE; SPELMAN COLLEGE; HAVERFORD COLLEGE; BRYN MAWR COLLEGE; PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY; SMITH COLLEGE; BOSTON UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA; COLLEGE OF WILLIAM AND MARY; UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN; HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY; ADELPHI UNIVERSITY WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME; MOREHOUSE COLLEGE; SPELMAN COLLEGE; HAVERFORD COLLEGE; BRYN MAWR COLLEGE; PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY; SMITH COLLEGE; BOSTON UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA; COLLEGE OF WILLIAM AND MARY; UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN; HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY; ADELPHI UNIVERSITY DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (68%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BASKETBALL (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (69%); BOTANY (68%); WRITERS (66%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (75%); BOB CASEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1993



471 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Newborn Countries Tackle Embassy Life in Washington

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17

 BODY:
The Croats are buying the Austrian Embassy, the Kazakhs just bought a big house and the Czechs share space with their former half, Slovakia, which is not to be confused with Slovenia, which wants to buy its own.
With 19 new countries recognized by the United States in the last 18 months, Washington is seeing the biggest explosion of new embassies here since the end of most European colonialism in Africa in the mid-1960's. 
 But the new diplomatic life is hardly all luxury and limousines.
 
Red Tape and Carpenters
 There are local zoning boards and contractors to contend with, stringent budgets from the home country and approval to be gotten from the State Department for every aspect of daily embassy life, from car registration to the location of the embassy itself. All this while getting the attention of the United States Government when arranging visits for officials from the home country, who figure that is why there is an embassy in Washington in the first place.
"It's not the diplomatic life you read about in the books, with chauffeurs and big parties," said Kresimir Cosic of the Croatian Embassy. "In this business, whenever there is a crisis everyone has to focus on solving the crisis. Of course, that puts you behind on everything, so you're permanently in crisis."
Dmitro Markov, a former journalist who is the press secretary of the Ukrainian Embassy, said that after his embassy was established in January 1992, he felt a little like the comedian Rodney Dangerfield, who complains that he gets no respect.
 
Nuclear Weapons Win Attention
 "We were sort of living in the shadow of the Russian Embassy," he said. "The Russian diplomats were involved in something, were informed of something, but we didn't get information from this or that agency."
It helps, Mr. Markov said, that people have now learned that the Ukraine has 52 million people, that it is as large as France and "that we have nuclear weapons." Ukraine is one of the few countries able to raise enough money to purchase a grand old building for an embassy, the historic Forrest-Marbury House in the Georgetown section of the city, to which it will move.
Instead of the elegant mansions, historic estates or grand buildings occupied by the embassies of Britain or Egypt on traditional Embassy Row along Massachusetts Avenue, many of the newcomers have had to settle for nondescript digs in nondescript buildings downtown.
Take Albania, for instance -- a country that is far from new, but had no diplomatic relations with Washington from 1939 until 1991. Only recently did the embassy acquire a sign to differentiate it from the many dentists' offices that occupy the bland K Street office building where it makes its home. Ambassador Roland Bimo's office has the look of a stark Dali landscape.
"It takes more time to do things than one thinks," Mr.building right now."
"We'll soon have flags, handicrafts and other decorations to show the culture of our country, but financially we just can't afford an embassy building right now."
That is nowhere near the frustration faced by Ljubica Z. Acevska, the American representative of the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia. Macedonia is recognized by 30 countries, but not by the United States. Ms. Acevska runs a one-person operation out of a room in the office of a development company, a business in which she was once a partner.
"My goal is to get the U.S. to recognize Macedonia," Ms. Acevska said. "But everywhere I turn, I hit a brick wall. I don't exist."
For those embassies that do, forget high-powered diplomatic negotiations. The lot of most of the embassy staffs is made up of the daily details of setting up shop: administrative tasks, budget and payroll questions, health insurance, arranging to pay electric bills, keeping fax machines up and running.
At almost every new embassy, many representing new countries with no existing diplomatic or governmental infrastructure, staff members handle myriad jobs under a single title.
"I, for one, am doing the press and information job, I'm the cultural attache and I do all the educational things," Mr. Markov said.
Carol Karabashian, press secretary at the Armenian Embassy, said: "We've had at least dozen visits so far. It's an amazing feat that we've been able to juggle all these different tasks with such a small staff."
Many of the new embassies are results of the convulsive breakups of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, but Czechoslovakia's division into Slovakia and the Czech Republic was peaceful and relatively smooth, the outcome of 1992 elections.
At the former embassy of Czechoslovakia, which the two embassies now share, the split has been just as peaceful, even during the visits of both countries' Presidents for the opening of the Holocaust Museum. While the Slovaks look for a separate property, the bifurcated arrangement is evident in the announcement on the automatic answering system:
Thank you for calling the Czech Embassy. For general information, press 1; for information about the Slovak Embassy, press 2; Slovak visa and consular information, press 3; for the Czech press department, press 4, and so on.
"It's a little bit strange," said Monika Nemcokova, the press secretary at the Slovak Embassy. "Sometimes I'm talking to someone 20 minutes about travel and then it appears that they are going to Prague, not Bratislava."
Daniel Vesely, press secretary and the assistant to the Ambassador at the Czech Embassy, said he was surprised at how quickly the embassy began to function as two embassies.
"Of course, we are meeting in the corridors here, but we really started working as separate embassies one day before the division," he said.
 
Waiting for the Plumbers
 The embassies that have been able to buy buildings or houses to which they plan to move have also discovered the bane of every homeowner who has been assured of a guranteed move-in date.
The Croats, for example, who occupy a temporary office on Capitol Hill, bought the old Austrian Embassy on Massachusetts Avenue. They hoped to move in two months but have already learned the independent ways of American plumbers, painters and contractors.
"They're above any law," groused Kresimir Cosic, the Deputy Ambassador. "Whoever says two months, he's watching too many cartoon channels."
For the moment, Mr. Cosic is resigned to the sardine situation of temporary headquarters, comparing the startup to that of a Silicon Valley product.
"If Macintosh could start in a garage, we can start in temporary offices," he said. "Considering the beginning, we're doing better than Apple."
Starting an embassy when you are also starting a country is a continuous learning experience, according to several newly minted diplomats.
Nick Brown, the press attache at the British Embassy, was sympathetic to the plight of the newcomers.
"It's expensive and difficult to set up a new embassy these days," he said, noting that the British were establishing new embassies in the former republics of the Soviet Union by pooling their resources and sharing buildings with the Germans. "It isn't easy to conduct elegant diplomacy when you're crammed in one room."
Spokesmen for the new embassies were diplomatically silent on what their accommodations cost, whether they were renting or buying.
"We are the country of boundless resources, but we are paradoxically a poor country" said Mr. Markov of the Ukrainian Embassy. "It is difficult to raise sufficient money in an expensive city in an expensive country. But the Ukrainian Government believes that it is worth the investment, because we are building a country."
The political humorist P. J. O'Rourke thinks the arrival of all the new embassies is good for the local economy. "All these consonant-stans is very good for the real estate market," Mr. O'Rourke said. "And it's wonderful good news for flag makers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ambassador Roland Bimo of Albania working yesterday in his office at the new Albanian Embassy. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Map of Washington, D.C. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ALBANIA (94%); CROATIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFRICA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); UKRAINE (90%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC); ALBANIA UNITED STATES (98%); ALBANIA (94%); CROATIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFRICA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); UKRAINE (90%); AUSTRIA (73%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC COMMUNITY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ZONING (70%); WRITERS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: BIMO, ROLAND (AMB); DE WITT, KAREN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



472 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Medical Schools Gaining An Unexpected Popularity

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
In spite of expectations of reduced earnings for doctors and restrictions on professional autonomy under the health-care changes expected to be proposed by the Clinton Administration, people are applying to medical school in record numbers.
According to the Association of American Medical Colleges in Washington, applications for the 1993-94 school year are at an all-time high. Final tabulations of applications for next year will exceed the record of 42,621 set in 1974-75, the association says. There are now 16,500 places available. 
 Success in overhauling the health-care system will depend in large part on the cooperation of doctors. The resurgent popularity of a career in medicine augurs well for the overhaul that the Clinton Administration is expected to propose, because many applicants said they were optimistic that the good of the reforms to society would outweigh any hardships for them.
Yet the applicants also expressed reservations that if the patient-doctor relationship or professional autonomy seriously erodes, future applicants would begin to look elsewhere, sinking the popularity of medicine in a very short time.
 
Steady Increase
 Beginning with applications for the 1990-91 year, the increase has been steady, reflecting a stunning reversal of the decline in popularity of medicine as a profession among young Americans. As recently as 1988, applications to medical schools had plunged to the lowest level since 1970.
The drop was attributed to a number of factors, including fear of contracting infectious diseases like AIDS from patients.
Another factor was the discontent expressed by older doctors about the growing bureaucracy and resulting paperwork, including the requirement that they get prior approval for many diagnostic tests, surgical procedures and admission of patients to a hospital. Older doctors reportedly advised their children and other younger Americans to do anything except become doctors.
In welcoming incoming students to Washington University Medical School in St. Louis last fall, Dr. William A. Peck, the dean, asked how many of the students had talked to someone who had tried to discourage them from becoming a doctor. "Virtually all raised their hands," Dr. Peck said.
But Dr. Robert G. Petersdorf, the head of the Association of American Medical Colleges in Washington, said, "Students aren't taking the advice, they keep on coming, and at colleges the lines outside premed advisers' offices are long."
"This is a bumper year," Dr. Petersdorf added. The 16,500 places being offered this year are about the same number that have been offered since 1980, and about double those offered in the 1960's. The number of places in 1974, the second highest year for applications, was 14,576. The quality of students is also very high, based on test scores, medical school officials said.
 
Rapid Turnaround
 The average medical school applicant applies to 11 medical schools. There are 2.6 applicants for every one place, which approaches the record high ratio of 2.8 to 1 in the mid-1970's. The ratio jumps to 70 to 1 for a place at a small, selective school like the Mayo Medical School in Rochester, Minn. At the three schools with the highest number of applications -- Georgetown and George Washington Universities in Washington or Chicago Medical School -- where applications this year exceed 10,000 each, the ratio is almost as high.
Medical and educational leaders interviewed said they were puzzled by the rapid turnaround in the popularity of a medicine as a career. But the applicants themselves, as well as officials of medical schools and colleges, offered a number of explanations for the turnaround in interviews.
Medicine, they say, offers both a degree of economic security and, in viewing health as a way to help people, a chance to do good for the community. An additional attraction is the excitement of new technology, like gene therapy. And many students are optimistic that things will somehow improve for doctors, though most offer little in the way of specific predictions.
Applicants are also realistic. In a generally inhospitable job market, they see medicine as a surer way of earning an income.
"There is going to be an enormous demand for doctors in the future," said Cynthia Shoemaker, a sophomore at Wellesley College who plans to apply to medical school after returning from a year at Oxford University. "Whether there's money or not, people are still going to be sick and dying."
Many applicants have relatives and friends who have been laid off at I.B.M. and other corporations that had been seen as bastions of stability. "Interest in engineering, computer science, banking, business and law has fallen off with the end of the boom," said Dr. Gerald Foster, director of admissions at Harvard Medical School. Medicine, he added, is seen as recession-proof.
 
Diversity in Applicants
 The incoming class will probably much more closely resemble the American population in sex and ethnic background than past classes. This year about 42 percent of the applicants are women, 18 percent Asians, 8 percent blacks and 5 percent Hispanic people.
As in the past, the overwhelming majority of those entering medical school next fall will come straight from college. But officials of several medical schools said they hoped to admit a small number of students who have done something else since graduating from college.
"The student who breaks step, even for a year, is a different student, especially if they did it by choice," said Dr. D. Daniel Hunt, a dean at the University of Washington in Seattle. "You just can't get away with saying sit down and take notes, and they keep the teachers more honest than someone right out of college who tends to accept what is said."
Among those who have already been accepted in this year's pool of applicants are a National Basketball Association player, an Orange Bowl queen, nuns and other clergy, commercial airline pilots, bankers and a massage therapist who had worked with AIDS patients. Some said they have made enough money in the years since graduating from college to pursue the career in which they were most interested, medicine.
"It's ironic that as medicine is becoming more and more restricted in independence, it is becoming increasingly competitive and popular," said Dr. Barry Stimmel, a dean at Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of New York.
Most of those entering medical school next fall had filed their applications before Bill Clinton was elected President. The deadline for applications came before he moved into the White House and made overhauling the health-care system a major priority.
"You have to realize that most of us who are going to medical school next year made our career decision four years ago, long before this debate started," said Ruby K. Nagpal, a 22-year-old premed student at Emory University from Stone Mountain, Ga.
Sang Kim, a senior at Yale who plans to enter New York University Medical School in the fall, is among the applicants who said they were not concerned about how they will be affected by changes in the health-care system. She said she was "just hoping for the best."
At age 38, Lynne Kelley is resuming the premedical studies that she dropped as a student at Boston College, in part because she became disenchanted with students who just wanted to make a lot of money, she said. But she predicts that although applications are up, "if what Hillary Clinton is planning goes through, I think the number will drop."
Cyndi Robison, a senior at Stanford University from Idaho who plans to enter the University of Washington Medical School in Seattle, said: "I don't want to be pushed into a position where I don't have patients who come back to me. If you take the personal aspect out of it, no one is going to be happy."
Many applicants have shown a commitment to community service by having organized soup kitchens or worked in shelters for the homeless, said Dr. Sara J. Kremer, a dean at Albany Medical School. She and other officials said that many students now enrolled in medical school have organized AIDS prevention instruction programs for high school students and clinics for the indigent.
Like many doctors before them, some are seeking a medical career because of their own experiences with doctors. Derek Young, a 21-year-old student at the University of Texas at Austin, said he hoped to improve on the care he received when he had open heart surgery as a 4-year-old.
"I had trouble communicating with my pediatrician," Mr. Young said. "I want to be able to give an understanding ear to a child and make them feel like they are being heard. By helping kids I can help the future."
Among those who have rejected parental advice in applying to medical school is Scott Sidney, a 21-year-old junior at Amherst College from Des Moines. Mr. Sidney's parents, his stepmother and his grandfather are all doctors.
"I've been counseled against becoming a doctor by my family because of all the problems they already see," like the growing bureaucracy of medicine and "the loss of physicians' individual rights," Mr. Sidney said.
"Yet I can't think of a career that would be more intellectually challenging," he said.
Mr. Sidney said he expected to earn less than his doctor-parents and, by the time he is finished medical school, to owe from $60,000 to $100,000 in student loans. The annual tuition ranges from $2,230 for residents attending a state school to almost $28,000 at some private schools. The average debt after four years of medical school is $50,000, but the total can reach $150,000, medical school officials said..
When applications were at a peak in the 1970's, many of those rejected by American medical schools went to foreign ones. No one knows how many rejected applicants will go to foreign medical schools now because no one keeps track of such data, officials said.
Medical school officials are pleased with the flood of applications but find it hard to explain rejections of the many qualified individuals to disgruntled parents, alumni, influential members in the community and legislators.
Dr. Anthony P. Tartaglia, the dean of Albany Medical School, said: "With the dramatic increase in applicants, we now are rejecting younger siblings of someone who got into medical school several years ago with a worse academic record. And it's tough explaining the facts."


GRAPHIC: Photo: As President Clinton plans to overhaul health care, record numbers of people are applying to medical school. Many, like Derek Young, a student at the University of Texas, said they wanted to be doctors not just for the money. "By helping kids I can help the future," he said. (Zigy Kaluzny for The New York Times) (pg. A19)
 
Graph: "Medical School Applications" shows the numbers of accepted medical school applications, and the total number from '70-'90. (Source: Association of American Medical Colleges) (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAL SCHOOLS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) MEDICAL EDUCATION (93%); AIDS & HIV (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); INSURANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



473 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Administration Seeks Ways to Ease Africa's Wars and Debt Burden

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration, after fixing its foreign policy focus on Russia, the former Yugoslavia and Haiti, is beginning to turn its attention to Africa.
The development comes as civil rights leaders and the Congressional Black Caucus have been lobbying for a greater emphasis on the continent. Administration officials say that they are starting to look at such issues as Africa's crushing debt and the civil war in Angola, an 18-year conflict that has been as brutal as that in the Balkans and has lasted far longer. 
 "We're trying to aggressively change the perception that Africa is always the continent that is ignored," a senior Administration official said.
 
Symbolism and Substance
 Much of the Administration's activity has been more symbolic than tangible. But there have been a few concrete proposals.
During the last month, American, Portuguese, Russian and United Nations envoys have proposed a plan to end the fighting in Angola, where a civil war originally fueled by cold war rivalries and still driven by ethnic tensions has left an estimated 30,000 people dead, nearly 300,000 refugees in nearby countries and countless others displaced.
On Friday, representatives of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, the guerrilla group headed by Jonas Savimbi that has fought the Government since 1975, refused to agree to several crucial components of the peace plan, including the withdrawal of its troops from territories it recently won. The refusal by Unita could cause the peace talks to collapse, placing further pressure on the Administration to recognize the Luanda Government of Jose Eduardo dos Santos, as a number of civil rights leaders and liberals have been urging.
In elections held last September, Mr. dos Santos beat Mr. Savimbi but failed to win a clear majority, forcing a runoff between the two. Refusing to accept the results of the first round of voting, Mr. Savimbi renewed his guerrilla operations.
 
Recognition Under Review
 Administration officials say the question of recognition is under intense review. One official who asked not to be identified said a decision on recognition could occur "very soon."
The White House has also decided to ask Congress for $21 million during the next three years as Washington's contribution to a international effort on debt relief for 21 of the world's poorest countries, 18 of which are in Africa south of the Sahara. Because these countries' debts would be steeply discounted when sold on the world debt markets, the $21 million contribution would wipe $900 million worth of debt from these nations' balance sheets.
"We look forward to working with our partners to eliminate the debt overhang in low-income countries over the next several years," Lawrence E. Summers, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, said recently in a speech in Abidjan, Ivory Coast.
Recently, the White House tried to signal its new focus on Africa by having Anthony Lake make the continent's political, social and economic problems the focus of his first public address since assuming his job as the President's national security adviser.
And this week a number of high-level Administration officials, including Secretary of State Warren Christopher, plan to address the African-American Institute, a 40-year-old private organization that fosters closer ties between the United States and Africa. No Secretary of State has ever appeared before the group, though others have been invited in the past.
The new focus comes as civil rights advocates in and out of Congress were complaining about what they perceived as the Administration's inattention toward Africa. Two weeks ago, a delegation from the Congressional Black Caucus met with Mr. Lake to present its views on American policy regarding Angola, Zaire and African debt relief, as well as Haiti. The delegation said it hoped to meet with President Clinton himself.
"We have deferred with due respect to the fact that he has not been on the job too long," said Representative Kweisi Mfume, a Maryland Democrat and chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. "But the problems are so urgent that we feel it is high time that the Administration hears us. We expect a kind of meeting that we and the President will leave from with some kind of plan of action."
Mr. Lake has also met with the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Randall Robinson, the executive director of TransAfrica, a public policy research organization that specializes in African and Caribbean issues. Both Mr. Jackson and Mr. Robinson have been vocal critics of the Administration's policies on Africa.
Mr. Robinson said that while he welcomed the speeches by Mr. Lake and Mr. Summers, he would like to see specific actions. "And we have yet to hear from Clinton himself," Mr. Robinson said.
Last Monday, Mr. Jackson wrote to Mr. Christopher urging that the Administration recognize the dos Santos Government in Angola. American envoys have used the issue of recognition as a carrot to keep Mr. dos Santos' Government at the negotiating table and a stick to prevent Mr. Savimbi from bolting.
 
'Pariah Out in the Bush'
 "There is growing domestic pressure to go forward with recognition sooner rather than later," a State Department official said. "We've tried to educate Unita, saying it's better to be a member of a government that we're going to recognize than be a pariah out in the bush."
Mr. Jackson also recommended that the White House invite President Ibrahim Babangida of Nigeria to Washington for a state visit as a signal of the Administration's support for Nigeria's move toward multi-party elections, which will be held next month.
"The failure to meet with President Babangida is viewed as a real snub and a lack of respect by the Clinton Administration of the largest country and most substantial supporter" of American policies in Africa, Mr. Jackson wrote.
The Administration has yet to develop a strategy for a number of the continent's most nettlesome problems, such as Zaire. There, President Mobutu Sese Seko, a one-time American ally whose Government has driven his country into bankruptcy, clings to power despite urgings from the United States, Belgium and France that he step down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); HAITI (92%); PORTUGAL (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFRICA; ANGOLA AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); HAITI (92%); PORTUGAL (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



474 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Chief Proposes Fully Free Central Bank

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 17

 BODY:
The President of Mexico today proposed a constitutional amendment that would free the nation's central bank from his control and allow it to independently manage the money supply.
If the amendment is approved, Mexico would join Chile as the only Latin American nations with central banks that are officially protected from political interference. 
 The move, made amid growing uncertainty over the passage in the United States of the North American Free Trade Agreement, is being seen here as a way for the Government to secure investor confidence, no matter what happens to the treaty.
The amendment, some economists said, was likely to have somewhat limited effects because the Bank of Mexico, under its director, Miguel Mancera Aguayo, has moved with a degree of independence for the last several years in issuing currency, setting interest rates and supervising credit decisions.
 
President Can't Succeed Himself
 Still, a constitutional amendment would codify some of the sweeping changes put into effect by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, who is prohibited by the Constitution from running for re-election when his six-year term ends next year.
Though Mr. Salinas will pick his party's candidate to succeed him, a new president could turn out to be several degrees different in style or substance from Mr. Salinas, who has been an advocate of private enterprise and industrial growth.
Economists said that the proposed amendment, especially in the absence of a trade treaty, would give investors a measure of confidence that Mexico's economy was being shielded from sharp political change.
 
A U.S. Hypothesis
 At present, the central bank's relationship with the Government is as if Lloyd Bentsen, the American Treasury Secretary, had the authority to control or dismiss Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman.
Adoption of the amendment requires a two-thirds vote in both houses of the Mexican Congress. Mr. Salinas's party has overwhelming control of the Senate but not quite two-thirds of the lower house, the Chamber of Deputies.
Enrique Jacob, a member of a legislative committee that will consider the amendment, said he expected the ruling party to round up the votes to adopt it this summer.
The stock market here reacted positively today to Mr. Salinas's announcement, with the Bolsa index gaining about 1.5 percent.
Independent economists in both Mexico and the United States were enthusiastic as well, saying they expected the amendment to assure a degree of independent control over inflation because the Government could not order the bank to increase the money supply.
 
Further Limits on Government
 The amendment would also lengthen and stagger the terms of the bank's board of governors, making it difficult for any president to stack the board in his favor.
Mexico has already gone a long way toward taming inflation, which fell from a 160 percent annual rate in 1987 to 11.9 percent last year, according to Government figures. Many economists think that Mexico will succeed in its goal of reducing the inflation rate to single digits.
"This would guarantee that after all Salinas's sweat and effort in bringing down inflation, it would be hard to go out of that track again," said Jorge Suarez-Velez, director of Latin American research for Nomura Research Institute America. He said, however, that a continuing trade imbalance, with imports exceeding exports, would probably prevent Mexican bonds from receiving investment-grade ratings.
Alejandro Hernandez Delgado, director of economic research at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico, said it appeared that the Government was "just giving up power" and that "the flow of international investment into Mexico is important and something the Government wants to insure."
 
Budgets Coming Into Line
 Mexico has tinkered with its central bank several times since it was founded in 1925, but the Government has not previously been willing to totally give up control. One reason for that, said Jonathan E. Heath, chief economist with a private consulting concern here, is the nation's recurring high budget deficits.
But recently that has changed. Last year, Mexico showed a slight surplus, equivalent to five-tenths of 1 percent of the gross domestic product. And today, data for the first quarter of 1993 indicated a widening surplus compared to the same three months of 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHILE (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK & TRUST CO (90%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHILE (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CREDIT CENTRAL BANKS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); STATISTICS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



475 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-KOREAN TALKS SOUGHT ON A-PACT

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17

 BODY:
American and North Korean diplomats met quietly in New York today to begin planning for high-level talks intended to resolve the dispute caused by Pyongyang's withdrawal from the treaty to halt the spread of nuclear weapons, State Department officials said.
Although the details remained to be worked out, the officials said it now appeared that North Korea would agree to take part in such talks, which the Clinton Administration regards as the most promising route toward ending the two-month-old dispute. 
 A senior Administration official said tonight that high-level talks on North Korean nuclear weapons issues "could fall into place very soon." He said the proposed session would allow the United States "to pressure the North Koreans more directly" into rejoining the accord and opening its nuclear installations to international inspectors.
But other officials said a more important purpose of the talks might be to give Pyongyang a face-saving forum. North Korea has made clear that it will not submit to pressure from the United Nations Security Council, saying the issue should be resolved between itself and the United States.
Robert Gallucci, the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs, would probably head an American delegation, officials said.
The meeting today between State Department officials and representatives of the North Korean mission at the United Nations was the first to be held in the United States since Pyongyang announced its withdrawal from the nuclear treaty on March 12.
Three other meetings between low-level North Korean and American diplomats have been held in Beijing. The session today was intended explicitly to plan for the higher-level talks, and State Department officials said afterward that they were waiting for a formal response from Pyongyang.
The North Korean Foreign Minister, Kim Yong Nam, today expressed willingness to join in the direct talks but threatened dire consequences if the United Nations takes new action against Pyongyang.
The Security Council is considering whether to impose economic sanctions against North Korea, whose withdrawal from the nuclear accord takes effect June 12. Mr. Kim, speaking in Jakarta, Indonesia, accused the United States of seeking to use the United Nations to "stifle and smash" his country, Reuters reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; TREATIES; NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



476 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: Her Father's Daughter and Her Party's Luminary;
Molinari Finds Herself on National Stage in Republican Spotlight, on Her Own Terms

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A blur slides across Independence Avenue toward a side entrance to the Cannon House Office Building. A momentary pause and it takes shape. The Representative from Staten Island applies her warmest grin. "Hi. Remember me? Congresswoman Susan Molinari."
A smile from a startled guard, then she's gone, skipping the drill of the metal detector, swinging through her office doors, scooping up a pile of papers and heading for the phone with the look of a slightly hyper college student running late for class. 
 There are several truisms about this 35-year-old inheritor of the "Molinari machine" set in motion by her grandfather, a one-term State Assemblyman; oiled and revved by her father, Guy V. Molinari, the former Representative turned Staten Island Borough President; and now wheeled into prime time by this ebullient former cheerleader who once longed to be a journalist but now is often mentioned for a run for higher office.
She is young. She is outspoken. She is a woman. She is "pro-choice."
And she is a Republican.
Yet because she is an anomaly -- a Republican woman who backs abortion rights -- she is in danger of becoming her own worst cliche. And so she must be wary, always, of becoming just a sideshow, appealing and graced with a gift for sound bites, but not a player with influence on party politics or floor votes and perhaps even in danger of alienating some in her own constituency.
An iconoclast in a staunchly conservative district, she won re-election by only 56 percent of the vote last fall, and her approval rating can sometimes seem higher on the nightly news than in the backyards of her own district. Her father, a vocal opponent of abortion and an old-timer on the rubber bagel circuit, says friends sometimes tell him they are loyal and true blue, but cannot bring themselves to vote for his "pro-choice daughter." She is criticized in other quarters for being too much like him, an old-style politician inclined to stroke the hands that feed.
On the national stage, meanwhile, she has been thrust into the limelight by a party keen on softening an image of intolerance ossified last year at the Houston convention. Day by day she is trotted out for the television shows ("Larry King Live" and the evening news among them), courted by such senior Republicans as Senator Bob Dole, the minority leader, and touted by none other than Rich Bond, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, as a candidate with only the sky -- or the White House -- as a limit.
Trying to strike a difficult balance between her personal priorities and her party's politics, she bridles at any suggestion that she is out of the mainstream. She snaps that she's no angry feminist, no liberal, no daddy's girl who inherited her father's Congressional seat through a Machiavellian plot that left him running Staten Island and her snug in his old leather chair on Capitol Hill.
She argues, instead, that she is conservative to the core, a real Republican who differs with the party on some issues only because she is part of the Pepsi generation, and wants to wake up some party elders. At every turn she deftly praises mentors like Senator Dole and picks away at President Clinton's economic package. She is fiscally conservative, she stresses, a hawk on defense and is against lifting the ban on gay men and lesbians in the military. She even has a dog named George, after George Herbert Walker Bush, a mentor.
Still, her high-pep style and atypical political profile have given her national name recognition out of proportion with her scant seniority.
She is renowned on both sides of the bipartisan divide for swimming against the Republican tide on such issues as abortion and gun control. She says, not without a quirky pride, that the National Rifle Association dubbed her "traitor" when she voted for the Brady Bill after the N.R.A. had backed her with free mailings in 1990.
 
Some Deep Divides
 There are fiercer battles within the party, ones that sometimes leave Ms. Molinari standing out, if not alone. Henry J. Hyde, a Representative from Illinois who firmly opposes abortion, last week cautioned that 1992's campaign results were "an electoral aberration" and advised the party to resist lurching toward more liberal social stands. A memo from the House Republican Study Committee expressing outrage over a proposal to allow women into combat exposed another deep divide. Steaming over the memo's tone and content, Ms. Molinari snapped: "I mean c'mon! Isn't this just a little nanny, nanny, boo, boo? I wish they would remember there are women in the party, too."
Not many. The Republican Party counts only 12 women among its 176 Representatives in the House. Ms. Molinari wants more. A bumper sticker on her desk ("50/50 by 2000") calls for even numbers of men and women in Congress by the year 2000, hardly a Republican priority.
On women's health issues she can be equally out front. "When I first got here," she said of her arrival in Congress in March 1990, "every time you'd say 'breast feeding' on the House floor there would be a snicker. I mean, this has been happening since creation. Could we finally get a grip on it?"
She can be equally passionate, though, on matters far from home. She has become a high-profile commentator on the situation in Bosnia, weighing in on the merits of air strikes and United Nations involvement. Her interest, she said, derived not from a committee assignment, but over a series of sessions with her Armenian hairdresser who filled her in on the region's troubled history. It is a weird explanation for an introduction to foreign affairs. But it is vintage Molinari, personal to the point of folksy.
 
Influential Friends
 Tanya Melich, a Republican political consultant who has worked with female candidates for years, believes Ms. Molinari combines a perfect ethnic profile (she is an East Coast Italian Catholic with traces of Irish, Czech, Australian and Chinese) blessed with perfect political pitch. "You look at her bio and, wow, that's textbook," she said. "It's really wonderful. She did the kind of things we teach women to do in training sessions. Susan's got a power base. She's got a national constituency in terms of women who identify with her. She's got a leadership role in the Republican pro-choice circles. She's got a solid base on Staten Island."
She also has some very influential friends, both in New York and beyond. One of them is the man she dates, Representative Bill Paxon of Williamsville, a Buffalo suburb, who is chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, the campaign arm for Republican House races.
She constantly and carefully nurtures contacts up and down the party line. Last year, when her father scrapped a long friendship with Mr. Bond by telling reporters that Dan Quayle was "a liability" to President Bush's run for re-election, his daughter was more circumspect. She said she had "mixed feelings" and then dropped a perfect bomb. "Whether public perception is right or wrong, it is the political reality," she said of Mr. Quayle's poor standing. Her father and Mr. Bond have not spoken since. Ms. Molinari headed for the telephone. "He called screaming," she said. "I called screaming. And after that we made up." No burnt bridges.
It is not always that easy. Her fierce support of keeping the Navy home port open on Staten Island, a constituent-pleaser that guarantees jobs and Federal financing, has aggravated some critics who wish she would broaden her view of the national interest. After a meeting on the issue last week, Thomas S. DeLuca, the former head of the Coalition for a Nuclear Free Harbor, complained that no one supporting the port closure was allowed time to speak.
 
Politics vs. People?
 A handful of elderly people who visited Ms. Molinari's Brooklyn office in Bay Ridge also went away less than satisfied. After Ms. Molinari politely refused to sign on to a health bill they backed, Shirley Genn, the executive director of the Brooklyn-wide Council of the Aging Inc. said she thought the Representative was putting politics ahead of people, just as her father might have.
"The last time I saw her there were 30 people and only one -- me -- was there representing the consumer," Ms. Genn explained. "The others all represented providers. She's extremely well-informed. She's bright, she's caring, perhaps, but when push comes to shove it is my observation that her decision will be on political grounds, not human needs."
On the subject of his successful successor, Mr. Molinari rejects everything but abject praise. "I'm pro-life," he said of his one major area of disagreement. "We've had some trouble with that. But I know that my stand politically alienates some people." On other matters, he said, the two mostly "share issues." At times, they even share office space. So close is their relationship that staff members at Ms. Molinari's office say that when her father is in town he sets himself up at his old desk while his daughter retreats to the office couch.
That casualness is one of his daughter's trademarks. Her style is so quintessentially New York, so unvarnished and unself-conscious, that when she was distracted by a ringing telephone in her Brooklyn district office recently she reacted with a Staten Islander's flair, winging it impatiently around in the air, then dropping to her knees to yank the cord from a wall socket.
 
'Has Always Been Different'
 "She seems to have lost the caution gene somehow," Ms. Gorlin said. "She still thinks that it's sort of fun to be in Congress. But at a certain level it's not fun and I'm not sure she knows what that's all about."
Until she does, she rocks through Washington, complaining that the capital is not a real city since it has "no ugly people, no fat people, no old people and no dogs."
Mr. Bond, a New Yorker himself, loves that bluntness. "She has always been different," he said of her days at the Republican National Committee's political division as a recent graduate of State University of New York at Albany.
"From the start," Mr. Bond said, "she wasn't this demure Laura Ashley Washington type. She used to wear black high-top Converse sneakers and there was a certain degree of derisiveness about that down here in La La Land."
 
Raised on Politics
 But she has stuck by her ways. She was the first woman ever to wear pants on the House floor, a scandal at the time. And she still gives her mother heartburn when she bolts off to a nationally televised debate wearing sneakers. Her former administrative aide, Dan Leonard, now the director of communications at the National Republican Congressional Committee, said he was shocked recently when he saw her carrying a purse (usually she just packs her wallet).
That spiritedness perhaps comes from having politics on the brain and in the bloodstream. In the Molinari household of the 1960's, the Molinaris and their only child held weekly elections for house president, her father recalled. Later she would apply those talents in the New York City Council, a "boring" post she held for five years before taking over her father's abandoned seat in Congress.
In recent months Mr. Molinari has weighed a run for governor. But if his daughter wanted to run, he said, he would defer. "There are things about her that would make her the better candidate," he said. "She is younger, she is a woman, she's pro-choice."
That's the rub. Only a run for wider office could answer one question: whether the Republicans really see her as the torchbearer for the next generation, or if they just applaud because, for now, she provides what many Republican strategists say the party so badly needs, an antidote to the toxins of last summer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reacting to a constituent, Representative Susan Molinari expresse3s the exuberance that has stirred her image as a Republican who is a member of a younger generation, an iconoclast in a staunchly conservative district. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PROFILE: Susan Molinari"
 
Born: March 27, 1958; Staten Island
 
Hometown: Staten Island
 
Education: St. Joseph Hill Academy, 1976; State University of New York at Albany, 1980; Masters in political communications, SUNY Albany, 1981.
 
Career: 1981-83, finance assistant for Republican Governor's Association. 1983-85, ethnic community liaison for the Republican National Committee. 1985-90, New York City Council member. 1990-present, Representative of New York's 13thDistrict.
 
Family: Father, Guy V. Molinari; mother, Marguerite Molinari. Formerly married to John Lucchesi of Staten Island. The marriage ended in divorce in 1992. No children.
 
Interests: Runs three to four miles several times a week. Also works out on Nordic Track machines at her homes in Staten Island and Washington. Devoted to her dog, George.
 
(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WOMEN US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); ABORTION (72%); WRITERS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); METAL DETECTORS (56%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; MOLINARI, SUSAN (REPR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



477 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances by 6.92 in Subdued Trading

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The stock market was largely subdued yesterday after two straight days of decline and closed modestly higher.
Traders may be holding back, waiting to glean how the Federal Reserve Board would react today to last week's discouraging inflation reports. A cut in interest rates before the summer seems out of the question now, so many traders would be relieved if the Fed simply did nothing. A rise in rates would rattle already-nervous traders. 
 Yesterday, computerized buy programs probably accounted for much of the market's gain, rather than investor sentiment.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 6.92 points, to 3,449.93, while the Standard & Poor's 500 was up 0.81 point, to 440.37. Most other indexes were also higher.
The big exception, however, was the Dow Jones transportation average, which lost 15.91 points, to 1,567.66.
 
Twists in Economic Outlook
 The transportation average is made up of airline, railroad and trucking companies. Its prices have vaulted or fallen with every new twist in the economic outlook and hence the prospects for carrying goods and people. The Dow transports have been in a downward trend since April 16, when they hit a record 1,683.08.
Yesterday, the transportation average was dragged down by several stocks that declined 1 point or more. The leading transport decliner was Xtra, a trucking company, down 4 1/8 points, to 80 1/4, on no discernible news. Another trucking company, Consolidated Freightways, fell 1, to 17.
Among the airlines, meanwhile, AMR, the parent of American Airlines, lost 1 1/2, to 70, while UAL, the parent of United, slipped 1 3/4, to 138 1/2.
Investors did not appear to be trying too strenuously to recover yesterday from the broad retreat of 34 points in the Dow Jones industrial average Thursday and Friday's decline of nearly 5 points.
Trading was light until noon on the New York Stock Exchange when there was a large run-up in volume to a relatively heavy 227.6 million shares, compared with Friday's volume of 252.9 million shares and Thursday's volume of 293.9 million shares.
No individual stocks or groups seemed to dominate trading, although Royal Dutch Petroleum again showed enormous volume at 17.4 million shares, but far lower than Friday's volume of nearly 45 million shares. It was the most-active stock on any exchange.
Royal Dutch, which owns 60 percent of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, closed down yesterday 1/8 point, to 90 1/2, following news that Shell had repaired a Louisiana refinery and was planning to reopen it.
If that was not the news accounting for Royal Dutch's drop, the shares may also be changing hands as part of last week's dividend play. Big investors, depending on their tax profile, can either buy or sell stocks with hefty dividends like that of Royal Dutch to minimize their tax bills. The company also reported surprisingly strong quarterly earnings.
Time Warner yesterday announced a major venture with U S West, a large local-telephone company, which agreed to invest $2.5 billion in Time Warner's operations. Time Warner's stock closed up 1 1/2 point, to 35, on unusually heavy volume of 5.95 million shares. It was the second-most active stock on the Big Board.
U S West dropped 1/2 point, to 40 5/8, on volume of only 1 million shares. U S West said the deal would dilute earnings.
Among the other market indicators, the New York Stock Exchange composite index was up 0.24 point, to 243.58, while the Nasdaq composite index, made up of smaller capitalization and high-technology stocks, closed up 1.59 point, to 677.96. The American Stock Exchange market value index closed unchanged at 427.46.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); CNW (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (54%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); CON-WAY INC (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRUCKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (67%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



478 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
GPA Directors Support $50 Million in Payments

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: LONDON, May 17

 BODY:
GPA Group P.L.C. said today that its directors had voted to make $50 million of interest payments due today and a principal payment due Tuesday to bondholders, saving the group from examinership and clearing the way for the GE Capital Corporation's acquisition plan to proceed.
GPA's board members have been meeting at the investment bank Schroders P.L.C. here. If the company had defaulted, the world's largest aircraft leasing group would have gone into examinership, Ireland's equivalent of Chapter 11 in the United States. 
 The announcement clears the way for GE Capital to acquire 45 aircraft from GPA for $1.35 billion and buy 60 percent to 80 percent of the group over the next four years. The deal's advancement depended on the bondholders' payment being made.
GPA has $3.5 billion of secured bank debt and $2.5 billion of unsecured debt to bondholders. Through June 30, GPA must make a total $300 million of interest and principal payments to bondholders.
 
Bridge Loans for the Company
 GPA said some of its bankers and shareholders had indicated in writing that they would provide bridge loans to the company. The amount was not disclosed.
GPA also said it had received "assurances" from some banks on restructuring the company's bank debt, including deferral of 1993 and 1994 amortization payments. That hinges on completion of the GE Capital transaction and GPA's receiving a loan from shareholders, the company said.
A proposed timetable for the transactions, including shareholder approval, will be announced when agreed upon, GPA said.
The board's decision buys GPA time but does not guarantee the company will survive over the long term, said Jack Hersch, an analyst at M. J. Whitman, a trader of distressed bank debt and securities.
In a presentation to bondholders on Friday, GPA said the GE Capital transaction and restructuring of bank debt were expected to provide enough cash "to pay all unsecured debt obligations for the next 18 months," according to a filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
GPA directors apparently believe that the GE deal will close, Mr. Hersch said. "They agree that 18 months is enough time for the company to get back on its feet," he said.
Mr. Hersch says, however, that it is "quite a bet," given that interest rates are rising on concern about inflation today and that the aircraft market remains in a slump.
The Boeing Company, the Seattle aircraft maker, has already lent GPA $569 million, according to the S.E.C. filing. "The move by the banks and Boeing emanates from their concern about allowing this company to go into examinership," Mr. Hersch said. "There's a perception that examinership could lead to a meltdown that would put 460 GPA airplanes up for sale."
"The board's decision today is a window into whether the GE deal will go through," Mr. Hersch said. GPA bonds jumped earlier this afternoon on speculation that the company had decided to make the imminent bond payments. GPA Delaware Inc. 8.75 percent bonds due 1998 were quoted at 58 cents on the dollar, up from 54 cents at the opening of trading, according to traders at Mabon Securities in New York.
GE officials were unavailable for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); SDR (LSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GPA GROUP PLC; GE CAPITAL CORP GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); GPA GROUP PLC (93%); BOEING CO (84%); SCHRODERS PLC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GPA GROUP PLC; GE CAPITAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CORPORATE BONDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEASING INDUSTRY (72%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



479 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: States Turn Entrepreneurial To Augment Tourism Funds

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FRANKFORT, Ky.

 BODY:
It may not be as catchy as "Virginia Is for Lovers" or as imitable as "I <heart> New York." But in a quest for higher name recognition and tourist dollars, Kentucky recently licensed its new logo -- a stylized horse incorporated in the word "Kentucky," followed by the tagline "What you've been looking for."
As a result, a line of T-shirts, sweatshirts, golf shirts and caps bearing the logo is being shipped to gift shops in most of Kentucky's state parks. If the merchandise proves popular, it will also be sold in retail stores throughout the state. 
 "We don't know how much money it will bring, but it will give us exposure," said Bob Stewart, the Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Travel Development. "And it's another example of how tourist agencies in most states are adopting the profit motive and forging partnerships with the private sector."
 
Shrinking Budgets
 Many public-private alliances result from desperation on the part of the states, whose tourism-advertising budgets have been slashed as much as 80 percent in recent years. Sixteen states plan to trim tourist budgets this fiscal year, according to the Washington-based United States Travel Data Center, and ad budgets for all states will decrease an average of 5.3 percent from last year. At the same time, the initial trickle of public-private partnerships has become a veritable flood.
While some tourism officials caution against embracing the private sector too tightly, or without having a coherent long-range strategy, the majority of officials see the alliances as a way out of budgetary straitjackets.
"A lot of state tourist directors came out of the private sector," said Carl Wilgus, Idaho's administrator of tourism, "and they're used to trying to leverage their marketing punch."
Virginia, seeking to make its 10 welcome centers self-sustaining, charges hotels, restaurants and attractions $25 to $55 to distribute their brochures in each center, and charges $650 for them to advertise on the centers' overhead displays. In addition, it charges owners of bed-and-breakfast lodgings a 10 percent commission for making reservations; that income partly pays for the state's office in Washington.
 
Remembering a Trail
 Corporate sponsors are picking up much of the tab for the yearlong Oregon Trail celebration, to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the 2,000-mile wagon train route from Missouri to the Oregon Territory.
The six New England states joined with Harrods department store in London last Christmas to promote tourism to their region, which already receives 250,000 British tourists a year. The Nashville airport, and the Memphis and Nashville convention and visitors bureaus have joined with the privately owned Opryland Hotel in Nashville and Graceland, Elvis Presley's home in Memphis, to attract tourists from Britain.
Florida's special-events calendar is underwritten by Holiday Inns, and the state's guides for Japanese, Spanish, French and German visitors are underwritten by Coca-Cola. An Arkansas program to encourage Arkansans to vacation in their home state is also getting financial support from Coca-Cola.
 
Getting Others to Pay
 The State of Washington saved thousands of dollars last year by privatizing its annual tourism conference. Local visitors and convention bureaus organized it and allowed private businesses to attend for a fee. Washington expects to save up to $50,000 this year by letting the hotel and motel association produce its statewide lodging and attractions guide, supported by advertising.
At least a dozen states have recently begun accepting advertising in their tourist publications. Tennessee, for example, did so partly because its state ad budget was cut $1.5 million in the current fiscal year. And New Jersey has saved $850,000 in each of the last two years by having its three major tourist guides published by private magazines that sell ads for them.
Pennsylvania has also realized substantial savings.
"Three years ago we were spending about $1 million a year on our visitor's guide," said Ron Jury, a spokesman with the Pennsylvania Department of Commerce. "When we began accepting advertising, private industry contributed about $500,000 the first year. The second year, industry paid more than $700,000, and we increased the size from 192 pages to 232. We hope we get to the point where the guide is self-sustaining."
 
Making Pitches Abroad
 Eager to lure international visitors, many states put together discounted tour packages for foreigners with airlines, hotels and rental car companies.
Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia and Kentucky jointly developed discount packages sold through German travel agencies, promoting Appalachia to German tourists. Rhode Island and Pennsylvania are also partners with private operators in offering tours to Germans.
Rhode Island has also developed tours for Canadian visitors in conjunction with Collette Travel Service and Conway's Bus Service. California has lured Canadian tourists with discount packages put together with Air Canada and Canadian Airlines International, while Oregon has lured Canadians with promotions through Horizon Air, a regional carrier.
Oregon has also recruited Nike, Bank of America, Delta Air Lines and Columbia Sportswear to serve as party hosts for events like the Tournament of the Americas, a qualifying event for the Olympic Games, and for groups of travel agents or Hollywood scouts looking for movie locations.
"Every promotion we've been involved in during the last two years has had some private-sector involvement," said Susan Bladholm of the Oregon Tourism Division.
 
Measuring the Payback
 Although tourism officials say they understand that they could not escape the budgetary cutbacks that have befallen many other state agencies, they also say that deep cuts are self-defeating, pointing to independent studies that show that states receive an average of $9 in tourist spending for every dollar spent on tourist advertising. In Alabama, the ratio is $25 to $1.
Nevertheless, Kentucky's advertising and marketing budget for tourism was cut from $2.5 million last year to $1.6 million this year, even though tourism is the state's second-largest industry (with a $5.3 billion impact) and third-largest employer (133,000 people).
Thus, in addition to licensing its logo, for which it will receive 70 percent of the profits, Kentucky is trying to get private-sector money to encourage greater tourism. For example, it is linking up with Toyota and Ford, both of which manufacture vehicles in the state.
Toyota put photos and videos of Kentucky in many showrooms in Japan, and customers who bought the Scepter wagon received a basket of Kentucky handcrafts, as well as a "Made in Kentucky" license plate. Ford is promoting Kentucky in a sweepstakes contest, with the prize being an Explorer built in Louisville. The state, which is co-sponsoring the sweepstakes, is featured in the Ford television advertising, and the tourist bureau plans to send each contestant its guide to Kentucky outdoors
In New York State, where tourism is the second-largest industry ($19.2 billion) and accounts for 10 percent of all private-sector jobs, the advertising budget -- $15 million as recently as 1988 -- was slashed to $3 million in both 1991 and 1992. The 1993 advertising budget was doubled to $6 million.
 
Wooing Germans
 New York State and Delta recently forged a partnership designating Delta the official "I <heart> New York" airline from Germany. Each partner will invest about $250,000 in joint promotions in international publications, tourist brochures, trade-show exhibits and tours of New York for foreign travel agents and tour operators. The state has a similar tie-in with Alitalia, the Italian carrier, and is negotiating one with Japan Airlines.
Reflecting the dominant view of public-private partnerships, Richard Trammel, the head of tourism in North Carolina, said, "In today's climate any revenue that helps tourism and promotion is likely to be good revenue."
Nevertheless, some state officials caution that outside funds are no substitute for a state budget that is not pared at every sign of economic downturn.
New York officials, for example, note that the "I <heart> New York" logo has earned only slightly more than $100,000 a year since it was licensed in the United States two years ago.
"That will grow, but there was an expectation that the logo was like California raisins, and would generate millions of dollars, " said Steve Morello, deputy commissioner of advertising and marketing for the New York State Department of Economic Development. "But that's not the nature of licensing, although it is a way to raise extra cash."
 
A Note of Caution
 John Savich, tourism director for the State of Washington, probably has more reservations than most of his counterparts, warning that such relationships can be seductive -- or, as he put it, like buying things on sale that you don't need.
"Just because it's a good deal financially, it's important to remember that public agencies have public-policy objectives," he said. It is also important, he added, not to let the tourist literature be dominated by advertisers in one part of the state.
"I don't think I'd want to sell advertising for our seasonal guide," he said, "because we want every page of it full of activities and maps that will generate the most off-season travel, not the most ad dollars. Tourism can't just be about more. It has to be about when and where."
Lisa Shivers, director of the Alabama Bureau of Tourism and Travel, pointed out another problem: "When you explain to your legislature that you can keep costs down for your tourist publications by accepting ads, they say, 'Great, we can cut your budget by that much.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We don't know how much money it will bring, but it will give us exposure," Bob Stewart, the Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Travel Development, said about his state's new logo. (Keith Williams for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA USA (59%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (55%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (55%); US TRAVEL DATA CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); KENTUCKY, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; STATES (US) TOURISM (90%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); STATE PARKS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



480 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises on Speculation Interest Rates Will Increase

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced against other major currencies yesterday amid speculation that United States interest rates soon might head higher.
Gold prices finished mixed after surging last week on inflation concerns. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery shed 20 cents a troy ounce, to $367.50. The Republic National Bank quoted a late gold bid of $366.50 an ounce, down 80 cents. 
 Currency dealers said the dollar traded near the top of its recent range and ended the New York session well above its opening levels. There were no market-moving developments but a perception that interest rates might move higher at least in the near term provided some incentive to buy dollars, dealers said.
Higher United States rates would enhance returns on dollar-denominated investments.
 
Wait-and-See Attitude
 But the buying was restrained in part because financial markets were not convinced that rates would make a decisive upward move.
Forecasters believe Federal Reserve policy makers will take a wait-and-see approach when they meet in a closed session today. Worries about inflationary pressures building in the economy will be weighed against signs of sluggish growth, analysts said.
Traders were cautiously awaiting the outcome of Danish voting on a treaty on closer European union. The treaty was already rejected once by Danish voters and today's referendum could decide the course of the European Community's progress toward creating a tighter political and economic bloc.
Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Mitsubishi Bank, said it was widely expected that the Danes would endorse the treaty. But an unexpected "no" vote could unsettle financial markets.
The dollar moved lower against the Japanese yen in Tokyo trading. It closed in Japan at 110.77 yen, down 0.88 yen from Friday's close. But later in London, the dollar was quoted at 111.40 yen. By 4 P.M. in New York, the dollar stood at 111.30 yen, up from 110.80 yen on Friday.
The British pound fell to $1.5320, from $1.5387 late Friday. Sterling also declined in New York dealing where the pound fetched $1.5360 at 4 P.M. compared with $1.5385 late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); BRITISH POUND (78%); EURO (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); REFERENDUMS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



481 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
North America's History, One Person at a Time

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Wilderness at Dawn
The Settling of the North American Continent
By Ted Morgan
Illustrated. 541 pages. Simon & Schuster.
$27.50. 
 In his latest book, the writer Ted Morgan turns from the biography of an individual (Winston Churchill, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Somerset Maugham, William S. Burroughs) to the biography of a continent. His subject in this sprawling, peripatetic volume is the settling of North America, from the advent here of early man, who strolled over the Bering land bridge from Asia around 40,000 B.C., through the 17th-century European colonization of the eastern shore and the post-Revolutionary War conquest of the Middle West. A second volume chronicling the settlement of the remainder of the United States and Canada is in the works.
In his autobiography, "Rowing Toward Eden" (1981), Mr. Morgan described his episodic sense of the past: "We have shafts of memory between dark spaces," he wrote, "so that life remembered takes on the features of an archipelago, mostly submerged, with points of land rising above the sea's surface." A similar eagerness to dwell on isolated moments in time informs "Wilderness at Dawn." Though the major events of early American history, familiar to the reader from high school textbooks, are glancingly recounted here, the focus is narrow, not wide-angled. It is through the reminiscences of individual and often little-known explorers, settlers, slaves and entrepreneurs that Mr. Morgan recounts the bulk of his story.
That story somewhat unnecessarily begins, much like a parody of a Michener novel, with the presence of dinosaurs and three-toed horses on the North American continent, followed in due course by the first humans. These earliest settlers left Central Asia, Mongolia and northern China and eventually became the ancestors of the North American Indians, as well as the Mayas, the Aztecs and Incas.
From here, Mr. Morgan moves on to the famous voyages and explorations of Columbus, Vespucci, de Leon, Magellan, Cartier, de Soto and Coronado. These accounts, well-written but highly compressed orchestrations of incredibly familiar material, are followed by equally familiar accounts of the Jamestown settlement in Virginia, the Pilgrims' arrival at Plymouth, Mass., the landing of the Dutch in New York Harbor and the so-called great migration, which saw the arrival on American shores of thousands of English settlers fleeing economic depression, unemployment and religious persecution.
As Mr. Morgan chronicles the gradual westward expansion of the European settlements, his narrative grows dense with colorful anecdotes detailing the texture of daily life in the New World. The reader hears frontier stories about a captive Indian woman being "ordered to be torn to pieces by dogs" and about four Indian boys being sent to Harvard College. Smallpox epidemics, violent confrontations with Indians and harrowing encounters with frostbite and starvation are all recounted through the eyes of individual witnesses.
The reader meets people like John Gyles, the son of a strict Puritan, who spent six years as an Indian captive and who eventually returned to Boston, thankful he had seen, in Mr. Morgan's words, "much of the goodness of God at an early age." There is William Byrd, one of Virginia's richest men at the end of the 17th century, who left a detailed journal of his sexual and culinary appetites; Eliza Lucas, a frontier woman who pioneered the cultivation of indigo as a cash crop, and Jacob Weber, a Swiss immigrant who founded a short-lived sect in which he set himself up as God (and his two chief disciples as the Son and the Holy Ghost).
The large, momentous events that shaped the fate of America -- the French and Indian War, the Stamp Act, the defeat of the British at Saratoga -- happen, for the most part, offstage or in the background, as Mr. Morgan increasingly focuses on smaller everyday struggles. He gives the reader an often intimate sense of what daily life was like in both the increasingly genteel part of the country that had established law and government institutions and the rough-and-ready frontier, where outlaws and Indians continued to pose a daily threat.
In keeping with recent efforts to create more balanced, multicultural accounts of America's history, Mr. Morgan makes every effort to present the point of view of Indians, blacks and women. The reader finishes the book with a poignant sense of some of the terrible costs incurred in the establishment of this nation and a solid appreciation of the ways in which Indians and slaves were frequently used as pawns in the struggles between the European powers (France, Britain and Spain) and later between the Colonies and Britain.
Filled with vivid incidents and written in hearty, nimble prose, Mr. Morgan's chronicle makes for highly compelling reading. What the book most noticeably lacks is a point of view that might lend the narrative's copious details a sense of historical direction. Although some tired and cursory references are made to Frederick Jackson Turner's famous frontier thesis (the argument that the American sensibility was definitively shaped by the possibilities afforded by seemingly limitless land), Mr. Morgan never amplifies these observations. Nor does he bring a fresh perspective to his material that might pull his random observations into a coherent thesis. As a result "Wilderness at Dawn" remains more of a readable collection of absorbing anecdotes than an original work of historical interpretation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted Morgan (Julie Thayer/Simon & Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WILDERNESS AT DAWN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (77%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (77%); CANADA (73%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%); SMALLPOX (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%); RELIGION (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGAN, TED; KAKUTANI, MICHIKO TED MORGAN (96%); WILLIAM S BURROUGHS (58%); FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



482 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Continue Decline

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Inflation fears continued to drive Treasury prices lower yesterday, and the yield on the 30-year bond inched closer to 7 percent. As a result, more and more traders and investors were talking about the end of the bond market rally of 1993.
Short-term interest rates, meanwhile, moved sharply higher as investors wondered whether the Federal Reserve would push up rates to curb any increase in inflation. The Fed's monetary policy committee -- the Federal Open Market Committee -- is to meet in Washington today to set that policy for the next six weeks. 
 While the Fed is not expected to increase short-term interest rates at this meeting, the discussion is likely to focus on inflation. As such, more analysts seem to expect that the Fed will have to raise interest rates before the end of the year.
 
 
'A Sea Change in Sentiment'
 "It is a sea change in sentiment that they are even asking that question," said Alan Levenson, money market economist at UBS Securities. He said he had been trying to persuade customers and traders that the Fed would not decide to raise interest rates at today's meeting.
Lawrence A. Kudlow, the chief economist at Bear, Stearns & Company, argues that the recent rise in the price of gold, which has surged more than $25 an ounce over the last two weeks, is a sign that investors think the Federal Reserve is being too easy with monetary policy. He also said that if the Federal Reserve did not act soon to raise interest rates, "they risk a takeoff in speculation in gold."
Mr. Kudlow does not watch the popular measures of the nation's money supply, which have been surprisingly weak this year. He thinks they are distorted by the fact that investors have been taking their money out of banks and putting it in mutual funds. His concern is the broader monetary base and the Fed's purchases of Treasury bills and notes, which he says are growing much too fast.
 
 
Mild Inflation Expected
 "There is a big shift in expectations," he said, after the surprisingly large jumps in the producer and consumer price indexes for April, which were reported last week. "Interest rate expectations are now changing from lower interest rates to higher rates," he added. "Inflation expectations are changing from deflation to at least mild inflation."
In trading in the secondary market, the price of the 7.25 percent bond that matures in February 2023 was off 8/32 as the yield rose to 6.96 percent, up from 6.94 percent on Friday. This is the highest yield on the long bond since early April. And since last week's inflation reports, the yield has jumped from 6.81 percent, or 15 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
 
Rise in Short-Term Rates
 The rise on short-term interest rates has been just as striking. At the weekly auction of Treasury bills, the average discount rate on the three-month bill was 3 percent, up from 2.89 percent a week earlier. The average discount rate on the six-month bill was 3.10 percent, up from 2.99 percent a week earlier.
The interest rates on bills are also rising because the size of the weekly auctions has grown. In the beginning of the second quarter, the size of the bill auctions was cut because the income tax revenue that was coming in cut the Government's borrowing needs temporarily.
As a result of the cutbacks in the bill auctions, as well as the belief at that time that the Federal Reserve might push interest rates even lower to maintain economic growth, the discount rate on the three-month bill had dropped to 2.77 percent, while the rate on the six-month bill had fallen to 2.90 percent.
 
Samurai Bonds
 New York City will be pricing $917 million of bonds today or tomorrow, including $205 million of bonds denominated in yen. The so-called Samurai bonds are another example of how governments are trying to lower their borrowing costs by inventing new types of bond and derivative products or by trying to find a new market for their bonds.
The sale of the Samurai bonds has been planned since the beginning of the year, when City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman traveled to Japan to test the market there and to promote the city's securities.
The New York sale will be the largest part of what is expected to be about $3 billion of new tax-exempt issues to be sold today. How prices hold up against this onslaught of supply will be a good test of the allure of tax-exempt issues, which analysts say have yet to rally as much as they should, considering that an increase in tax rates is expected to be approved this year as part of President Clinton's deficit reduction plan and economic program. Prices in the municipal market were little changed yesterday.
Following are the results of the Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills yesterday:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	99.242	98.433	Discounted Rate	3.00%	3.10%	Coupon Yield	3.06%	3.19%	High Price	99.249	98.443	Discounted Rate	2.97%	3.08%	Coupon Yield	3.04%	3.17%	Low Price	99.242	98.428	Discounted Rate	3.00%	3.11%	Coupon Yield	3.06%	3.20%	Accepted at low price	64%	46%	Total applied for	$45,074,386	$37,265,976	Accepted	$12,091,810	$12,028,856	N.Y. applied for	$41,234,296	$34,293,731	N.Y. accepted	$10,541,090	$10,453,191	Noncompetitive	$1,316,939	$954,451	

Both these issues are dated May 20, 1993. The three-month bills mature on Aug. 19, 1993 and the six-month bills on Nov. 18, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction since mid-January. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (67%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (79%); DEFLATION (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



483 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Stumps For His Program In '92-Like Blitz

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, May 17

 BODY:
Rock music blared from loudspeakers on stage in New Mexico. The audience was packed with the mandatory shrieking school children who were bused in from all over the state. The visiting politician toured a local point of interest and pronounced himself awed by machines that made good props for his message of the day.
The feel of a campaign rally was in the air today, possibly more than at any other event since President Clinton took office, as he visited a high school in Los Alamos, N.M., to promote his economic program and toured the laboratory where the atomic bomb was made -- and where the machines of war are now being used for peaceful purposes. 
 Then he arrived here, recalling last year's campaign to a crowd of more than 1,000 supporters at the airport. "We will not stop," he declared, "until we've turned this state around."
Mr. Clinton plugged his plan for the economy at his final stop in San Diego, his second prime-time town meeting since taking office. Asked what happened to his promised middle-class tax cut, the President said, "Give me four years to try to deliver on the middle-class tax cut."
As he hit the road for the second time in a week, the President even made one of those small mistakes that plague candidates as they stump from town to town. He drew teasing jeers from the audience in New Mexico when he called the city "Los Angeles."
 
Defining His Presidency
 As he seeks to regain control of the public presentation of his Presidency and his programs, Mr. Clinton turned back to the sort of events that defined his candidacy: the made-for-the-cameras tour of a high-tech plant, the raucous outdoor rally and the televised town meeting tonight in San Diego. On Tuesday, Mr. Clinton is to tour South-Central Los Angeles, an area he last visited on the heels of the riots that broke out there last year.
It would have been impossible to mask the political nature of this week's schedule; the President is expected to travel this weekend to New Hampshire, the site of the first Presidential primary, to deliver a commencement address at the New Hampshire Technical College.
But White House aides made no attempt to disguise the notion that politics was driving the trip out West. More than any other state, perhaps, California is the one Mr. Clinton cannot neglect if he is to be re-elected in 1996.
The events, the first half of a two-day Western swing, left little opportunity for the President to stray from a carefully scripted effort to promote his economic program and to avoid questions about Bosnia, the fate of his long-awaited health-care program, fights with Congress and other political battles that he has confronted lately. At the town meeting here tonight, Mr. Clinton was spared questions on those issues; he was asked mostly about how he would try to turn around the economy.
After touring Los Alamos National Laboratory -- he seemed particularly intrigued by a model of a car that runs on fuel cells -- Mr. Clinton sought to highlight the importance of military conversion in developing a postwar economy in a speech at Los Alamos High School.
"We must change our priorities, no matter how difficult it is," he declared to a flag-waving crowd of 10,000 gathered in the school's football field. "That is the challenge of this day, and we must meet it."
The only twist from a typical campaign event was the bipartisanship: Perhaps having learned a lesson from the Republicans' scuttling of his economic stimulus plan in the Senate, the President took Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, along with him on Air Force One for the flight from Washington to Albuquerque.
Mr. Domenici and the state's junior Senator, Jeff Bingaman, a Democrat who also flew in with Mr. Clinton, stood on the stage with the President at the high school. Senator Domenici expressed his gratitude for the time he got with Mr. Clinton. "I want to thank you for the most pleasant ride home I've ever had," he said as the crowd roared.
 
'Gliding Over Our Differences'
 When he took his turn on the podium, the President put in a good word for the Republican. "I thought Senator Domenici did a pretty good job of gliding over our differences and getting it right in there," he said with a laugh.
Citing the 50th anniversary of Los Alamos National Laboratory, which is situated on 43 square miles of mesas and canyons about 35 miles northwest of Santa Fe, Mr. Clinton said, "When we needed the muscle to win the cold war, the long and costly effort to contain and then to triumph over Communism, the ideas that made that possible came out of these laboratories."
He then told how Los Alamos laboratory, which is managed by the University of California for the Department of Energy, is retooling for civilian high-tech uses. It has an annual budget estimated at $1 billion and about 7,500 employees. Federal officials have said that 300 to 400 of those jobs will be cut in the next year, many through early retirement.
It is time, Mr. Clinton said, for research and development installations to follow the lead of Los Alamos and explore new technologies.
 
It's the Economy. Period.
 As did a handful of other speakers, Mr. Clinton mentioned that "President Kennedy stood in this very spot just over 30 years ago and saluted the great patriots of Los Alamos."
At every stop, White House officials said, the aim was to convince the public that the budget deficit is a big problem -- and one that Mr. Clinton inherited.
Asked if the President would veer from his economic message, one White House official replied incredulously, "Not if my life depends on it -- this is purely straight up on the economy."
The cheering partisans in New Mexico seemed to follow along with the White House script. Several people said in interviews that they were as excited about Mr. Clinton as they were during the campaign.
"He's a real fine fellow," said Travis Wood, a retired postal worker from Roy, N.M., who put his age at "past 80." "I think he ought to have a little more cooperation from the other side of the aisle."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, Gov. Bruce King and Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, in glasses, greeting Taos Pueblo Indians after the Indians performed the National Anthem yesterday in Los Alamos. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; SAN DIEGO (CALIF); LOS ALAMOS (NM) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); POP & ROCK (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); LEGISLATION (64%); HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (93%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



484 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Leading Conservative Democrat Criticizes Clinton

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17

 BODY:
Representative Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, one of President Clinton's earliest supporters and a leading conservative Democrat, accused Mr. Clinton today of betraying the spirit of his Presidential campaign and governing like a traditional liberal.
Mr. McCurdy warned in a series of interviews that a growing number of Democratic members of the House had told him that they opposed Mr. Clinton's proposed tax increases, a movement that Mr. McCurdy suggested could torpedo the Administration's economic package. 
 Moderate and conservative Democrats, the Congressman said, "are shaking their heads that the deficit at the end of the Clinton Administration -- after the largest tax increase in history -- will be as large as during the Bush Administration. The soulmates are feeling left out."
Mr. McCurdy's disappointment with the Administration has recently been expressed by other lawmakers, but not for publication. One member of the Democratic House leadership said last week, "At this point, we don't have the votes" to pass Mr. Clinton's package of taxes and spending cuts.
Mr. McCurdy and two other Democratic lawmakers, Timothy J. Penny of Minnesota and Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, are threatening to oppose the package unless party leaders let them offer amendments adding over $50 billion in budget cuts and capping the growth of benefit programs like Medicare and Social Security.
 
Evidence of Erosion
 Nevertheless, most Congressional strategists say that when push comes to shove, the Republicans will fall short of winning over the 40 or so Democrats they would need to defeat Mr. Clinton's economic program. The more serious challenge is expected in the Senate.
Even if Mr. McCurdy's public display of frustration is not a sign that the Administration is heading for a major defeat in the House, it is evidence that Mr. Clinton's original base of Democratic conservatives and moderates may be eroding. The extent of Mr. McCurdy's discontent may become more apparent on Tuesday when Howard Paster, the chief White House lobbyist, meets with the Mainstream Forum, a group of 50 moderate and conservative House Democrats that Mr. McCurdy heads.
The meeting was organized after members of the group complained that they were not receiving a sufficient hearing from the White House.
"Much of the President's appeal during the campaign was campaigning as a new Democrat," Mr. McCurdy said. "The rhetoric has been new, but the programs have been old."
The Congressman expressed particular disenchantment with the proposed energy tax, noting a University of Oklahoma study predicting it would cost his oil-producing state 11,000 jobs.
 
Longtime Clinton Supporter
 Mr. McCurdy, like Mr. Clinton, has long been active in the Democratic Leadership Council, a group designed to move the party to the center. He endorsed Mr. Clinton's Presidential candidacy long before the New Hampshire primary and served as an important adviser during the campaign.
The lawmaker said he had had several frank conversations with both the President and his wife, Hillary, in recent months, in which he criticized the Administration for its tax program and its failure to consult with moderate Democratic lawmakers on social issues like the proposal to let foreign AIDS patients enter the United States.
Mr. McCurdy has a history of criticizing senior members of his party, for which Speaker Foley punished him late last year by refusing to reappoint him as chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence. Mr. McCurdy initially earned Mr. Foley's ire by denouncing to other lawmakers the Speaker's performance during the House bank scandal. He then privately asked senior military officers to lobby for his appointment as Secretary of Defense; naming him rather than Les Aspin, Mr. McCurdy argued, would prevent Representative Ronald V. Dellums, a liberal from California, from succeeding Mr. Aspin as chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); LOBBYING (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (63%); 

PERSON: MCCURDY, DAVID (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



485 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Henry Arthur, 89, Harvard Professor Of Business Ethics

 BODY:
Henry Bradford Arthur, professor emeritus at the Harvard Business School and an expert on agribusiness and business ethics, died on Sunday at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 89.
He had been ill for a long time, the business school said yesterday. 
 Professor Arthur joined the Harvard faculty at age 56 after a career as an economist in industry and government. He joined Harvard in 1960 as its first George M. Moffett Professor of Agriculture and Business. Until his retirement in 1970, he developed courses on agribusiness management and created doctoral and executive-education programs.
In recognition of his work, the business school established a Henry B. Arthur Fund for Business Ethics to support research and teaching in ethics and corporate responsibility.
A native of Gloversville, N.Y., he graduated from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., where he majored in mathematics and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After receiving his master's and Ph.D. degrees at Harvard, he started a career at Swift & Company, the food processor, and became its chief economist in 1939.
He took leave from the company to hold Federal positions. In the late 1940's, he was chief of the Marshall Plan's program review division in Paris, and he was appointed to the Wage Stabilization Board during the Korean War.
Professor Arthur's first wife, the former Charlotte Beals, died in 1980. He is survived by his second wife, Eunice P. Howe; a daughter, Janice Arthur McCoy of Pacific Palisades, Calif.; a son, Bradford, of San Francisco; a brother, Richard S., of Schenectady; two stepdaughters, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Henry Bradford Arthur (1960)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SWIFT & CO (69%); PHI BETA KAPPA (56%); PHI BETA KAPPA (56%); MARSHALL PLAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (56%); PHI BETA KAPPA (56%); MARSHALL PLAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); BUSINESS ETHICS (92%); ETHICS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); STEPPARENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (51%); KOREAN WAR (51%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR, HENRY BRADFORD BRAD HENRY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



486 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Schools Can't Learn a Think From Post Office;
Decentralization's Fault

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"The School Mess, Getting Worse" (editorial, May 1), commenting on a report for the New York City schools that details blatant corruption in a Bronx school district, holds no surprise for me. I can only wonder why it took so long to discover that "the present system of school governance undermines education."
In 1968, as president of the Board of Education, I wrote the minority report against decentralization. I called it a political answer to a failing education system, arguing: "local autonomy in school, as in other government affairs, inevitably will lead to ward politics, to corruption and to inefficiency." The press and some community organizations criticized me. 
 Five years later a group of educators asked, "What has New York learned about decentralization?" Here are some of the answers: "It makes for waste and inefficiency, it has not improved education, it has encouraged political corruption and mismanagement of funds."
In May 1972 you published a letter from me in which I quoted Dr. Kenneth Clark, the psychologist, who was an ardent supporter of community control. When realizing its failures, he wrote: "School decentralization is failing because local boards were more interested in power than in better schools."

 Investigations of the excesses of these boards have been made over the years, and nothing has been done to correct the problem. In a January 1987 editorial, "Yes, Review School Decentralization," you quoted Robert F. Wagner Jr., then president of the Board of Education: "The system has become so mired in politics and patronage as to stifle educational reform." Again nothing was done!
The school mess is getting worse and will continue to worsen until all parties involved come to the realization that decentralization is a simplistic answer to a problem that is deep and complex. Scientific studies have indicated that the quality of the school in any district is closely tied to the economic and educational levels of that district. Those who are diverting attention from poverty, which is the major cause of the low achievement of children, are doing a disservice to both children and society.
Decentralization makes it possible for extremists from the right and the left and those with vested interests to take control. Responsibility for the school system should rest with the Mayor, who with the assistance of a distinguished review panel, should have the power to appoint nonsalaried, nonpolitical people to the board. Serving on the board should be considered a public service by those whose only interest is the welfare of the children.
 
ROSE SHAPIRO
Lauderhill, Fla., May 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: THE POST OFFICE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE CORRUPTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, ROSE KENNETH MACKENZIE CLARK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



487 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 18, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Two former Manufacturers Hanover vice presidents were indicted and charged with using improper influence and inside knowledge to buy Colombian Government debt at a discount and reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in personal profit. The indictment revealed the existence of an investigation into the largely unregulated foreign debt market by the Manhattan District Attorney and the Federal Reserve. [Page D1.]
Time Warner's chairman, Gerald M. Levin, has reassured both Wall Street and his own managers of his ability to bring together an unwieldy group of egos allied in the merger of Time and Warner Communications in the six months since the death of Steven J. Ross, his predecessor. [D1.] 
 The merging of cable television and telephone technology -- like that envisioned in the $2.5 billion association between U S West and Time Warner -- has been going on for years in Britain, which has served as a huge test for such services. [D1.]
Xerox reached a breakthrough in video screens that could achieve photographic clarity in products combining a computer and television in a flat panel no thicker than a pad of paper. [D1.]
B. F. Goodrich will pay $200 million for Cleveland Pneumatic, Abex's landing-gear unit, to expand its aerospace business. [D4.]
GPA Group will make interest and principal payments to bondholders, aiding its aquisition by GE Capital. [D4.]
Nordstrom is exploring selling merchandise on interactive cable television, allowing shoppers to see specific goods. [D4.]
JWP agreed to sell its information services unit to management in a plan to restructure around its core businesses. [D4.]
Kmart announced an 80 percent decline in first-quarter earnings because of harsh weather and one-time charges. [D4.]
 
International
Mexico's central bank would be fully free of Government control, independently managing the money supply, under a constitutional amendment offered by President Salinas de Gortari. [D2.]
 
The Economy
Many states are forming partnerships with private companies to promote tourism, as state tourism-advertising budgets have been slashed as much as 80 percent in recent years. [D1.]
The image of alternative energy sources is getting a sprucing up with a nonprofit group's recent study highlighting their potential in the nation's heartland. [D2.]
President Clinton's promotional tour for his economic program headed west, where he emphasized the need for weapons makers to retool for civilian high-technology uses. [A14.]
Legislation requiring New York employers to develop policies for investigating charges of sexual harassment and for disciplining those found guilty was proposed by Governor Cuomo. [B6.]
 
Markets
Stocks were subdued after two straight declines but closed modestly higher. The Dow industrials gained 6.92 points. [D8.]
The 30-year Treasury bond inched closer to a 7 percent yield as inflation fears continued to drive Treasury prices lower. [D16.]
The dollar advanced against other major currencies. Gold was mixed. [D19.] Corn and soybeans fell. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
E-Systems, a spying company, is increasing work in civilian industries but Wall Street is wary. Market Place. [D8.]
Foote, Cone & Belding is considering a second agency network to accelerate its comeback from lagging billings and profitability. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A note in the Business Digest in some editions yesterday misstated the reason for the omission of the mutual funds table from those editions. It resulted from computer malfunctions at The Times, not problems in transmission from The Associated Press.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (67%); GEC (LSE) (67%); GE (SWX) (67%); GE (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (67%); GOODRICH CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INFLATION (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (74%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); TOURISM (63%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1993



488 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
DANES BACK TREATY ON EUROPE
Bringing sighs of relief from Denmark's own Government and its European Community partners, Danish voters strongly ratified the Treaty on European Union that they had narrowly rejected in June. A1
 
BANKER ACCUSED OF PLAGIARISM
Jacques Attali, the flamboyant French technocrat, is accused of taking over 40 passages in his book from a planned work by Elie Wiesel and President Francois Mitterrand. A3 

CLINTON RECOGNIZES ANGOLA
Ending years of hostility by American governments that included support of a guerrilla insurgency, President Clinton decided to recognize Angola's Government. A1
 
PRESSURE ON CHINA'S PEASANTS
Tensions are rising in China as peasants are being squeezed by rising costs, illegal taxes and corrupt officials. And in a country with a 4,000-year history punctuated by peasant rebellions, signs of peasant discontent are taken seriously. A1
 
RUSSIA SEEKS U.S. ROLE
Insisting that Serbia's President still backed the peace plan for Bosnia, despite its rejection by Bosnian Serbs, Russia's Foreign Minister said he hoped that the United States would yet agree to a Security Council meeting to carry out the plan. A10
 
CONTAINMENT POLICY ON BOSNIA
New analysis: The Clinton Administration has dropped its campaign to turn the Balkan war into a fair fight and has set a much more limited goal of containing the war within Bosnia's borders. A10
 
SERBS CALL FOR SEPARATISM
Serbian nationalist leaders said that outside powers should accept the inevitability of a separate Serbian state on Bosnian territory. A10
 
The U.N. says voting in Cambodia will proceed despite threats. A7
 
An international police force is being planned for Haiti. A3
 
Russian judges suspended the trial against coup leaders. A5
 
Srinagar Journal: A descent from Paradise in Kashmir. A4
 
National A12-16
 
RISE OF UPSTART AIRLINES
New airlines like Kiwi and Reno are suddenly looking healthy, thanks to the demise of some large carriers and cutbacks by others. A1
 
CLINTON LOOKS WEST FOR SUPPORT
From his morning jog near San Diego to his afternoon visit to Los Angeles's riot-torn South-Central section, President Clinton set out to make the West Coast his political stronghold, much as the South was for President Ronald Reagan. A12
 
TRIAL REVEALS CULTURAL GAP
Two worlds are colliding in criminal court in Louisiana, the result of a shooting last fall that has reinforced a cultural gulf between the United States and Japan. A12
 
FAT'S LINK TO CANCER UNCLEAR
A new study has failed to find a clear-cut connection between dietary fat and breast cancer. But researchers cautioned that it was too early to rule out a link. A13
 
HAWAII HEALTH PLAN CALLED MODEL
Hawaii's universal health-care system, which insures 96.5 percent of the state's residents, could serve as a national model, officials from Hawaii say in a new report. A13
 
FRICTION IN DEMOCRATIC RANKS
House Democratic leaders scrambled to quash a challenge by three party conservatives to add strict controls on Medicare and Social Security spending to President Clinton's economic package. A14
 
FIGHTER WINS, BUT NOT AT HOME
A nurse from Ohio helped persuade the Clinton Administration to rethink its rules for the nation's hazardous waste incinerators. But her work did not stop an incinerator in her own backyard. A14
 
NEW PLAN FOR GAY SOLDIERS
A homosexual Congressman proposed a plan to allow gay men and lesbians to serve in the military and be open about their sexual orientation off duty, so long as they keep it private while on duty. A14
 
'CHAOTIC' QUOTES REARRANGED
The writer Janet Malcolm said Jeffrey Masson's exuberance led her to rearrange some of the "chaotic" things he said. A16
 
Dade County repealed its English-only law. A16
 
Education Page A17
 
MOVEMENT TOWARD 'INCLUSION'
A growing number of public schools are teaching severely handicapped children in regular classrooms. Some call it a breakthrough. Others say some children's needs are being sacrificed in a crusade. A1
 
A nurse takes charge at Penn. A17
 
Metro Digest B1
 
NEW YORKERS SPLIT ON DINKINS
Black New Yorkers continue to express overwhelming approval of Mayor Dinkins's stewardship of the city, while whites overwhelmingly disapprove, according to a New York Times/WCBS-TV poll. A1
 
HIGHER TURNOUT IN SCHOOL VOTING
Acknowledging that it had erred in its early estimates, New York City's Board of Elections said the turnout in this month's local school-board elections had in fact been the largest in two decades of such voting. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Fresh, healthful food (on a plane?). C1
At lunch with Alan King. C1
Wine Talk C1
A culinary gulf between the U.S. and Europe: innards. C3
 
Health Page C13
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
New poet laureate named. C15
Theater: "On a Clear Day You Can See Forever." C18
Music: Decline of the Debut. C15
Folk at the Y. C15
The Pop Life C17
Gonzalo Rubalcaba. C17
American Composers. C18
Dance: Tribute to Sir Kenneth
MacMillan. C15
Books: Novels on Vietnam. C19
Book Notes C20
Television: Culture channel planned for cable. C20
 
Sports B6-13
 
Baseball: Mets lose again. B9
Yanks defeat Twins. B9
Basketball: Knicks eliminate Hornets. B7
Column: Vecsey on the Montreal Forum. B7
Hockey: Canadiens beat Islanders in double overtime. B7
 
Obituaries D21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
Time to discipline the Democrats.
Violence in the post office.
Cambodia: the critical tests.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Quote unquote.
Itamar Rabinovich: Smile when you say peace.
Indran Amirthanayagam: Rogue elephants, deadly tigers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); DENMARK (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ANGOLA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); HAITI (79%); JAPAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); DENMARK (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ANGOLA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); HAITI (79%); JAPAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); HAWAII, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PLAGIARISM (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); COUPS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); AIRLINES (67%); HEALTH CARE (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); OILS & FATS (63%); BREAST CANCER (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



489 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1996 words

HEADLINE: New York's Blacks Back Dinkins But Whites Don't, Poll Indicates

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Six months before the mayoral election, black New Yorkers continue to express overwhelming approval of Mayor David N. Dinkins's stewardship of the city, while whites overwhelmingly disapprove, according to the latest New York Times/WCBS-TV poll.
In the meantime, his support among Hispanic New Yorkers has faded so much that they are now evenly divided in their views of him and are shaping up as a crucial swing vote, according to the poll. 
 By contrast, a preponderance of New Yorkers of all ethnic and racial groups say they believe conditions in the city are worse than they were four years ago and will become still worse over the next 10 to 15 years, with blacks only slightly less pessimistic. Residents cite crime as the problem that they most want the next mayor to focus on, followed by the economy, unemployment, homelessness and race relations -- and Mr. Dinkins's handling of each prompted lukewarm-to-negative ratings, except race relations.
Mr. Dinkins remains the strong favorite in the Sept. 14 Democratic primary, outpolling his nearest rival, City Council President Andrew J. Stein, by more than 30 percentage points among registered Democrats.
 
Strength in the Boroughs
 But if the general election were held today rather than on Nov. 2, the survey showed it would be a tossup between Mr. Dinkins and his Republican-Liberal challenger, Rudolph W. Giuliani, with 45 percent of registered voters backing Mr. Dinkins and 44 percent favoring Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Giuliani leads in Queens and Staten Island -- the two boroughs he carried in 1989, when he lost to Mr. Dinkins by 2 points citywide -- but now his margin over Mr. Dinkins in Queens is about half what it was then. But he shows surprising new strength in Brooklyn, which is the city's most populous borough and the one with the largest black population.
The telephone poll of 1,273 adult city residents was conducted May 10 to 14 by The Times and Channel 2 News and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Like all polls, the survey is just a snapshot. Mr. Giuliani has largely coasted on the momentum of his narrow loss, has not yet faced daily scrutiny in his campaign and could easily stumble. The Mayor is an incumbent, burdened by all the vicissitudes of three and a half years of governing, and is equipped with powerful advantages in fund-raising and access to the media, and events beyond the control of either could sharply redefine the race overnight.
Yet the survey revealed many troubling signs for the Mayor. While New Yorkers overall are split over the way Mr. Dinkins is handling his job -- with 41 percent approving and 42 percent disapproving -- there is deep cleavage along racial lines. Just 28 percent of whites approve of his performance in office, while 57 percent disapprove. Among blacks, 71 percent approve, while just 15 percent disapprove -- a 43-point gap between the races.
 
Hispanic Voters Split
 But by every measure, Hispanic New Yorkers are narrowly divided in their judgments of the Mayor, with 40 percent approving his job performance compared with a statistically indistinguishable 36 percent disapproving. Thirty-two percent called his term a success, while 34 percent said it was a failure, and 35 percent hold a generally favorable view of him while 32 percent have an unfavorable opinion.
In a matchup with Mr. Giuliani, Hispanic voters split their support exactly like the electorate as a whole, with 45 percent favoring the Mayor and 44 percent favoring Mr. Giuliani. By contrast, surveys of voters leaving the polls in 1989 showed Mr. Dinkins won about two-thirds of Hispanic votes cast, while Mr. Giuliani received one-third. Voters who identified themselves as Hispanic made up 13 percent of the electorate then, according to the surveys, blacks accounted for 28 percent and whites 56 percent.
In the poll, shifts among Hispanic voters accounted for some of the gains that Mr. Giuliani has made since 1989. He is now running even with Mr. Dinkins among female voters, who constitute a majority of the electorate, a group that he lost by eight points last time. That may also reflect the fact that he grappled for a clear stand on abortion early in his last campaign, before finally saying that he unequivocally supported a woman's right to choose.
On the other hand the closeness of the race suggests that the Mayor has consolidated his support slightly among skeptical white voters who may have feared that he would favor blacks if elected. On one of the most publicized controversies of his administration -- conflicts between blacks and Jews in Crown Heights, Brooklyn -- 60 percent of whites said he had treated the groups equally.
 
'The Race Is Stalemated'
 "The Mayor does seem to have gained some ground among the white ethnic groups, perhaps by being seen as evenhanded," said John Mollenkopf, a political science professor at the City University, who has published extensive studies of the 1989 elections. "Right now, the race is stalemated, and I think it'll continue to be until something happens to knock one down, or until one or the other succeeds in galvanizing the ambivalent voters with a vision for the city."
Under all the obvious bad news, the survey disclosed some strength in opportunities for Mr. Dinkins. Asked to name the best thing he had done, respondents chose two of the issues that he himself has most stressed -- improving race relations and hiring more police officers, each cited by 10 percent of respondents. Conversely, when New Yorkers were asked to cite the worst thing he had done, no one thing stood out; all items mentioned were in single digits and no one thing was cited by more than 5 percent of those surveyed. So Mr. Dinkins's opponents have the task of trying to sharpen this focus and persuading voters that the whole of the Mayor's shortcomings is greater than the sum of their parts.
If all politics is local, Mr. Dinkins may also benefit a bit. While 6 in 10 New Yorkers say the city is less safe today than four years ago, only 4 in 10 say their own neighborhood is less safe. At the same time, 4 in 10 say they see more police officers walking in their neighborhoods.
 
Issue of Race Relations
 Significantly, Mr. Dinkins's reputation as a racial conciliator cuts both ways. While respondents approve of the way that he is handling race relations by a margin of 5 to 3, only 47 percent of those surveyed now believe that is something a mayor can do much about, compared with 57 percent who said a mayor could do a lot about race relations during the 1989 campaign, suggesting that the high hopes that greeted Mr. Dinkins's election have markedly dissipated.
The Mayor compares favorably on this point with Mr. Giuliani, however. Voters were evenly split -- 23 percent to 20 percent -- on whether race relations would get better or worse if Mr. Dinkins were re-elected, while the other half said they would stay about the same. In contrast, 28 percent said race relations would get worse if Mr. Giuliani won, nearly twice the 15 percent who said they would get better. Forty percent said they would stay about the same if Mr. Giuliani were elected and 17 percent said they did not know.
The poll cannot measure the potential effects of turnout, enthusiasm or voter-registration efforts. No first-term incumbent black mayor of a major American city has been defeated in a re-election bid, and both camps sounded cautionary notes yesterday.
"These things are not going to remain steady," said David Garth, Mr. Giuliani's chief strategist. "I expect to go down substantially before we pull this off. I'm worried about powers of incumbency and vote-pulling operations. But whatever happens, it's going to be a horse race. The Mayor's base of strength is obviously not as strong as it was."
 
'Got My Attention'
 The Mayor's campaign manager, Bill Lynch, expressed concern at the poll's findings, particularly at the close race in Brooklyn and among women and Hispanic voters. "You sure got my attention on Brooklyn," he said.
Mr. Lynch added: "I don't know just what to make of it. We've really got to get out there pushing. This is a dead heat right now. But I don't want to do that at the expense of being complacent in the primary, and that's our first priority."
Mostly because of his cast-iron support among black voters, the Mayor retains a considerable advantage in the Democratic primary, with 49 percent of registered Democrats saying they would vote for him, compared with 16 percent for Mr. Stein, 8 percent for former Representative Herman Badillo, who announced his withdrawal in the middle of the survey to consider running for comptroller on a multiparty ticket perhaps in alliance with Mr. Giuliani, and 6 percent for Roy Innis, the national chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality.
But there is another worry for the Mayor. In recent years poll takers have frequently overstated black candidates' standing in pre-election polls when compared with the outcome on Election Day, even in contests with incumbents. Analysts at the Gallup Organization examined nine contests between 1982 and 1990 in which black and white candidates faced one another and concluded that when a black candidate led by fewer than 8 percentage points in the polls chances were he did not have a lead at all.
During the last two days of the survey, when voters were asked how Mr. Badillo's support for Mr. Giuliani would affect their support for Mr. Giuliani, nearly two-thirds said it would make no difference.
In another good sign for Mr. Dinkins, the Mayor led Mr. Giuliani by a margin of 2 to 1 among voters who said they knew someone who was gay, believed homosexuality was an acceptable life style, favored legalizing longterm homosexual relationships and teaching tolerance for homosexuals in the schools. That is significant because Mr. Dinkins has enjoyed strong gay support in the past and Mr. Giuliani has taken particular pains to urge tolerance for gay people.
The poll also offered an historical twist. In a testament to the passage of time and political fortunes, it showed that former Mayor Edward I. Koch would now defeat Mr. Dinkins by eight percentage points among all registered voters, virtually the reverse of the nine-point margin by which Mr. Dinkins defeated him in the 1989 Democratic primary.
 
How the City Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted May 10 to 14 with 1,273 adults in all parts of New York City. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of city exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each area in the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to borough, race, sex, and age.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult New Yorkers.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, it is plus or minus 5 percentage points for white registered voters, 7 points for black registered voters, and 9 points for Hispanic registered voters.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "How New Yorkers View Their City, Their Neighborhood . . ." shows attitudes of New Yorkers toward thier city; ". . . And Their Mayor" shows attitudes of Blacks, Hispanics, and Whites toward Mayor Dinkins. (Source: Based on 1,273 telephone interviews conducted May 10 to 14 with adult New Yorkers) (pg B3); a separate graph tracks percent of these groups who say they approve of the way david Dinkins is handling his job as Mayor. (Source: Based on polls conducted by the New York Times and WCBS-TV) (pg. A1)
 
Table: "How Voters Divide for Mayor"
 The percentage of people who say they would vote for each candidate if the November election were held today.

 	 	 	 	 	David	Rudolph		Andrew	Rudolph	Dinkins	Giuliani		Stein	Giuliani		 	 	 	 	45%	44%	Total (% of total)	30%	47%	 	 	 	 	 	Race	 	 	 	 	27%	  60%	  Whites (60%)	  25%	  57%	88%	  7%	  Blacks (25%)	  43%	  25%	45%	  44%	  Hispanic (14%)*	  30%	  46%	Sex	 	 	 	 	46%	  43%	  Men (48%)	  30%	  52%	43%	  45%	  Women (52%)	  29%	  43%	Borough	 	 	 	 	41%	  46%	  Brooklyn (27%)	  27%	  47%	49%	  43%	  Bronx (15%)	  32%	  43%	61%	  28%	  Manhattan (23%)	 34%	  40%	39%	  47%	  Queens (28%)	  30%	  50%	16%	  81%	  Staten Island (7%)	 19%	  71%	Age	 	 	 	 	47%	  42%	  18-29 years old (23%)	33%	  46%	47%	  43%	  30-44 years old (30%)	30%	  51%	44%	  47%	  45-64 years old (28%)	31%	  46%	40%	  47%	  65 and older (19%)	 22%	  45%	
Religious affiliation

26%	  60%	  White Protestants (7%) 21	  67%	 	18%	  73%	  White Catholics (27%)	17%	  71%	92%	  4%	  Black Protestants (17%) 48	  24%	 	80%	  9%	  Black Catholics (5%)	33%	  37%	33%	  45%	  Jewish (16%)	  35%	  37%	
Political views

59%	  30%	  Liberals (31%)	  36%	  35%	44%	  44%	  Moderates (39%)	 29%	  48%	29%	  61%	  Conservatives (27%)	 22%	  63%	
Household income

48%	  35%	  Under $15,000 (11%)	 32%	  38%	54%	  34%	  $15,000 to $29,999 (26%) 31%	  39%	 	42%	  48%	  $30,000 to $49,999 (33%) 32%	  47%	 	38%	  52%	  $50,000 to $75,000 (14%) 25%	  57%	 	39%	  50%	  Over $75,000 (14%)	 30%	  60%	
Say in 15 years the city will . . .

66%	  24%	  Get better (22%)	  34%	  38%	52%	  36%	  Stay the same (23%)	 41%	  41%	32%	  58%	  Get worse (51%)	  22%	  55%	
 
Based on 842 telephone interviews with adult New Yorkers who said they were registered to vote conducted May 10 to 14.
 
*Hispanic respondents can be of any race. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; LIBERAL PARTY (NYS) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL ; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY; LIBERAL PARTY (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); FORECASTS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS ; PRIMARIES POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (79%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (79%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); ETHNICITY (70%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) ; STEIN, ANDREW J (CITY COUNCIL PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



490 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Trying to Claim West Coast as His Turf

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 18

 BODY:
From his morning jog on the Pacific shore near San Diego to his afternoon visit to a basketball court in riot-torn South-Central Los Angeles, President Clinton set out today to make the West Coast his political stronghold, much as the South was for President Ronald Reagan.
But success is far from assured because of the faltering economy here and the sustained popularity of Ross Perot. 
 As if Election Day were tomorrow, Mr. Clinton geared his speeches, television appearances and private meetings in the last 24 hours to a message tailor-made for the state: he will use the powers of his office to save California from economic devastation.
Noting that he had dispatched his Commerce Secretary, Ronald H. Brown, to lead a group that will try to bolster the state's economy, Mr. Clinton declared at a rally in San Diego: "We will not start until we have turned this state around and moved this state forward."
 
No Easy Task
 It will not be easy. Mr. Brown, who has visited California seven times since taking office (and who shed his tie to join the basketball game), described a tough political task: "We have a lot of work to do. We want to demonstrate we're here over time. We're not here to impose anything on the state."
Not all the residents in this state of 54 electoral votes were impressed with the attention. As he sought to promote his economic program this afternoon at Los Angeles Valley College in the Van Nuys district, he was heckled by a dozen or so demonstrators shouting, "No New Taxes!" and "You're breaking your promises!"
Cutting off his critics, Mr. Clinton said: "We tried their way for 12 years. Look where it got us. You know what the no-new-taxes crowd did for 12 years? They cut taxes on the rich, raised taxes on the middle class and ran the country into a ditch."
Mr. Clinton also had to defend his record on Monday night at a televised town meeting in San Diego. Lorne Fleming, a businessman, challenged him in the opening question.
 
Promise Recalled
 "President Clinton, I believe that you were elected largely on the basis of your promise of a middle-class tax cut," Mr. Fleming said. "But for the last 90 days or so, we've seen both you and the Congress transforming that promised middle-class tax cut into an unprecedented round of more taxes and new spending. There's no end in sight, and a malaise is beginning to set in our country, like the Carter era."
Mr. Clinton responded with a long defense of his efforts to cut the budget, and said he had not given up on his drive for a middle-class tax cut. "We've got to get a hold of this deficit," he said. "It's going to kill us if we don't."
At the end of the forum, Mr. Clinton sought to spread the largess by suggesting that he would do what he could to come up with $3 million to fix San Diego's rusty sewer system. "I thought you were going to ask me about the problems with the sewage treatment in Tijuana," he told a questioner. "I'm also going to try to deal with that."
Before he flew back to Washington tonight, Mr. Clinton ventured into local politics by appearing at a news conference with Michael Woo, the Democratic Mayoral candidate whom he has endorsed and who faces a tough race against Richard Riordan, a moderate Republican. Some aides had urged Mr. Clinton to stay neutral because Mr. Riordan's campaign is headed by William Wardlaw, who ran Mr. Clinton's campaign in California.
 
'I Just Like Him'
 "I endorsed Mike Woo not because I had something against his opponent -- I don't," Mr. Clinton said as Mr. Woo looked on.
"I just like him and I like him for some very good and substantive reasons," he said about Mr. Woo. "I feel a personal affinity for him because he supported me early in the race for President before the New Hampshire primary." He also said he was impressed with Mr. Woo's ideas for the city.
After days of deliberations, White House officials said, Mr. Clinton sided with advisers who said his backing Mr. Woo could strengthen his support among local Democrats and lower the prospects that Mr. Riordan would emerge as an important Republican player in Southern California politics.
"This isn't really about Woo," a White House official said. "The President can't save him. It's about Clinton. It's a political decision for the President to keep his ties with the community."
Although Mr. Clinton was the first Democrat to win California since 1964, his strategists are not fully reassured by his margin of victory in November: Mr. Clinton won the state with 46 percent of the vote, to 32 percent for President Bush and 21 for Mr. Perot.
Martin P. Wattenberg, a political scientist at the University of California at Irvine, said there was little evidence so far that Mr. Clinton's showering of attention here would do him much good. "I doubt that all the rhetoric and all the concern about California is going to get him anywhere if the economy doesn't improve," he said. "I think the electoral margin he got overstates his popularity. It was an anti-Bush vote."
But there was no letting up today as Mr. Clinton reminded voters in the South-Central district that he had visited the neighborhood long before he was a candidate for President. He pledged to push for "empowerment zones" to help rebuild troubled neighborhoods.
It was unclear whether Mr. Clinton won much good will on what aides said would be the first of many trips to the West Coast. But if anything, he showed some basketball prowess. After donning high-top athletic shoes, the President of the United States took three shots from the top of the key. One even went in.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton playing basketball at the Playground yesterday in South-Central Los Angeles. He was on a two-day visit to the West Coast. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF) ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS ; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICS (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MAYORS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TAX INCREASES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; WOO, MICHAEL (COUNCILMAN) BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



491 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold Soars to 2-Year High On Fresh Fears of Inflation

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The price of gold soared yesterday to its highest level in two years on signs that inflation was heating up again. In lively trading, gold for June delivery leaped $8 an ounce, to close at $376 on New York's Commodity Exchange. Nervous investors rushed to load up on what appears to be an increasingly precious metal.
"The mood has changed," one analyst said. "The potential for big spikes is there. We haven't seen circumstances like this for a long time." 
 On other commodity markets, grain prices surged as analysts said late-developing crops might be more vulnerable to a summer dry spell. Sugar fell, coffee prices rose, lumber jumped and oil dipped slightly.
Gold has been gaining ground since March 10, when it sank to an eight-year low of $326.90 an ounce. The advance has recently picked up additional momentum amid worry that inflation may be recurring.
News last week that consumer and producer prices jumped in April spurred inflation fear even amid a stuttering recovery from recession.
 
Gold as Classic Hedge
 Investors have traditionally bought gold in times of inflation on the theory that the metal provides protection against the declining purchasing power of currencies.
In 1980, the price of gold reached an all-time high of $850 an ounce on a combination of inflation, recession, political fears stirred by Iranian revolutionary politics and the continuing Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. By mid-1982, prices fell all the way to $300 before rebounding $200 worth in the next eight months. The gold market retreated again to the $300 level over the two years that followed, only to touch $500 once more after the stock market's October 1987 free fall.
Some say there are now more sophisticated ways of hedging against economic and political uncertainty, such as using government-bond, currency, interest-rate or oil markets.
Lately, gold has benefited from a surge in global demand for its use in making jewelry, especially in the Middle East and Asia, and a leveling of world output, which had steadily increased in the 1980's.
The prices of other precious metals were buoyed by gold's rise yesterday. The spot price of silver soared 20.3 cents, to $4.606 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange. Platinum gained $5.60, to close at $391 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; GOLD; GRAIN; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); JEWELRY (73%); BONDS (73%); COFFEE (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



492 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: 500 FOREIGN POLICE READIED FOR HAITI

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, May 18

 BODY:
After a delay of several days caused by a strongly negative initial reaction to the idea in Haiti, senior diplomats here say they are completing plans for an international police force whose deployment in Haiti they say will soon be proposed before the United Nations Security Council.
Diplomats involved in the planning of the force, which would number about 500 officers, to be drawn mostly from French-speaking countries, say the police deployment is a key element in efforts to bring about a negotiated settlement of Haiti's long political crisis. 
 President Jean-Bertrand Aristide has been in exile since being forced from office in a September 1991 military coup, and is seeking to regain power.
If an agreement from the Haitian authorities is forthcoming, as is hoped, diplomats said President Clinton's special adviser on Haitian affairs, Lawrence A. Pezzullo, and the United Nations mediator for the Haitian crisis, Dante Caputo, could visit Haiti in coming days to receive the final authorization for the deployment needed before any Security Council action.
 
Plan for New Government
 Almost immediately after an agreement on this issue, diplomats said, work would begin on the formation of a new government in Haiti and the details of a large economic recovery program being prepared for the country.
At the same time as Haiti's economy is being resuscitated, plans are afoot to engage soldiers in a large construction effort and to build from scratch a new justice system that would meet international standards.
After private consultations with many Haitian leaders outlining these ideas, diplomats said they now were hopeful of quickly obtaining a broad consensus in favor of the police force. One diplomat warned, however, that "we will not simply go back to the drawing board and start all over" if the Haitian authorities reject the idea. Instead, he suggested, a range of new penalties to supplement an ineffective hemispheric embargo would have to be imposed before securing the peaceful restoration President Aristide.
 
Resentment of Foreign Role
 When the idea of an international police force was first disclosed last week, political and military leaders across the ideological spectrum here strongly condemned the idea as a disguised form of foreign intervention that many said conjured bitter memories of the 19-year American military occupation of Haiti that ended in 1934.
To calm apprehensions like these, a senior Western diplomat said here today that the police force, which would mostly consist of Canadian, French and Caribbean officers, would only take place with "the agreement of President Aristide and all the other responsible sectors here."
Under the planned deployment the role of the international police would be to work side by side with their Haitian counterparts and, as one diplomat said today, "be a visible sign of the commitment of the international community, and, we hope, have a dampening effect on the violence."
The international police would be armed only with sidearms and would not perform law-enforcement functions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); COUPS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



493 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Upstart airlines like Kiwi and Reno are looking healthy, thanks to the demise of larger carriers and cutbacks by the majors. Also, the supply of idle airline workers and aircraft is plentiful, and the Transportation Department is protecting the new carriers from anticompetitive practices. [Page A1.]
Marriott's plan to divide into two new companies has become a David-and-Goliath legal issue over who has rights to the name to be used for one of the new entities. [D1.] 
 Hewlett-Packard reported second-quarter earnings that surpassed Wall Street's highest expectations. [D1.]
British Airways' 1992 profit fell by more than half, cut by sluggish economies and excess capacity in its many markets. [D4.]
Chemical got permission to enter the bond underwriting business and will aim to become a leader in junk bonds. [D4.]
More than half the nation's hotels turned a profit last year, an indication of a tentative recovery in the industry. [D4.]
Honda Motor profits fell 41 percent last year as revenue dropped 5.9 percent amid slumping American sales. [D4.]
Marion Merrell Dow will buy the generic drug business of Rugby-Darby, adding products to fight the drug price wars. [D4.]
Whittle Communications is again seeking entree into New York State schools for its Channel One television network. [B1.]
Robert Mondavi Winery's public stock offering may be a turning point for the wine business in the 1990's. [C1.]
 
International
Danish voters ratified the Treaty on European Union, which they had narrowly rejected last June. The endorsement gave Europe's drive for economic and political unity a lift. [A1.]
Mexico won its first investment-grade rating on non-peso denominated bonds. The Duff & Phelps action was seen as a limited vote of confidence in Mexico's economic condition. [D1.]
The president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was accused of plagiarism in a new book. [A3.]
The deputy editor of The Guardian has been named editor of The Observer, Britain's oldest Sunday newspaper. [D19.]
 
The Economy
Housing starts jumped 6.7 percent in April, a sign that the modest housing recovery is still alive. But the annual construction rate was still lagging last year's. [D2.]
The Administration gave details of its plan to create a scaled-down fund to subsidize community development banks. [D2.]
Labor Secretary Reich urged President Clinton to revamp some aspects of American trade policy. [D6.]
President Clinton's proposed tax increases are losing support among House Democrats, jeopardizing his economic plan. [A14.]
 
Business Technology
Digital is about to introduce the world's fastest personal computer, hoping users are ready to consider alternatives to machines powered by Intel chips and Microsoft software. [D5.]
 
Markets
Interest rates surged, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond jumping above 7 percent as inflation fears persisted. [D1.]
Stocks returned to their trading range of the last several weeks. The Dow fell slightly and other indexes were mixed. [D6.]
Gold soared to its highest level in nearly two years on signs that inflation was heating up. [D17.] The dollar rose. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
Allstate's public stock offer could be clouded by its plan to drop thousands of homeowners' policies in Florida. Market Place. [D1.]
Warner Brothers is promoting its "Free Willy" low-budget family film with some unusual marketing. Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (69%); 7267 (TSE) (69%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (69%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); INTEL CORP (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); DENMARK (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GENERIC DRUGS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); HOUSING STARTS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); DRUG PRICES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); WINERIES (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); TAX LAW (64%); PLAGIARISM (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



494 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats Rush To Extinguish Rebellion

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18

 BODY:
House Democratic leaders scrambled today to quash a move by three of their party's conservatives to add strict controls on Medicare and Social Security spending to President Clinton's economic package.
Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington continued to predict that the House would pass the Administration's package of $246 billion in new taxes and $97 billion in spending cuts before the end of the month. But other leaders expressed concerns that defections among the always fractious Democrats might still snowball. 
 The leaders are mainly worried that public support for President Clinton's economic policies is slipping and that a growing number of Democratic lawmakers are having trouble defending the adoption of new taxes that are to take effect before budget cuts do. But they are also concerned that satisfying the conservatives by allowing a floor vote on additional spending cuts could lead to a rebellion by the liberals.
The tax portion of the economic package sailed through the Ways and Means Committee last week on a party-line vote, and most Congressional analysts believe it will not face its first real test until it reaches the Senate Finance Committee next month.
 
Floor Vote Sought
 But three Democratic conservatives, Representatives Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, Timothy J. Penny of Minnesota and Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, have suggested that they and other conservatives may vote against the package unless the leadership allows a floor vote on spending limits for programs like Social Security that automatically entitle people to benefits. The leadership is likely to refuse their request, since such an amendment might attract Republican support and inspire a revolt by liberals.
The three conservatives have 20 to 40 allies, but their effort to make significant changes in the budget earlier this year fell flat. They have occasionally forced the leadership's hand, as when they successfully threatened to join the Republicans in September to kill a bill to finance Government operations if the Speaker did not allow a floor vote on a modified line-item veto bill.
Howard Pastor, the chief White House lobbyist, tried to ease friction in the House by meeting today with more than 50 moderate and conservative Democratic members.
At the meeting, some lawmakers complained that the Administration was doing a poor job of selling its package, and others expressed criticism that the package was top heavy with taxes.
"We're giving him an earful of what we're hearing from our constituents," said David Mann, of Ohio.
"Negative feelings are running pretty high," Mr. Penny said in an interview today. "There is real concern about voting for a tax bill unless we can guarantee that the deficit will steadily decline."
Mr. Penny said that without capping spending on programs like Social Security and Medicare at the amounts outlined in the five-year budget resolution passed this year, "we run the risk of them eating up the new taxes."
Mr. Foley and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, dispatched their whips to the floor in the afternoon to take a count of how many members were following the three conservative Democrats. In addition, White House officials said today that Mr. Clinton would go to the Capitol on Wednesday to confer with the Democratic caucus.
Even with unified opposition of House Republicans, the Democrats can afford to lose up to 40 or so of their 257 votes and still pass the economic program.
Representative Mike Synar, a Democratic whip from Oklahoma, said the conservatives were merely posturing to gain political cover back home before ultimately supporting the President's economic plan. "This is the typical food fight that goes on in this place," he said.
But other leaders expressed concern. At a leadership meeting of Senate and House Democrats this morning, they noted that opposition to the energy tax was growing because consumers were worried that utility bills would rise.
"The problems are mounting," said Representative Bill Richardson of New Mexico. "I was in New Mexico this weekend, and I got hit unmercifully by the perception that we are raising taxes."
More problems were brewing among liberals, particularly among members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who are still angry about the defeat of the $19 billion stimulus package.
Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, warned that if Mr. Foley bent to the pressure of the conservatives, liberals might revolt.
"I don't blame Stenholm and McCurdy for raising their skirts," he said, "but if they are going to hold the Democratic Party and the President hostage, then we, too, have to be heard."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Pastor, the chief White House lobbyist, tried to ease friction in the House by meeting with more than 50 moderate and conservative Democratic members for more than two hours on Capitol Hill. Among them was Representative Dave McCurdy, left. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; MCCURDY, DAVID (REPR); PENNY, TIMOTHY J (REPR); STENHOLM, CHARLES W (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



495 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Russian Official Insists Serbia Still Backs Vance-Owen Peace Plan

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, May 18

 BODY:
Insisting that the President of Serbia still backed the international peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina despite its rejection by Bosnian Serbs, Russia's Foreign Minister said today that he hoped the United States would yet agree to a Security Council meeting to carry out the plan.
The Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, met with President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia here after seeing the Croatian President, Franjo Tudjman, in the Adriatic resort of Split. Mr. Kozyrev said that the Croatian leader agreed to accept an international monitoring force along the Croatian-Bosnian border. 
 Mr. Milosevic earlier this month renewed an offer to accept an international group of monitors along the Serbian-Bosnian border to verify his claim that Serbia is not supplying the Bosnian Serbs who are fighting Muslim-led Bosnian Government forces there. So far, neither Russia nor the United States has agreed to provide troops for such a monitoring force.
Asked today whether the Serbian President stood by the offer to accept such a monitoring force, Mr. Kozyrev said: "We discussed the idea but they have their own plan of decision-making. President Milosevic firmly reiterated his decision not to supply anything but humanitarian aid and medicine to the Bosnian Serbs as long as they object to the peace plan."
After the 90-minute meeting, Mr. Milosevic told the Government-controlled television that the Russian view of the crisis was "more objective" than those expressed by some Western leaders who called for outside military intervention to stop the fighting. Russia has historic ties with the Serbs.
"Mr. Kozyrev shares the opinion that the use of force will only deepen the crisis," the Serbian President said.
There was considerable interest here in what the Russians were up to with their growing diplomatic activity in the Balkans. The Russian Deputy Defense Minister, Boris V. Gromov, came with Mr. Kozyrev. He conferred with Dobrica Cosic, president of the Yugoslav federation of Serbia and Montenegro before the two Russian ministers talked with the real power here, President Milosevic of Serbia.
There was also considerable confusion about just what the American position was following the announcement Monday that Secretary of State Warren Christopher would not attend a Security Council meeting of foreign ministers called for Friday to discuss the peace plan. The Friday meeting was canceled in the face of the American refusal to attend, saying it could not support pushing ahead with a peace plan that the Bosnian Serbs rejected in the referendum.
Mr. Kozyrev belittled the referendum, saying it had been held in the middle of a war and could not be allowed to wreck the results of negotiations.
"We are in close and constant touch with Christopher and other members of the Security Council," Mr. Kozyrev said today. The Russian said he expected to go to Washington later this week for further discussions.
Although the United States failed to persuade its European allies on a campaign that could include air strikes against Bosnian Serb military targets while lifting the arms embargo on the Muslim-led Bosnian Government forces, the threat of Western military action apparently did have an effect on the Serb leaders in Belgrade who are seeking to have international economic sanctions lifted.
Today in Belgrade, where the sanctions and the effects of war have now brought the cost of a cup of coffee to well over a hundred thousand dinars, every leader Mr. Kozyrev spoke to swore allegiance to the peace plan.
"Vance-Owen is not the end of the road, but a mechanism to reach peace," the Russian Foreign Minister said. "I am encouraging the United States not to lose the momentum created by the Vance-Owen plan being approved by everyone, including Mr. Milosevic."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Council Session Canceled
 UNITED NATIONS, May 18 (Special to The New York Times) -- Russia has postponed its attempt to convene a meeting of the Security Council at the Foreign Minister level on Friday to discuss the war in Bosnia.
The reason given for the postponement was to allow the Foreign Ministers to continue their "intensive consultations" on the Balkans crisis, but the meeting was effectively canceled when the United States declined to attend to discuss a peace plan that one side had already rejected.
The Security Council now plans to vote later this week on sending an international force to monitor Serbia's border with Bosnia to make sure President Milosevic of Serbia is really cutting off military supplies to the Serb nationalists in Bosnia, as he has vowed to do.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Muslim-Croatian Accord
 MEDJUGORJE, Bosnia and Herzegovina, May 18 (Special to The New York Times) -- After two months of bitter fighting and two stillborn peace accords, Bosnian Croat and Muslim leaders agreed today to begin carrying out a United Nations peace plan in parts of this war-torn republic.
"Those people, who have signed the peace plan, are now going to carry it forward in those areas of the country which come under their main control," said Lord Owen, the European Community's mediator on the Balkans and the co-author of the international peace plan with Cyrus R. Vance, the former United Nations envoy.
The leaders of Bosnia's Croats and Muslims signed the peace plan earlier this year. The Bosnian Serbs, whose forces now control 70 percent of Bosnian territory, rejected the plan in a referendum last weekend.
Lord Owen said the peace plan would be put into effect starting in provinces centered around the towns of Mostar, Travnik and Zenica, with the Muslims and Croats allocated seats in provisional governments according to the regions' ethnic population and vacant seats left for the Bosnian Serbs.
Alija Izetbegovic, the Bosnian Muslim leader, will remain as president under the accord signed today. Bosnia's new prime minister-designate will be Jadranko Prljic, present head of the main Croatian militia in Bosnia.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Croatian-Serbian Talks
 ZAGREB, Croatia, May 18 (Special to The New York Times) -- With some help from the Russians, the United Nations reconvened talks today between rival sides in what some diplomats here now describe as the Balkans' "forgotten war," the battle between Croats and Croatian Serbs over the rugged Croatian hinterland.
In a meeting in the town of Topusko, inside Serbian-controlled Croatia, a delegation of Croats and Croatian Serbs met for more than six hours and agreed to recommend that military authorities declare a cease-fire as of noon Thursday. They also promised to meet next week in Zagreb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) ; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; RUSSIA; BELGRADE (YUGOSLAVIA); BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ; CROATIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA ; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); CIVIL WAR (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); REFERENDUMS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) ; TUDJMAN, FRANJO (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



496 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
A Mexican Non-Peso Bond Is Rated Investment Grade

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 18

 BODY:
Signaling both confidence in the short-term ability of Mexico to pay its debt, and the lengths to which its Government will go to raise its rank in the financial world, Mexico for the first time won an investment-grade rating on non-peso denominated bonds.
But the rating does not come from one of the two best-known American ratings companies, and its significance is expected to be limited. 
 The rating, scheduled to be announced on Wednesday, comes from Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Company.
The Chicago company has given a three-year Mexican Government offering of about $85 million worth of yen-denominated notes a preliminary rating of BBB, its next-to-lowest investment-grade rating. Previously, all non-peso issues have been given speculative ratings that reflected a the view that there was a high degree of risk as to whether Mexico could repay the money on schedule.
In Latin America, Chile is the only nation with an investment-grade rating from a major company, Standard & Poor's. Although Mexico's peso-denominated offerings usually receive investment-grade ratings because the Government can print pesos, its hard-currency issues have never been considered so safe.
"If we were going to say that Mexico is investment grade, end of discussion, that would be going out on a limb," said Daniel J. Donoghue, senior vice president of Duff & Phelps. "What we're saying is that we have every degree of confidence that in three years they will have no problem in paying off this debt issue."
While Duff & Phelps did have time to consider Monday's announcement that the Mexican Government is planning to to make the Mexican central bank autonomous, the rating rationale was based on Mexican efforts to control inflation and reduce the nation's foreign debt.
But the most important factor, Mr. Donoghue said, was the comparatively short, three-year maturity of the issue rather than the more standard 10 years. The notes will come due during the early stages during the term of Mexico's next president, who will succeed President Carlos Salinas de Gortari in December 1994.
While the rating marks what Mexican finance officials hope would become a benchmark, it is likely to be overlooked by some investors because Duff & Phelps is a relative newcomer to the foreign debt market, having customarily focused on corporations, especially utilities. Only in the last year has it rated sovereign debt -- the way any government pays off its debt.
The two major American rating services -- Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's -- are not expected to rate the new yen notes until several weeks after they are issued, in keeping with their practice. The notes may be issued next month.
Ratings have become a sensitive issue for developing nations, who say that the two major services are too conservative. Duff & Phelps has entered the field with a reputation for being more open to emerging markets, and for being willing to rate medium-term issues before the deals are actually completed.
Analysts familiar with foreign debt said that it seemed the Mexican Government had decided to shop for the best rating it could get. And they said, by issuing the notes in yen -- for the first time since 1978 -- Mexico played down the potential negative effects of having used a comparatively unknown rating service.
Ministry of Finance officials denied that they had shopped for the rating. , "They came to us," one official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DCR (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: DUFF & PHELPS CREDIT RATING CO FITCH RATINGS LTD (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUFF & PHELPS CREDIT RATING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; JAPAN MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; CURRENCY; FINANCES BONDS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SOVEREIGN RISK (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INFLATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



497 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii Health Care Is Called a Model for U.S.

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, May 18

 BODY:
Hawaii's universal health-care system, which insures 96.5 percent of the state's residents and costs less than health care in other states and Canada, could serve as a national model, health officials from Hawaii say in a new report.
The report also says that requiring employers to provide insurance for employees who work at least 20 hours a week has not bankrupted small businesses, as some feared when the plan went into effect 19 years ago. 
 "In fact, some indirect indicators suggest that the effect may be positive," said the report, to be published on Wednesday in The Journal of the American Medical Association.
Unemployment since 1974 has markedly declined in Hawaii, where 97 percent of businesses have fewer than 100 workers, the report said. By 1990, new-business start-ups per capita had reached the third highest rate in the nation, it said.
 
Near Top in Health Status
 Only 3.5 percent of Hawaii's 1.1 million residents lacked health insurance in 1989, compared with 11.7 percent who lacked hospital coverage in 1971 and 17.2 percent who lacked physician coverage then, the report said.
Hawaiians rank at or near the top in health status compared with other Americans, the health officials said.
"We believe a considerable amount of this success is attributable to direct and indirect effects of Hawaii's employer mandate," they said, adding that the state's approach receive serious attention as a task force headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton considers health-care changes.
Hawaii's health-care system emphasizes prevention and early treatment. Without rationing or a ceiling on costs, Hawaiians are hospitalized only 90 percent as often as other Americans, undergo surgery only 61 percent as often and visit emergency rooms only 48 percent as often, the report said.
 
Comparing Heat-Care Costs
 Health-care costs, including government expenses for Medicare and Medicaid, were only 7.8 percent of the gross state product in Hawaii, compared with 11.2 percent of the gross national product for the United States, a 1992 study found. The figure was 8.6 percent in Canada, 9 percent in Sweden, 8.5 percent in the Netherlands and 8.2 percent in Germany, the report said.
The health officials dismissed the argument that Hawaii was a special case because of its mild climate and a healthy genetic stock of Asians and Pacific Islanders. Rather, they said, Caucasians have the best relative health among racial groups, and the state's reduced health-care expenses from lack of cold weather are offset by higher rates of skin cancer and ocean injuries.
Because Hawaii is a gateway for immigration from Asia and the Pacific islands, it has the nation's second highest rate of tuberculosis and ranks among the top 10 states in new AIDS infections, the officials said.
Hawaii is seeking Federal approval to combine its Medicaid and state insurance programs for those who do not qualify under Medicaid or the employer mandate. Gov. John Waihee 3d, a Democrat, hopes that will save even more.
But Walter Zelman, an adviser to the Clinton Administration's task force on health care, said in a telephone interview from Washington that Hawaii's system was not directly applicable to other states.
Hawaii is in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, he noted, so businesses that dislike its laws cannot easily move. And Hawaii's two biggest insurers are not-for-profit companies, so the state is free of some "predatory" practices found elsewhere, he said.
"There's a lot to be learned from Hawaii," Mr. Zelman added, "but it may not provide the whole answer."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Washington State Plan Enacted
 SEATTLE, May 18 (AP) -- Mrs. Clinton listened in via satellite today as Gov. Mike Lowry of Washington signed a state health-care law that contains the basic elements that she said "mirror essential elements of the national package" now being drafted.
It includes a uniform benefits plan, increased access to health care, cost controls and a partnership of employers, insurers and government. A centerpiece of the new law is the requirement that employers contribute at least half of their workers' premiums.
A state commission will regulate the health-care industry like a utility, requiring insurers and providers to compete for pools of patients.
New taxes on the health-care industry, tobacco and alcohol will subsidize coverage, first for about 150,000 people without insurance and later for thousands more as the new taxes grow to an expected $500 million a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%); SWEDEN (79%); NETHERLANDS (76%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII; CANADA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%); SWEDEN (79%); NETHERLANDS (76%); GERMANY (76%); HAWAII, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICAID (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); TUBERCULOSIS (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (63%); MEDICARE (58%); STARTUPS (54%); SKIN CANCER (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ISLANDS & REEFS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



498 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bond Yield Above 7%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Interest rates surged yesterday, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond jumping above 7 percent. As a result, many investors may switch their focus to how much higher interest rates might go rather than how much lower.
While 7 percent itself is not an important number economically, it can be seen as the psychological threshold between a market rally and a selloff, especially given the new concerns about inflation, worries about the fate of President Clinton's economic program and guessing over whether the Federal Reserve will now move to raise short-term interest rates to combat renewed inflation. 
 Inflationary concerns were increased, traders said, by a sharp rise in the price of gold, which jumped $8 an ounce yesterday and is up about $40 since April. [Page D17.]
 
Panic With 'Capital P'
 "The name of the game today was panic with a capital P," said Jay Goldinger, a bond trader at Capital Insight in Los Angeles. "The problem with the market is that the gold rally has hit the market hard, and retail buyers are scared." A separate jump in the Commodity Research Bureau index of commodities, which is another inflation barometer, added to the selling in the bond market, forcing yields higher.
Treasury prices also came under pressure from the hangover from last week's $35 billion Treasury auction. The quarterly auction was disrupted by disturbing reports on April inflation and left dealers with a lot of debt securities that they may not have wanted. One way to get rid of these securities was to cut prices.
In trading yesterday, the price of the 7 1/8 percent 30-year bond maturing in February 2023 was off 22/32 , to 10111/32 , as the yield jumped to 7.02 percent from 6.96 percent. Prices fell and yields rose on Treasury notes as well, but not as sharply.
"I think the markets are very emotional," said William Dudley, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company. He said the bond market had overreacted to the surprisingly sharp increase in both consumer and producer prices for April and the speculation that immediately followed on whether the Federal Reserve, instead of easing interest rates to help a sluggish economy, might have to raise them.
The Fed's policy-making committee met yesterday in Washington and added to the apprehension in the market.
"I think we go another month, and then we get better inflation news and the fear of Fed tightening will go away," Mr. Dudley said. He said Goldman still thought the economy was weak, that there was not any fundamental inflationary pressures and that the yield on the long bond would fall through 6.5 percent.
Mr. Goldinger also argued that the market was overreacting. "There is a fear of inflation, but its mostly an anticipatory fear. The economy is not different than it was a month ago.
"I think yields are going to steady here," he added, "There is no question that sentiment is bearish. Can yields go to 7.10 percent? Sure they can. But you can't get carried away because the economic fundamentals have not changed."
 
The End of the Rally
 Mr. Goldinger reflects a growing consensus that the bond market rally of 1993 may be over for now but that if it is, it does not mean that interest rates are going to go much higher.
The main reason for this view is that the economy is still weak -- it grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter -- and will not create a lot of inflationary pressures. The other factor is that even if inflation winds up higher than last year's 2.9 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index, most anlaysts do not expect it to be much higher.
"If you don't reinforce the market fears quickly, the market is going to have to retrace some, and yields will have to come back down," Mr. Goldinger said.
The last time the bond yield rose above 7 percent was on Friday, April 2, at 7.05 percent, and Monday, April 5, at 7.02 percent. After that jump in rates, which was also caused by an inflation scare, yields dropped again after the March inflation reports turned out to be surprisingly low.
 
New York Bonds
 Yesterday was not the best day for a bond sale, but New York City still sold $917 million of bonds, including the first sale ever by a major city of bonds denominated in Japanese yen.
As Treasury market yields rose in the day, the city and its underwriters, lead by Bear, Stearns & Company, had to cut prices and push up yields on the longer-term maturities by as much as 10 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
"We ended up having to cheapen the bonds a little bit, but we were pleased with the deal," said Michael Geffrard, director of public finance for the city.
The yen sale totaled just more than $200 million. The bonds were sold to institutional investors in Japan, including insurance companies and trust banks. For New York City, the idea of selling bonds abroad is one type of innovation that is being used more often in local financing to cut interest costs. According to Elizabeth Holtzman, the New York City Comptroller, the lower interest rates the city was able to pay in Japan will enable it to save about $3.8 million over 10 years.
The sale also included popular bonds that sell at a deep discount to the face value so small investors can afford them. For example, the bonds maturing in 2012 sold for $305 for a bond that will pay $1,000 at maturity.
The rates on the $481 million in tax-exempt fixed-rate general obligation bonds ranged from 3.20 percent in 1994 and 5.70 percent in 2004 to 6.25 percent in 2015 and 6.25 percent in 2021. The increases in yields ranged from 5 basis points in 2011, to 6.15 percent, and 10 basis points in 2016, to 6.25 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities in percent. (Source: Technical Data) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



499 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Interest-Rate Concerns Push Dow Lower by 5.54 Points

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Chilled by the uncertainty of future interest rates, stock market investors returned yesterday to the trading range that has characterized the market for the last several weeks.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell slightly, while other major indexes were mixed in relatively heavy trading. 
 Meanwhile, gold and gold stocks surged yesterday. Gold for June delivery jumped $8, to $376 an ounce, while Echo Bay Mines, the most active stock on the American Stock Exchange, climbed 1 1/4, to 12 1/8.
The most active stock of the day was Spectrum Information Technologies, with volume of 11.5 million shares in Nasdaq trading. It rose 1 17/32 to 9 1/32 , its sixth winning session in a row. The tiny company recently signed a licensing agreement for wireless data transfer technology with A.T.& T., and other major companies are signing up as well.
The Dow industrials closed down 5.54 points, to 3,444.39, after dropping more than 24 points at midafternoon.
Meanwhile, the Dow Jones transportation average, which fell 15.91 points on Monday, lost another 7.66 points, closing at 1,560.00.
But the Nasdaq composite index, made up mainly of smaller-capitalization and high-technology stocks, closed up 2.82 points, to 680.78. The American Stock Exchange market value index closed up 0.76, to 428.22.
Among other indexes, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index closed down 0.05, to 243.53 points. Losing stocks on the Big Board outnumbered winners by 1,082 to 833. The Standard & Poor's 500 closed down 0.05, to 440.32 points.
In the last four sessions, the Dow Jones industrial average has closed around 3,450, down from the May 12 peak of more than 3,480. For the same period, closes for the Standard & Poor's 500 have hugged a range of around 440.
On Thursday, following two days of disturbing inflation reports, stocks fell sharply as traders focused on what the Federal Reserve Board's Open Market Committee would do on interest rates. The committee met yesterday and its intentions will become known within the next few weeks, either through guesswork from public documents or news leaks.
A report on the financial cable television channel CNBC yesterday morning before the opening bell helped to sharpen the market's anxiety. Three Fed governors, according to CNBC, advocate higher interest rates to fight inflation. The move would hurt stocks as well as bonds, and, by extension, raise business's borrowing and operating costs.
The decline in the Dow was across the board, with a startling 21 out of 30 index stocks declining in price. The leading decliner in the Dow was General Electric, down 1 3/8, to 92 1/4, on no discernible news.
Royal Dutch Petroleum, which owns 60 percent of the Royal Dutch/ Shell Group, topped the most-active list on the Big Board with 11.13 million shares. It closed down 5/8, to 89 7/8, partly on news that Nederlandse Gasunie, a natural-gas distributor of which Shell is a part-owner, expects lower sales.
Hewlett-Packard, the third-most- active stock on the Big Board, closed up 5 1/8, to 84 3/4, on surprisingly strong earnings. Tucson Electric Power, the second-most-active, was up 1/8, to 3 1/2, on no discernible news, but it reported a narrower quarterly loss last week.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (61%); RDSA (AMS) (61%); RDS.B (NYSE) (61%); RDS.A (NYSE) (61%); KGC (NYSE) (58%); K (TSX) (58%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (61%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (61%); KINROSS GOLD CORP (58%); SITI SITES.COM INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DATA TRANSMISSION (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



500 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: Newest Airlines Find Conditions Ripe to Succeed

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
In the life cycle of airlines, the season is changing from winter to spring. After a decade that saw far more airline deaths than births, 15 new airlines, including Kiwi International and Reno Air, have begun flying.
Conditions are fertile for the upstarts largely because of the demise of Pan American World Airways, Eastern Airlines and Midway, among others, and cutbacks by majors like American, Delta and United. Laid-off pilots, mechanics and flight attendants are eager to get back to work -- even at a fraction of their former pay. Planes sitting idle in the Arizona desert can be leased cheaply, underused hubs and routes are available and passengers are eager to buy cut-rate tickets.
 
New Federal Policy
 And importantly, Secretary of Transportation Federico F. Pena has warned the industry that anticompetitive practices will not be tolerated, and his department has been working with the Justice Department to make sure that new carriers -- in addition to the 15 already flying, 11 more are planned -- are not knocked out before they have a chance. 
 The new airlines, which account for less than 2 percent of industry capacity, are tiny compared with the major carriers. American and Delta, for example, have 400 to 500 aircraft apiece. In contrast, Kiwi flies six Boeing 727's to Atlanta, Chicago and Orlando from Newark; Reno Air has 10 McDonnell Douglas MD-80 planes, which it operates from Reno to San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, Ore., and Seattle, and most of the upstarts are even smaller.
New carriers had received almost no protection from the Reagan and Bush Administrations, and hundreds went out of business, leaving entrepreneurs and investors wary of new proposals. The Clinton Administration takes a different view.
"While we will do whatever we can to support our existing carriers," Mr. Pena said, "so too will we do whatever we can to make sure fledgling carriers have a fair shot."
The new carriers have already forced down fares in selected markets by setting low rates that the majors feel compelled to match, even though they generally make available only a small and controlled number of seats at the lower prices and impose restrictions on the unprofitable tickets.
Kiwi International Airlines, for example, charges $119 one way for its three daily flights between Newark and Chicago. United, American and Continental Airlines have matched the fare for a limited number of seats on their 30 daily flights, on which the full one-way coach fare was $340 before Kiwi entered the market. The majors' fare from La Guardia to Chicago is still $365 one way.
 
Going for the Niches
 The new carriers' managers, painfully aware of new airlines' high failure rates, are wary about taking on the large carriers in major markets, despite Secretary Pena's vow to protect them.
Most plan to remain niche players for now, stepping in where there is a vacuum the way Reno Air did, or keeping a low profile like Kiwi, which limits the number of its flights.
"The only defense against the big guys was to stay below their radar screen," said Robert Iverson, president and chief executive of Kiwi, in an interview in his office overlooking a runway at Newark International Airport. "Now we don't have to worry about that so much," with Mr. Pena's protection, he said. Still, he is not stepping up Kiwi's expansion.
Nevertheless, the potential for the new carriers -- phoenixes that have risen from the ashes of airline deregulation -- could be promising.
One reason is that American and United, for example, plan to pull back from many of their short-haul markets, creating a need for other carriers to provide connecting flights, and even to sell off new hubs, a move American is considering at Raleigh and Durham, N.C.
 
New Cooperation Foreseen
 "Instead of the big guys trying to kill the small guys, we will see the big guys working with the small guys," said Ray Neidl, an airline analyst for Furman Selz in New York.
The upstarts include five with scheduled passenger service. In addition to Kiwi and Reno, they are: Morris Air, which feeds Delta routes from a Salt Lake City hub; Private Jet, which offers unrestricted $99 flights from Atlanta to Miami and Chicago, and Ultrair, a Houston-based carrier that offers first-class amenities at coach rates. Another five are charter operators, and five more are cargo carriers.
Patrick Murphy, an Acting Assistant Secretary of Transportation, said that three more carriers had been given authority to operate, and eight more were seeking clearance.
"There has been increased interest by venture capitalists in starting and expanding new entrant airlines," Mr. Murphy said. Investment bankers and financiers are also looking more favorably on the high-risk ventures.
Getting capital is the biggest hurdle for most upstarts. New carriers must fly at huge losses until they build up a following.
Reno Air used Paradise Valley Securities, a small regional firm, as an underwriter and was able to raise $5.8 million in cash from the public and $5.1 million by selling convertible notes.
The airline, which has grown faster than it expected, generated about $2 million in cash last year and now has enough to finance its growth for the year. It is even getting unsolicited offers of money, Jeff Erikson, Reno's president, said.
 
Re-emergence of Lorenzo
 The boom climate has attracted some familiar, if controversial, figures. Frank Lorenzo, whose bitter battles with the airline pilots' and machinists' unions were part of the undoing of Eastern Airlines, is seeking to get a certificate from the Department of Transportation to set up Friendship Airlines.
The department has turned the certification over for a review by an administrative judge, making it uncertain that Mr. Lorenzo will get his venture off the ground.
In another case, the department told Barry Michaels, a former Los Angeles businessman who is a founder of Family Airlines, that his airline would not be allowed to fly unless he and his wife severed their ties to the carrier.
Mr. Michaels, who served several months in an Arizona Federal prison after conviction for mail fraud, recently agreed to give up control, enabling about 100 pilots who invested $3 million to continue to seek certification.
For those who do pass muster, conditions have not been so favorable since deregulation began in 1979. Leasing rates for planes are about half what they were two years ago. Mr. Erikson said that in some cases the lessors had put up as much as $1 million to convert some of their idle MD-80's, on which they were previously paying storage.
 
Cheap and Willing Labor
 Thousands of pilots, flight attendants and mechanics who lost their jobs when Eastern, Pan Am and Midway went out of business are willing not only to begin new careers at much lower salaries, but also to donate somew of their time during the start-up phase.
Their incentive to do so is particularly strong at Kiwi. The airline's capital came mainly from investments of at least $50,000 each from more than 100 pilots. The New Jersey Economic Development Authority provided $1.6 million in loan guarantees. The carrier, which is owned and operated by its 420 employees, most of whom came from one of the liquidated carriers, is considering a stock offering.
"We chose to take experience at every level we could, so that's why we have reservation agents with 25 years experience," said Codie Bell, Kiwi's chief financial officer. "Eastern had 1,800 reservation agents in New York, and we needed 25. So we took the best 25 people."
The carrier also had its pick of senior managers and turned to a group of former senior Pan Am executives for the accounting staff.
The lack of an adversarial relationship between labor and management, which is the norm at the major carriers, is a major advantage for Kiwi, giving the airline great flexibility in using its work force.
Pilots gladly help load bags, visit travel agents to sell the airline or pitch in to help flight attendants.
Some senior pilots, who once earned more than $100,000 a year, are now flying for $48,000 a year at Kiwi, giving the carrier a low operating cost of about 9 cents a seat-mile, in contrast to major carriers, which range from 12 cents to 15 cents a mile, and it is expected to be a long time -- if ever -- until the new carriers reach that level.
Kiwi pays $40,000 to $150,000 a month to lease its 727-200 planes. They were formerly flown by Lufthansa, which is known for quality maintenance.
Kiwi's fares are $99 to $139 one way without restrictions, and it offers amenities like fresh salads and custom-blended coffee.
 
Recollections of People Express
 Both Kiwi and Reno, now almost a year old, have come through the hazardous start-up phase and are now reaching the break-even stage.
The danger for start-up carriers comes at this phase. If they are tempted to abandon their niche strategy and expand into major markets, taking on big carriers directly, they could be wiped out. People Express, for example, failed when it tried to become a major national carrier.
Before Mr. Pena's crucial intervention, the new carriers' officers and staffs lived in peril, knowing that the major carriers could knock them out of the market if they wanted to, simply by putting in many more frequent flights at the same fares without limits on the seats.
Kiwi executives said -- and Transportation Department officials confirmed -- that the department had begun a quiet investigation to see if Kiwi's huge rival, Continental Airlines, had set fares below the levels at which it could make money to drive Kiwi out of Newark and elsewhere.
Mr. Pena also warned Northwest Airlines not to try to knock out Reno Air's entry into Minneapolis, its major hub, by putting in jumbo aircraft. But Reno announced this week it would abandon Minneapolis and Kansas City service for lack of traffic.
Under the Reagan and Bush Administrations, Mr. Erikson recalled, Section 441 of the aviation code, which is aimed at preventing carriers from engaging in predatory pricing, was largely ignored.
One of the original main goals of deregulation was to open entry for new competitors, which would challenge the large carriers, bringing down fares and providing greater choices for travelers.
Mr. Erikson said that under the last two Administrations that section "was absolutely gutted because it was not enforced." Now Secretary Pena's action, he said, "is a clear signal that the Government has the will that the new entrants can play with the big guys."


GRAPHIC: Starting an airline is a tricky proposition. Below is a broad outline of the major hurdles. But be prepared to attend to a thousand other details ranging from printing operating manuals to obtaining liquor licenses if you plan to serve drinks on board. Oh, and don't forget to develop a marketing strategy.
 
You'll Need: Permission
 
Pointers: The Department of Transporation must certify that you are fit to operate an airline. The Federal Aviation Administration wants to make sure you will meet saftety standards. The Government also want proof that the airline is not under foreign control. The department can be tough; It is holding up Frank Lorenzo's permission to start Friendship Airlines while is reviews his record at Eastern and Continental.
 
You'll Need: Money - lots of it
 
Pointers: Don't count on old-line venture capital firms to pull out their check-books, nor on Wall Street to take you public. Too many high-flying airlines have left investors holding the bag. Entrepreneurs are turning to sources of capital that barely existed years ago: suppliers of labor and aircraft who have strong economic incentives to see new airlines come on stream. Government agencies may also lend a hand.
 
You'll Need: Airplanes
 
Pointers: You can buy one for as little as $800,000, but nearly everyone leases planes at first. Expect to pay from $40,000 to $150,000 a month for each plane, 20 percent less than two years ago. Whether you buy or lease, you pay more for a plane that is equpped to fly over water, and more for one formerly owned by Lufthansa, the airline equivalent of the little old lady from Pasadena, than one that belonged to, say, Eastern.
 
You'll Need: A work force
 
Pointers: The unions that represented Pan American, Midway and Eastern employees can put you in touch with hundreds of experienced people who were left out of work when those airlines stoped flying. All 25 of Kiwi's reservation agents hail from Eastern while its accountants come from Pan Am. Many of Reno Air's people are Midway alumni. (pg. D5)
Chart: "So You Want to Start an Airline"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (58%); KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES INC (58%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); BOEING CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; FARES AIRLINES (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); AIR FARES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS; PENA, FEDERICO F (SEC) RONALD REAGAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



501 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Starts Rose 6.7% in April

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Home building perked up in April, particularly in the Northeast. It was another sign that the economy has regained some momentum after a harsh winter and that the modest housing recovery is still alive.
But despite the lowest mortgage rates in nearly two decades, nobody is counting on another 1980's-style housing boom. 
 Housing starts jumped 6.7 percent in April, the biggest monthly gain since August, after dropping 3.6 percent in March, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. The April pace -- 1.2 million at an annual rate -- was a shade above last year's average, but still shy of the 1.3 million pace of December, which economists hope will be the average for 1993.
 
'Signs of Improvement'
 "Things are still pretty miserable, but we're starting to see signs of improvement, especially in Texas," said Ronald Foell, president of Standard Pacific, a big home builder based in Costa Mesa, Calif.
"It's a step in the right direction," said David Lereah, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington.
Builders started new projects at a faster pace everywhere except the Midwest, where starts were flat. Starts zoomed 22.6 percent in the Northeast, 9.5 percent in the South and 3.4 percent in the West.
Mr. Foell noted that sales of land by the Resolution Trust Corporation, which is disposing of assets from failed savings and loans, had helped bolster home building. "Some builders have been able to buy parcels at very low prices and in turn to offer homes at attractive values," he said.
 
New Permits Are Up
 In Texas, where the residential real estate market is in pretty good shape, Mr. Foell said Standard Pacific had 15 new projects -- mostly in Houston, Dallas and Austin -- and, with its sales backlog growing, was trying to start more. Developments range from several dozen to several hundred new homes.
The issuance of building permits, a good indicator of future construction, bounced up 5.8 percent in April, the largest monthly amount in nearly a year and a half, the Commerce Department said.
Other signs of future housing activity were also fairly good.
Though inflation jitters have lately nudged interest rates higher, mortgages are still close to a 19-year low, around 7.5 percent for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, making houses more affordable than at any time since the early 1970's.
The volume of mortgage applications, a weekly survey by the Mortgage Bankers Association shows, remains very strong by historical standards -- three times higher than in the recession.
And job growth, though still very modest, has been better in the last six months than in the first year and a half of the economic recovery.
Nonetheless, most developers and housing experts expect home building to remain more subdued in the next few years than in the boom years of the 1980's expansion.
For good reason, says Mark Lasky, a housing economist at DRI/McGraw Hill in Lexington, Mass. Americans are forming fewer new households. Because of the "baby bust" that began in the mid-1960's, the number of Americans in the prime household-forming ages of 25 to 35 is shrinking.
There is also less bottled-up demand for homes now than in the wake of the 1981-82 recession, when mortgage rates soared above 16 percent in the Federal Reserve's battle against double-digit inflation.
"People weren't squeezed out of the market by high rates," Mr. Lasky said of the recent downturn.
 
Less Government Help
 Potential home buyers are also getting less help from Washington these days. Most of the once-generous tax incentives that helped a boom in condominiums and rental apartments were abolished by the Tax Reform Act of 1986. And the middle class will not be getting an income tax cut like the one Ronald Reagan delivered in 1981.
But builders of single-family homes still have reason for optimism. The demographic trend that is slowing household formation is likely to most hurt builders of rental apartments and starter homes, not those who cater to the more middle-age move-up market, which is expanding as members of the "baby boom" generation head into their 40's and 50's.
DRI/McGraw Hill's long-term projections call for housing starts to average just more than 1.3 million a year the next 10 years, versus 1.7 million a year in the 1983-88 boom. But the forecasting firm expects slightly more single-family starts, 1.1 million a year for the next 10 years, compared with a million a year the last 10 years.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows new private housing started and permits authorized during the month from Nov. '91-April '93. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SPF (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT OPERATIVE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); DALLAS, TX, USA (71%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT STANDARD PACIFIC CORP (57%); STANDARD PACIFIC CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); DALLAS, TX, USA (71%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS HOUSING STARTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA DAVID LEREAH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



502 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up on Danish Vote And Higher Rates in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most major currencies yesterday, strengthened by higher United States interest rates and Danish voters' approval of the European unity treaty.
Underlying the dollar's strength was growing sentiment that interest rates in the United States were poised to rise and foreign rates were headed lower. Higher domestic rates tend to make a nation's currency more attractive to investors. 
 That view was supported yesterday by two events: Denmark's approval of the treaty on closer political and economic ties among the 12 nations of the European Community, and a jump in the yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond to above the key 7 percent level.
 
Stocked Up on Marks
 Some traders had bought German marks Monday on lingering fears that a Danish "no" vote could scuttle plans for political and economic unity, easing pressure on Germany to cut its currently high interest rates.
But those who had stocked up on marks began selling on expectations of the Danish approval, which came during afternoon trading in New York.
The general perception was that the approval might pave the way for lower interest rates in Europe, said Michael Malpede, senior analyst at Refco Group Ltd. in Chicago.
In European trading, the dollar broke through a key psychological level of 1.6210 German marks to close at 1.6240 marks, up from 1.6165 late Monday. By 4 P.M. in New York, the dollar was worth 1.62425 German marks, up from 1.6130.
Traders also sold Swiss francs on sentiment that Switzerland might cut its interest rates again, analysts said.
But the pound posted smaller losses against the dollar because Britain is keeping interest rates high compared with other European nations, said John Nelson, director of foreign exchange at Barclays Bank P.L.C.
The dollar continued to trade in a range against the Japanese yen, which was sidelined by the action among European currencies. In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 111.28 yen, up 0.51 yen from Monday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 111.55 yen. By 4 P.M. in New York, the dollar was worth 111.445 yen, up from 111.30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (68%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (68%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (84%); REFCO INC (68%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



503 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Hotel Profits for 1992 Show A Slow but Steady Recovery

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
In a sharp, unexpected turnabout, more than half the nation's hotels turned a profit last year -- the first time since 1989 that more than 50 percent were profitable.
A study released yesterday by the accounting firm Coopers & Lybrand, a leading consultant to the United States hospitality industry, showed that 51.5 percent of hotels were profitable last year, up from 39.9 percent in 1991. 
 In another indication that a slow, steady recovery is under way in the industry, room occupancy in the first quarter rose to 58.5 percent -- the highest rate of any first quarter since 1990. The two percentage point increase in occupancy over the 1992's first quarter was the biggest of any comparable period since 1989. The occupancy statistics were compiled by Smith Travel Research of Gallatin, Tenn., for the American Hotel and Motel Association.
 
Rate Increases Expected
 "What this means," said Bjorn Hanson, chairman of hospitality industry consulting at Coopers & Lybrand, "is that the hotel recovery is under way and there's a good chance that in 1995 room rates will increase greater than the rate of inflation."
Hotel rate increases have trailed the rate of inflation since 1987, Mr. Hanson said, and next year, they are likely to lag behind slightly. "But rates should be slightly higher than inflation in 1995," he added, "and occupancy should be close to 68 percent, compared with 62.2 percent last year."
The Smith Travel Research data show that room rates in the first quarter, historically the slowest in the lodging industry, averaged $61.35, or 2 percent more than the $60.07 average for the similar 1991 quarter. Smith also noted that while the Consumer Price Index rose more than 13 percent from the first quarter of 1989 through the first quarter of 1993, room rates increased only 5.5 percent.
Recovery appears to have been in the wings for at least several months. December's 48.1 percent occupancy rate was the highest for that month -- the industry's slowest -- since Smith Travel began compiling such figures in 1986. And in February, a report by the real estate services group of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen & Company said the industry might be heading for recovery.
Still, Mr. Hanson said, "I think the industry didn't expect there would be such an improvement in one year."
He attributed the increase in hotel profitability to the higher occupancy rates, the decline in interest rate burdens, because many hotels had restructured delinquent loans, and cost-containment measures, including lower taxes resulting from property tax appeals.
The Coopers & Lybrand report noted that the American Council of Life Insurance had said that the percentage of delinquent principal on hotel loans fell to 14.29 percent at the end of 1992 from a peak of 15.89 percent in the second quarter of 1992.
Limited-service hotels continue to do better than full-service hotels, the report said. Last year, 28.5 percent of limited-service hotels lost money, an improvement from 40.3 percent the year before. In 1992, 57.1 percent of full-service hotels recorded losses, an improvement from 68.4 percent in 1991.
Lenders will still be wary about investing in hotels until at least 1997, Mr. Hanson said, and not all hotels will benefit equally from the recovery. "There are still many hotels that are the wrong product and built on the wrong site," he said, "and they may never be successful."
Many such hotels were built primarily as tax write-offs, but the Tax Reform Act of 1986 eliminated most real estate tax shelters of that type.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Back to Growth" shows the average rate paid for a hotel room, per night, in the first quarter from '87-'93. (Source: Smith Travel Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (63%); AMERICAN HOTEL & MOTEL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN HOTEL & MOTEL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERS & LYBRAND AMERICAN HOTEL & MOTEL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN HOTEL & MOTEL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); INDUSTRY PROFILES HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LODGING (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INFLATION (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INTEREST RATES (70%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); TAX LAW (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



504 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Honda Net Falls 41% in Year Amid Sales Slump in U.S.

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 18

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company said today that profits fell 41 percent in the 1992 fiscal year as revenue dropped 5.9 percent amid slumping sales in the United States.
The results, the first released by a major Japanese auto maker for the year ended March 31, also reflect how the Japanese car industry is suffering from a high yen and recession at home, analysts said. 
 Honda's net profit for the year was 38.3 billion yen, or $329 million, compared with 64.88 billion yen in the 1991 fiscal year.
Revenue fell 5.9 percent, to 4.13 trillion yen, or $35.53 billion. Honda's total revenue is third among Japanese auto makers after Toyota and Nissan.
Honda's passenger car sales in North America plummeted 17 percent, to 794,000, reflecting the new popularity of American models like the Ford Taurus, which edged out the Honda Accord as the top-selling car in the United States in 1992.
The higher yen was also a blow to Honda. As the dollar has fallen from around 125 yen early this year to the 111-yen level, Honda's dollar-denominated profits from sales overseas have dropped when translated into yen.
Like all Japanese makers, Honda has raised prices in the United States to compensate for the yen's rise, but that has reduced its competitiveness.
"Japanese car makers have become unable to win" on price against American makers, one industry analyst said.
Meanwhile, the slowdown in Japan's economy helped cut Honda's domestic car sales 7.9 percent, to 616,000.
The outlook for the 1993 fiscal year is clouded by the yen's continued high level, Honda officials said. The company forecasts profits will be down 40 percent and sales down 3.2 percent this year, and those figures could be further revised downward, said an auto analyst, Takahisa Izawa of the Nomura Research Institute.
Honda, which makes nearly 45 percent of its sales in North America, will also be challenged by new models from the Chrysler Corporation that are expected to compete with Honda's Civic, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); 4307 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



505 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
DAYTON HUDSON (N)

 BODY:
As it warned Wall Street two weeks ago, the Dayton Hudson Corporation yesterday reported a 14 percent decline in first-quarter earnings.
The company said sales have been weak since the middle of February. "Consumers are very cautious," said Kenneth A. Macke, chairman and chief executive of Dayton Hudson, which operates the Target and Mervyn's chains as well as three department store chains. "Part of that is due to pervasive economic concerns, such as uncertainties about job security, tax increases and the cost of health-care reform." 
 Mr. Macke noted that the first quarter typically represents only a small portion of a retailer's sales and profits but cautioned that the company did not expect real improvement until the second half of the year.
Dayton Hudson has been particularly hit by the economic illness infecting California, where it has many stores. Jeffrey M. Feiner, a retail analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc., said the opening of between 50 and 65 new stores this year and efforts to provide shoppers with a trendier merchandise mix would enable Dayton Hudson to post better earnings as the economy gained momentum.

GRAPHIC: Table: "DAYTON HUDSON (N)"

Qtr. to May 1	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	4,040,000,000	3,719,000,000	+8.6	Net inc.	30,000,000	35,000,000	-14.3	Sh. earn	.35	.40		Sh. out.	71,800,000	71,500,000	 	
 
The latest first-quarter's earnings included a one- time charge of $3 million from the redemption of $50 million of 10 3/4 percent debentures at a premium.
The latest quarter's LIFO provision was a $6 million charge, compared with a $13 million charge in year- ago period.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$70.50
down 87.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (96%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: DAYTON HUDSON CORP TARGET CORP (96%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAYTON HUDSON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (54%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (54%); 

PERSON: KENNETH A MACKE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



506 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Review/Music;
The Cream Of Folk, Reunited For a Cause

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Pete Seeger has always had a gift for cutting to the essence of things in an easygoing, unpretentious way.
"There are as many kinds of folk songs as there are folks," he observed in the opening moments of "Folksongs U.S.A.," a benefit concert for the 92d Street Y on Monday evening that reunited many stars of the folk-music movement of the 1940's, 50's and 60's. 
 Mr. Seeger's point was that in today's climate of multiculturalism, the distinctions between folk and non-folk music seem increasingly tenuous. Doesn't every musical style have a specific association with some cultural or socio-economic group? And what music could be a more direct, outspoken expression of populist sentiment than rap, a genre that doesn't fit at all into the conventional definition of folk?
Mr. Seeger and the other performers who appeared -- Burl Ives, the Chad Mitchell Trio, Art Garfunkel, Eric Weissberg, Tom Paxton, Odetta, Theodore Bikel, Oscar Brand, Josh White Jr. and Paul Robeson Jr. -- all belong to a tradition that once shared a common definition of folk music.
It was assumed to be a body of work that had been handed down orally from generation to generation without the taint of commercialism. Homemade and unsophisticated, this time-tested music of the people, which comprised everything from lullabies to work songs, was taken as a purer alternative to the mainstream of popular song.
And in the political context of the folk movement, with its passionate commitment to civil rights and other liberal causes, folk singing was a powerful musical bond uniting diverse peoples who shared a common agenda.
That spirit shined through many of the performances and speeches in the show, which featured two notable reunions. One was the teaming of Mr. Seeger and Mr. Ives, who had not performed together for four decades, in a rendition of "Blue Tail Fly." Mr. Seeger, at 74, is still a robust performer. Mr. Ives, at 83, is not.
The other reunion was the first New York performance in more than three decades by the Chad Mitchell Trio. Until it broke up in 1965, the trio, which also includes Joe Frazier and Mike Kobluk, was the most musically polished and politically pointed among the many 60's male folk groups to cultivate a post-barbershop collegiate style. Their performance of the satirical song "The John Birch Society" showcased the trio's rough-and-ready style. The wistful "I Can't Help but Wonder" featured Mr. Frazier's still-superb folk-pop crooning.
Also outstanding were Mr. Garfunkel's renditions of "Scarborough Fair" and "April Come She Will," accompanied by Mr. Weissberg on guitar. Mr. Brand's jocular storytelling gave the show a note of humor, while Mr. Bikel's performance of a Russian gypsy song added a note of cheery exoticism. Odetta's two unaccompanied numbers connected folk music to old-time spirituals. Mr. Paxton, who has almost singlehandedly perpetuated the tradition of the topical broadside, delighted the audience with "Yuppies in the Sky," his dry satire of 1980's greed. Mr. White, with a stirring rendition of Billie Holiday's "Strange Fruit," and Mr. Robeson, in a formal speech remembering his father, each offered forceful reminders of the folk movement's role in the struggle for racial equality.
Of all those who weren't there, two whose presence was deeply felt were the folk legends Woody Guthrie and Leadbelly, who were remembered in audience sing-alongs of "This Land Is Your Land" and "Goodnight, Irene."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pete Seeger, seated at left, and Burl Ives performing in "Folksongs U.S.A." on Monday. They were joined by, standing from left, Eric Weissberg, Paul Prestopino, Theodore Bikel, unidentified man, Oscar Brand, Chad Mitchell, Joe Frazier, Mike Kobluk, Paul Robeson Jr., Odetta, Tom Paxton, Nancy Stewart, Bob Sherman, Beverly White and Josh White Jr. (Jack Vartoogian for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS; REVIEWS FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MUSIC GENRES (77%); LIBERALISM (70%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; SEEGER, PETE; IVES, BURL PETER 'PETE' SEEGER (93%); BURL IVES (69%); ARTHUR 'ART' GARFUNKEL (55%); PAUL LEROY ROBESON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



507 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk;
Mondavi on Wall St., Wine in the Limelight

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
WHEN the time comes to write the history of the wine business in the 1990's, the turning point may well prove to be the Robert Mondavi Winery's first public offering of shares of stock. If the sale goes well, as wine industry analysts are predicting, it will be a sign of market confidence in an industry that has had little to get excited about for close to a decade.
Proceeds from the sale of 3.7 million shares will be used to repay bank debt and clear the way for a new line of credit. The offering is scheduled for early June. The Napa Valley winery, eighth largest in production in the country, has said it expects to spend $70 million in the next four years, $20 million of it to replant vineyards destroyed by phylloxera. 
 Mondavi, which according to an advance copy of its prospectus expects an opening price of $14.50 a share on the Nasdaq, is only the third commercial winery in the United States to go public. It follows the Chalone Wine Group of San Francisco and the Canandaigua Wine Company, based in New York.
For a variety of reasons, banks have been reluctant to lend money to wineries in recent years. So if Mondavi's offering is successful, other large wineries are expected to follow suit. One trade publication mentioned Sutter Home and Glen Ellen Winery as possible candidates.
Jon Fredrikson, an industry analyst in San Francisco, said Mondavi's timing was excellent. "When C.D.'s were paying 10 percent," he said, "the wine industry, which averages about 5 percent on assets, wasn't such a good deal. With C.D.'s paying 3 and 4 percent, it's a different picture.
"Also, the stock market is booming and Mondavi's numbers are impressive. Their sales are up 50 percent over the last two calendar years and, for two years in a row they had the best performance of any premium winery."
From the mid-1980's until very recently, news about the American wine industry has been unrelentingly bad. To a degree it was a reaction to the euphoria of the 1970's and early 1980's, when double-digit expansion was the norm; when it seemed as if the country was on its way to becoming one of the important wine-consuming nations of the world.
Then, gradually but inexorably, the increase in consumption slowed, leveled off and began to decline. Concern about health, vigorous campaigns against drunken driving, and a heightened awareness of the social implications of drinking all took a toll. Moreover, the industry began to realize the United States would never be like Italy, where wine is part of the culture.
At the same time, it seemed that nature and the economy had begun to turn against the wine industry.
First, beginning in 1986, came a six-year drought that affected most of Napa and much of Sonoma and Mendocino counties, the heart of California's premium wine region. Then, phylloxera, the parasite that destroyed much of the world's vineyards in the 19th century, returned. It was first detected in 1983, but by 1990 it was clear that the bug would eventually destroy thousands of acres of prime West Coast vineyards. Uprooting and vine replacement will cost millions of dollars. One analyst calls phylloxera "the billion dollar bug."
Then, mostly because of bad real estate deals, banks no longer took wine makers' calls. Panic set in. Some wineries went bankrupt; others were sold to stronger neighbors.
All during this time, however, there was a strong countertrend. Over all, wine sales were off drastically, but sales of premium wine -- good table wines -- never stopped growing. Then came news reports of the "French paradox," including the assertion on the CBS News program "60 Minutes" late in 1991 that moderate amounts of wine could, in some circumstances, contribute to good health.
Sales of premium wine, especially red wine, soared in 1992; it was the industry's best year in a decade. Table-wine shipments in 1992 were worth $3.2 billion, or 10 percent over the previous year, the largest increase in a decade. Shipments of premium wines, those costing about $4 or more a bottle, were up 16 percent for the year, to $1.6 billion. For the year ending June 30, 1992, revenue was $154 million, up 23 percent from $125 million the year before.
Mondavi's high-profile image in the wine industry is enhanced by Robert Mondavi himself. Mr. Mondavi, 80, is unquestionably the best-known figure in the American wine industry, a master salesman not only for his own wines but for American premium wines in general. (Upon the consummation of the offering, members of the Mondavi family will retain a majority of the outstanding shares.)
The Mondavi company is more than just the mission-style winery founded in the Napa Valley in 1966. That winery produces 700,000 cases of wine a year. Robert Mondavi Wood ridge, the company's winery in the Central Valley, founded in 1979, produces three million cases a year. The Vichon Winery, an operation purchased in 1985, produces 40,000 cases of Napa Valley wines and 60,000 of Coast Selection wines made from grapes grown by the Mondavis in vineyards 300 miles south of Napa.
In 1979, the Mondavis entered into a joint venture with Chateau Mouton-Rothschild of Bordeaux. The result is Opus One, a winery in the Napa Valley that produces a single $50-a-bottle wine in the Bordeaux style. Annual production is 18,000 cases. A separate Opus One winery was built at a cost of some $20 million.
In 1987, the Mondavis purchased a portion of the large Tepusquet Vineyard, at Santa Maria in Santa Barbara County. In 1990, they bought the Byron Winery and 640 acres of grapes in the same area. Byron now produces 25,000 cases a year.
The two other publicly traded winery stocks (both on the Nasdaq) have not performed spectacularly. Chalone's share price fell 50 cents yesterday, to $6.75, compared with a high of $9.50 in April 1992. Canandaigua closed at $19.25 a share, up 25 cents on the day but down from a high of $25.50 in May of last year.
Canandaigua is a large business, producing 18 million cases of wine and wine coolers annually under more than 70 labels. It's best-known product is Wild Irish Rose, an inexpensive, fortified wine. The Chalone group includes three small premium California wineries -- Chalone Vineyard, Acacia Winery and Carmenet Vineyard -- and two partnerships, the Edna Valley Vineyard, in the Central Coast region, and Canoe Ridge Vineyard, near Walla Walla, Wash., a joint venture with a group of Washington State investors.
Chalone also has a cross-investment arrangement with Domaines Barons de Rothschild, owners of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild and other wine properties in France, Chile and Portugal. The Domaines Barons de Rothschild have no connection with the branch of the family that owns Chateau Mouton-Rothschild, with whom the Mondavis operate Opus One.
In promoting its stock, Chalone has never emphasized dividends or long-term appreciation. Rather, its quarterly statements talk about wine bargains available only to shareholders and list shareholder trips to Chateau Lafite-Rothschild or Los Vascos, the Rothschild's Chilean property. Chalone's annual meeting is a social event held at one of the more picturesque wineries, with not too much emphasis on financial matters.
The Mondavi share offering, prepared by Goldman, Sachs and Company and the California underwriters Hambrecht & Quist Inc., makes no mention of junkets. But given the Mondavi flair for showmanship, and Robert Mondavi's abhorrence of being second to anyone, the winery's new role as a public company should be fascinating to follow.
 
TASTINGS
Gewurztraminer, Late Harvest, 1989, Navarro Vineyards, Anderson Valley; Sweet, Cluster Selected; about $15.
 
With a name like this, a crib sheet might be in order. But first, it really is a good wine. You probably know gewurztraminer. It's the intensely fruity, spicy grape that made the Alsace region of France famous. Late harvest means that the grapes were left on the vine well after the regular picking season. In good years, they shrivel up, becoming almost pure sugar with intense flavors of the grape. Navarro Vineyards, in Mendocino County in California, has built a reputation for producing quality dessert wines. The sweetness is balanced by natural acids. "Cluster selected" means that the pickers took only those clusters of grapes that are ripe enough for a late harvest wine. The wine is sold in half bottles because it is a rich, almost syrupy after-dinner drink. It is also a bargain, compared with the German and Alsatian equivalents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Mondavi's company is offering shares of stock. (Terrence McCarthy) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WINE TALK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: STZ (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (68%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (68%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (68%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (68%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (68%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (68%); NAICS111332 GRAPE VINEYARDS (55%); SIC0172 GRAPES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONDAVI, ROBERT, WINERY CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (68%); CHALONE WINE GROUP LTD (55%); GLEN ELLEN WINERY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONDAVI, ROBERT, WINERY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; STOCKS (CORPORATE); FINANCES; CREDIT; WINES WINERIES (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (60%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J ROBERT MONDAVI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



508 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Fresh, Low-Fat, Healthful Food (On a Plane?)

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
AS planes settle into their cruising altitudes for the high travel season this summer, vacation-bound travelers may be surprised at what flight attendants dispense from the food carts.
There could be pizza from Pizzeria Uno on American Airlines, Muslim dinners for some passengers on Kiwi International Air Lines, kosher hamburgers for children on El Al, salt-free grilled tournedos for a passenger with high blood pressure flying in Air France economy class and a choice between Western and Indian meals on Air India. 
Airline food has fought an image problem longer than Rodney Dangerfield has, even though, compared with root canal or lost luggage, dining 6 or 8 across at 35,000 feet is not all that bad.
In response to food trends and concerns about diet, a number of airlines have started serving food that is fresher, lighter and lower in fat. Breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks are starting to reflect contemporary tastes -- frozen yogurt for dessert instead of gummy cake with a maraschino cherry, for example. The change is happening in economy class as well as in the more expensive first and business classes.
At the same time, people whose diets are restricted because of medical or religious reasons are taking advantage of an expanded array of meals tailored to their needs, which most airlines offer by advance reservation. Some travelers, especially those who fly frequently on business, order special meals like seafood or vegetarian plates for variety.
These choices, plus new meals for children, like McDonald's cheeseburgers on United Airlines flights to and from Orlando, Fla., have evolved from requests by passengers. And in the cutthroat contest to fill seats, an airline that does not provide a special meal for a customer with special needs could lose that passenger to the competition. Possibly for good.
In surveys, passengers say they pay relatively little attention to meals when choosing a carrier. Nevertheless, when it comes to customer satisfaction, airlines have found that food is a factor. Even though many people can drive an automobile for two hours in bumper-to-bumper traffic with nothing to eat, in the sky they want food. It keeps children quiet, and business travelers can go directly from the plane to a meeting without stopping for a meal.
On long flights, food is twice as important as on shorter hauls, according to a study conducted among 6,339 frequent travelers last fall by J. D. Power & Associates, a marketing and information company in Los Angeles. That study also showed that having a choice in meals is actually more important to passengers than how good the food actually is (but it is less important to them than getting a comfortable headset).
Airlines, determined to keep customers content, have listened. "It's a reaction to consumers who want healthier food," said Joel Crawley, a spokesman for American Airlines.
Economics plays a part, too. Lower fat -- pasta instead of beef at dinner, cereal and a muffin in place of a cheese omelet for breakfast -- coincides with lower cost. "On American, United and Delta, they have found they can make cheaper food better," said Lisa Sanders, associate editor of Frequent Flyer magazine, a monthly consumer publication.
American Airlines began a new meal program in January that emphasizes pasta, chicken, grains and vegetables. In coming months, Delta Air Lines, which revised its menus in first class in early April, serving grilled skinless chicken instead of chicken in a thick sauce, for example, will be making similar changes in economy class.
Kiwi International, a fledgling American airline that began service from Newark Airport in September, emphasizes the quality and freshness of its food. A typical offering might be marinated grilled chicken, brown rice, ratatouille, salad, cheese and crackers, fruit and pastry, served with a glass of mineral water.
In April, Thai Airways, which had served Western food unless a special request was made, started offering a choice of Thai or Continental food in all classes. "Thai has become an 'in' cuisine," said Pandit Chanapai, the general manager of the airline. "So we thought it would be good to give people a taste of Thai cuisine."
On July 1, United Airlines, which began a meal overhaul last fall, will introduce more special meals, including high-fiber meals and ones made specifically for people with gout.
"You can do a lot with vegetarian meals to make them look good," said Kurt Lackner, director of catering operations for United. "You can serve couscous, Basmati rice and grains like that so it's not always just carrots and plain white rice."
Not everybody is convinced. "In some cases, the food is improved," said Ms. Sanders of Frequent Flyer magazine. "It's simpler -- they have eliminated the heavier sauces and the London broil you can't identify -- but it's still airline food, so how good can it be?"
Airline executives say they have offered special meals as long as they can remember. But the number of choices -- including kosher, Muslim, Hindu, diabetic, lactose-free, gluten-free, low sodium, low cholesterol, baby food, peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and lacto-ovo vegetarian -- has grown in recent years.
Among the more exotic special meals are the pepper-free meal on Japan Air Lines and the raw vegetarian meal on Lufthansa German Airlines. The Greek Orthodox and Ethiopian meals served on El Al for Lent or other special observances are also kosher, as is all the food on that airline. Some of the airlines that serve the Far East have noticed that an increasing number of Western passengers order Asian meals.
Over all, a relatively small percentage of passengers -- no more than about 5 percent -- request special meals. They're the passengers flight attendants single out between drinks and dinner, and it's rarely more than a handful on any given flight. But some airlines, notably Lufthansa, Delta and United, report that this number is increasing.
"Some people ask what they can get instead of the regular meal," said Robert Kunikoff, a travel consultant with Mark Allan Travel, an international travel agency with headquarters in New York. "It's not a restaurant, but there are some good choices."
Paradoxically, in the five months since American Airlines began revamping its food, the airline has seen the number of requests for some special meals decrease.
"These days, someone who specially ordered a low-fat or vegetarian breakfast may see his seatmate being served the cold cereal and a bran muffin that the rest of the cabin is getting and may regret the special order," Mr. Crawley, the spokesman, said. "People remember the old days, when it was always something greasy."
Connie Baird, the senior analyst for menu design at American Airlines, said the carrier was trying to make food healthier and more appealing. "At the same time, we've actually simplified all the food we serve, and we've become more realistic about what we can do," she said.
Both United and American enlisted the services of top chefs like Charlie Trotter, Larry Forgione, Alice Waters and Wolfgang Puck to help with menu overhaul. Trying to make the food fresher was one result.
Ho-hum. From time to time, one airline or another has announced with great fanfare that its first-class meals were being planned by some famous chef, but such arrangements have rarely had any impact on the food in the main cabin. This time, however, the airlines' efforts appear to be reaching all classes of service.
Neil Monroe, a spokesman for Delta, where requests for special meals have doubled in recent years, said that by providing healthier, lighter food, the carrier hoped the need to provide some special meals would decline. "The special meals themselves may not be more expensive, but the extra handling required on the ground and in the air adds to our costs."
On some flights, like the New York to Miami route, where many of the passengers are elderly and have special dietary requirements, special meals can account for up to 40 percent of the cabin. "Serving special meals is usually not a problem, and it's a way to accommodate the passengers," said Tracy Brog, a flight attendant for Delta. "But on a short flight like from La Guardia to West Palm Beach, when you have 300 passengers and 100 special meals, it gets pretty hectic."
The average cost for food on a major American carrier was $5.86 a passenger last year, up from $5.70 in 1991 and $4.21 in 1985, according to Avitas, an airline consulting company in Reston, Va. The growing use of brand-name products, like cups of "I Can't Believe It's Yogurt" on American Airlines, added to the expense. Most American carriers will not disclose how much they spend on a coach dinner. But at Kiwi International, an average dinner costs $6.
At Air France, which prides itself on its food and has a division that buys ingredients for the caterer in order to maintain control, the cost of dinner in coach is $12, said Pierre Magat, the regional catering manager for North America.
But by responding to consumer demands, many airlines are starting to prove that even a $5 dinner can be healthier and more satisfying than in the past.
And for those travelers who still might not be satisfied because the pasta is not al dente or the grilled mesquite chicken is dry, there is always the option of ordering the Western vegetarian meal, the seafood dinner, a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, a fruit plate, a Hindu meal. . . .

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michel Martin, a chef for Air France, at Kennedy Airport. (Steve Hart for The New York Times) (pg. C6)
 
Charts: "But Can You Get a Sandwich" lists some special dishes available on various airlines. (pg. C1); "The Qantas Smorgasbord" shows special meals offered by the airline; "Special Food? Plan in Advance" shows number of meal options and required hours of notice for 16 airlines. (pg. C6)
 
Drawing. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (57%); AF (AMS) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIWI INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FOOD; DIET AND NUTRITION; NYTRAVEL NUTRITION (92%); AIRLINES (92%); OILS & FATS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); MEAT FREE DIETS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TRENDS (74%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (72%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (68%); MARKETING SURVEYS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE RODNEY DANGERFIELD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



509 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: A Channel for Culture To Be Offered to Cable

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
Think of it as C-Span for the intelligentsia, ESPN for mind games or MTV for fans of heavy reading.
The Public Broadcasting Service, together with its two flagship stations, WGBH in Boston and WNET in New York City, announced yesterday that it was starting a cable channel devoted exclusively to cultural affairs. The new channel, called Horizons TV, will show events like university lectures and debates, museum symposiums, public readings and forums on the arts. 
 The sponsors of Horizons TV said they hoped to have the channel up and running by the end of 1994. They said virtually all of the channel's programming would consist of taped events, at least initially.
At a news conference yesterday at the New York Public Library, Lawrence K. Grossman, the former president of PBS and of NBC News, who is the president of the new venture, said, "There's a wealth of great minds, and an opportunity to bring them to a greater audience is irresistible." What C-Span did to increase the visibility of the average Senator, Mr. Grossman said, Horizons TV will do for Nobel laureates and National Book Award winners.
The promotional video for the channel has lectures by Kurt Vonnegut, Stephen Jay Gould and Walter Cronkite, and readings by Alice Walker and Eudora Welty.
While the organizers of Horizons TV acknowledged that the public appetite for academic topics was limited, they said that the channel's programming could be produced so inexpensively that it would need only a modest audience to support it. They said they would start the channel once cable systems serving 5 million subscribers had agreed to carry it. Nationwide, about 60 million households subscribe to cable television.
Mr. Grossman said that the channel had no commitments from cable operators yet but that many had expressed interest. He said individual cable systems would decide whether to offer the channel as part of a basic cable package or to charge extra for it.
Mr. Grossman said Horizons TV would not receive Federal money. He said it would rely on cable subscriber fees and advertising but would not allow advertising to interrupt programming. He said projections called for the channel to be self-supporting after four years.
Cable analysts yesterday voiced some skepticism about the project. While the cable industry is laying plans for a world of 500 channels, most cable systems are filled up now. They are also confronting the economic uncertainties of re-regulation and are looking for programming that will maximize their profits.
"If it doesn't really help a cable company, why would you get a lot of carriage?" said John Tinker, a media analyst for Furman, Selz.
Market research sponsored by Horizons TV shows that many of the viewers who would be most interested in the channel are those who do not watch much television or even subscribe to cable. This could discourage cable systems from carrying Horizons TV. Or, as Marshall Cohen, who conducted the research, argued, it could encourage them to carry the channel in the hopes of attracting new subscribers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HORIZONS TV (CABLE CHANNEL); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); WNET (TV STATION) (NYC); WGBH-TV (BOSTON) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HORIZONS TV (CABLE CHANNEL); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS); WNET (TV STATION) (NYC); WGBH-TV (BOSTON) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; TELEVISION PROGRAMS PUBLIC TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



510 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Girl, 6, Hit by Car and Critically Injured on the Way to School

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

 BODY:
A 6-year-old girl whose mother was walking her to school on the Upper West Side yesterday morning was critically injured when a van forced a car up onto a sidewalk, hitting the girl, the police said.
The driver of the van, who was ticketed for making an unsafe lane change, had a history of moving violations and was involved in a personal injury accident in August, the police said. He had accrued eight license suspensions over several years, which he resolved by either paying outstanding tickets or scheduling court appearances. 
 The accident occurred shortly after 8:30 A.M., when the streets were teeming with people on their way to school or work.
The girl, Sunya Margulies, described by neighbors as friendly and intelligent, was walking with her mother, Vicky, to Public School 87 on West 78th Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, where she is a first grader.
 
Friendly With Neighbors
 A neighbor of the Margulieses, Lynn Rosenzweig, 23, who said she sometimes baby-sits for the little girl, heard about the accident and said, "Oh my God, that's the girl I babysit for."
Ms. Rosenzweig, crying, called Sunya "an adorable, wonderful girl" and "very, very intelligent."
"I felt an immediate bonding with her," she added.
The doorman at the apartment building where the Margulieses live at 800 West End Avenue said Sunya is "a very friendly" child. "She's talking with me every time she comes around," said the doorman, Domingo Baez. He said she and her mother had recently moved in to the building from an apartment near the scene where she was hit yesterday.
A police spokesman, Detective Joseph K. McConville, said the accident occurred when an 1981 Chevrolet van driven by Luis Deno, 35, of 736 Riverside Drive, was heading south on Broadway and cut off a car driven by Sermy Onelien, 54, of 200 West 81st Street. Mr. Onelien's car swerved out of control, hit Sunya and slammed into La Caridad, a popular Cuban-Chinese restaurant on the southwest corner of Broadway at 78th Street.
The driver of the van drove away as a witness wrote down his license plate number, but he turned himself in to the police a little later. He was charged with moving from a lane unsafely, punishable by a maximum $100 fine and 15 days in jail. The driver of the car was not charged.
Mr. Deno, who came from the Dominican Republic a couple of years ago, is an unemployed cabdriver who has a wife and three children, his brother, Emerson, said last night.
He said his brother was driving around and was not aware at first he had caused an accident. He only learned of it when his sister-in-law beeped him to say reporters were showing up at his apartment. When he learned he was being sought by the police, he went to the nearest station house.
"My brother said he was just driving and he didn't see nothing," Emerson Deno said.
 
Smashed Gates and Glass

Late yesterday, Sunya was in stable but critical condition with head injuries in the pediatric intensive-care unit at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, said a hospital spokeswoman, Barbara Quinn.
Last night, in the lobby of the Margulieses' apartment house, Lucchi Grant, a painter from France, said that Sunya is the center of her mother's life. "She was so sweet, that little girl," she said. "She seemed so grown up. She had a wisdom about her."
Another neighbor, Minnie Johnson, recalled: "I'd see her in the morning, walking hand in hand with Sunya down the street to the bus stop. It was really cute."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); CHILDREN (89%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (75%); RESTAURANTS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE; MARGUILIES, SUNYA; DENO, LUIS; ONELIEN, SERMY

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



511 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Time to Discipline the Democrats

 BODY:
Representatives Dave McCurdy, Charles Stenholm and fellow moderate-to-conservative Democrats are disgruntled. They're threatening to vote against President Clinton's economic plan because, they contend, it betrays the "New Democrat" logo of the campaign in favor of the party's liberal penchant for tax-and-spend.
The threat is serious and, if mismanaged, could cripple the Clinton Presidency. Voters put Mr. Clinton and a Democratic Congress in office with the expectation that the Democrats would behave like a party -- ending gridlock and enacting the President's economic package. The leadership credentials of both the President and his party will surely suffer if he and the party's Congressional leaders cannot soon whip their colleagues into line. 
 Messrs. McCurdy and Stenholm are responding to middle-class constituents who complain, with justification, that they elected Mr. Clinton because he vowed to lower their taxes, cut wasteful Federal spending and reduce the oversized deficit. What Mr. Clinton now offers them instead is a hundred-billion-dollar tax hike, minimally reduced Federal spending and a deficit barely below George Bush's levels.
These are legitimate concerns. The response is misguided. The oversimplified, Perot-like remedy Mr. Stenholm offers -- a cap on entitlement spending -- hits the wrong people at the wrong time for the wrong reason. That's a powerful set of wrongs.
An expenditure cap will victimize the poor. It will also victimize the economy. During economic slowdowns, outlays for food stamps, unemployment compensation and welfare rise automatically; the increased spending serves the dual purpose of helping the disadvantaged and pumping up private spending just when the economy is suffering. The way Mr. Stenholm structures the cap threatens these important protections.
Further, Mr. Stenholm ignores the reasons entitlements have spiraled out of control. Non-medical entitlements other than Social Security have actually fallen after accounting for inflation. Health benefits under Medicare and Medicaid have exploded because of overall inflation in medical costs. If, as Mr. Stenholm proposes, Congress goes after only the Federal programs, leaving private insurance alone, it would interfere with the overall reform the White House is about to put before Congress. Indeed, if there are savings to be made by reforming Medicare and Medicaid, the task force will grab every penny to pay for extending coverage to the uninsured -- the key component of its plan.
If entitlement caps aren't the answer, how about big hits at non-defense discretionary spending? Congress, at Mr. Stenholm's insistence, has already knocked about $50 billion out of Mr. Clinton's long-term budget plan -- probably forcing it to gut Mr. Clinton's proposed investments in infrastructure and training that make up the core of the "New Democrat" package the two Congressmen profess to admire.
So here's Mr. Clinton's dilemma. He can't cut discretionary spending (a) because Congress has whacked away too much already and (b) because programs to invest in America's capital base are crucial to long-term economic recovery. He can't cut entitlement spending without reforming health care, which will take years to accomplish. He could rightly propose steeper defense cuts, but that would not endear him to his party's conservative wing.
That leaves Mr. Clinton only one, unpleasant option: Fight off Mr. Stenholm's misguided challenge. Mr. Clinton must persuade Mr. Stenholm and friends to back off or threaten them into it. This is no time to coddle those who break ranks. It is time for Thomas Foley and other Congressional chieftains to enforce discipline and exercise the leadership that comes with their exalted station.
For his part Mr. Clinton could help by making believable pledges that health-care reform will eventually produce big savings and that he will return after the 1994 elections to the task of bigger spending cuts.
Mr. Stenholm's and Mr. McCurdy's sentiments are understandable, but their responses are poorly conceived, illogical and aimed more at their own aggrandizement than the success of their President and party. Mr. Clinton needs to calm the dissidents, and they need to think a lot harder about what's good for the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); MEDICAID (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCCURDY, DAVID (REPR); STENHOLM, CHARLES W (REPR) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



512 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Tax Break Fattens the Banks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Puerto Rico Fighting to Keep Its Tax Breaks for Business" (front page, May 10) misses an important point in describing the role of banks in the island's economy. 
 While major mainland financial institutions have established offices in Puerto Rico to satisfy the needs of the Section 936 companies that operate here, their intent is not altruistic. Like the Fortune 500 corporations who shift mainland profits to Puerto Rico to minimize their tax liability, banks have discovered means to use 936 to their advantage.
Banks are allowed to count 936 deposits in their island operations as part of their total United States holdings. Using this to their advantage, mainland banks use deposits originating on the island to fulfill reserve requirements for the Federal Reserve, thus freeing mainland-derived funds for more lucrative long-term investment opportunities abroad.
What's more, little of the available capital in the banks is used to build Puerto Rico. While investigating the potential impact of the loss of 936, the Puerto Rico Senate concluded that the vast majority -- more than 90 percent -- of investments of 936 funds in the island are for a duration of 90 days or less. How can anyone seriously contend that such investments play a positive, essential role in the Puerto Rican economy?
As the banks and corporate America grow fatter, investment in the Puerto Rican infrastructure is sorely lacking. Our drinking water system is unreliable. The sewage treatment is inefficient. The roads that Section 936 employees use to get to work are poorly maintained. Clearly, the "economic miracle" of 936 is not shared by all. As United States citizens, the 3.6 million residents of Puerto Rico deserve better than third-world living conditions. Reforming this inefficient and costly tax credit will bring additional revenue to the United States Treasury and clear the way for a new economic stimulus program that builds Puerto Rico for the benefit of all.
 
MIRIAM RAMIREZ DE FERRER
President
Puerto Ricans in Civic Action
Mayaguez, P.R., May 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



513 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Punishing China on Trade Hurts Wrong People

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There must be more productive ways for President Clinton to pressure China on human rights issues than by not extending most-favored-nation trade status, which you propose in "Favor Freedom in China" (editorial, May 10). 
 The revocation of most-favored-nation status could prove so destructive to the growing free-market sector in China that those whose rights we wish to protect would be most harmed. Meanwhile, extending this trade status will further nourish those pushing political and economic reform so that these free marketers will one day have a chance to become the leaders of China who pursue human rights as they make China a responsible world citizen.
While we are all still repulsed by the deaths in Tiananmen Square, do not forget that more than 1 million Chinese demonstrated more than six weeks there. Would such a protest have been possible if not for the influence of the United States in the 20 years since we opened the door to China? Mr. Clinton, by revoking most-favored-nation status and threatening China's economy, risks giving Chinese hard-liners, whose positions would best be served by a return to a state-controlled economy, an excuse to close that door. What say will we then have on human rights in China?
 
GARY DRAKE
Denver, May 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



514 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Punishing China on Trade Hurts Wrong People;
Faulty Jobs Argument

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "China Steps Up Spending To Keep U.S. Trade Status" (front page, May 7), I was dismayed to see the assertion quoted that failing to renew most-favored-nation status for China would cost 150,000 American jobs. 
 This argument is based on a Commerce Department estimate that 20,000 American jobs are needed to produce $1 billion in exports. By the same logic, 20,000 American jobs would be gained by forgoing $1 billion in imports. So trading with China, where we run a $15 billion trade deficit, costs us some 300,000 jobs.
That logic is faulty. There is no reason to assume that part or all of the goods we produce for export to China couldn't be exported elsewhere or sold domestically. Likewise, imports are a net benefit to the economy if you factor in the jobs created in importing and the benefit to consumers of cheaper Chinese products.
The marginal benefit of trade with China is important to the United States, but so are human rights and so is avoiding proliferation in missile technologies.
 
MATTHEW CHANOFF
San Francisco, May 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



515 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: When Disabled Students Enter Regular Classrooms

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHNSON CITY, N.Y.

 BODY:
Merari Vazquez's fellow second and third graders are learning about perimeters. Measuring is hard for Merari, who is mentally retarded and does not speak. But she is part of the group, and her classmates need to find a way she can work with them. They coax her to lie down on a big pad, using her to do their measuring.
Merari is part of a bold but hotly debated educational experiment: teaching even severely handicapped children in regular public-school classrooms instead of separate ones. The idea goes far beyond "mainstreaming," which usually involves milder disabilities; at schools like Merari's, no heads turn at children using wheelchairs, feeding tubes or oxygen tanks. 
 Schools like those in Johnson City, in south-central New York, are rare; no one keeps a nationwide count. But experts say their number is growing. And as it grows, the movement toward "inclusion" is dividing advocates for disabled children. Some hail it as an ethical and educational breakthrough; others believe children's individual needs are being sacrificed in a crusade.
At schools in places like Johnson City and Redmond, Wash. -- which pay for extra aides, special education teachers to modify lessons and teacher training -- children with disabilities from autism to Down's syndrome are flourishing socially and educationally. Their classmates, too, learn empathy and tolerance for those who are different. Moreover, because many schools use the money they would have spent on special education classes to pay for the extra help the disabled students need in regular schools, inclusion does not have to cost more.
But some studies show that in schools that offer inclusion programs with little extra help to these students, children are failing. Some children, particularly those with emotional problems, strain regular classrooms; others may need the smaller, quieter and more individual settings of special education. And inclusion seems to be a daunting task in inner cities, where many teachers face overcrowded classrooms already full of troubled children.
"I'm very pro-inclusion on a philosophical basis, but it isn't working well," said James Ysseldyke, a professor at the University of Minnesota who worked to introduce inclusion in Minneapolis schools as part of a four-year federally financed project. "It's being used with every good intention to do some terrible things to kids."
 
With Training, A Program Works
 Johnson City is a small, largely blue-collar suburb of Binghamton with 3,000 children enrolled in its four schools. The school district has been innovative for 20 years, recognized by the Education Department as a national model, both for its students' high test scores and its creative teaching methods. Since 1986, Johnson City has moved all but 14 of its nearly 200 special education students to regular classrooms; as many as 10 percent of the students in any given class may be disabled in some way.
Though no one knows exactly how many schools like Johnson City's there are now nationwide, partly because there are so many forms of inclusion, they are clearly reaching thousands of children. In the 1989-90 school year, the last year for which figures were available, 6 percent of children with multiple disabilities and 6.7 percent of mentally retarded children, for example, were in regular classrooms, according to the Education Department.
But statistics can be misleading, particularly because states or schools with low percentages of children in special education do not say whether disabled students receive extra services in regular classrooms.
In New York City, where 15,000 students with severe disabilities are taught in separate schools, 30 are being placed in regular kindergarten and first-grade classrooms in six schools as part of an experimental program.
Johnson City schools are full of sights that in other schools would be extraordinary. Some of the desks have charts with letters and numbers, for children who cannot speak and need to point to communicate.
A classmate casually tucks C. J. Shearn's books in the back of his wheelchair as C. J. rolls himself to his next sixth-grade class, pausing as other students slap him five. When Bobby Westcott needs to stop playing to breathe with his oxygen tank, his kindergarten classmates matter-of-factly take a break, too.
At the Emily Dickinson School in Redmond, an affluent suburb of Seattle, Andy Heilman, 12, plans to share a bunk at summer camp with Cameron Archibald, who cannot read or write, must be fed through a tube and suffers from seizures. The other day, when Cameron was upset at having to leave class to return a book to the library, Andy took his arm. 'I'll be here when you get back, okay, Cam?" Andy said.
Such comfort and friendliness do not come automatically. Students in Redmond were given training in sensitivity before the special-education students entered their classrooms. And in Johnson City, teachers show children how to treat on another.
Lori Sinicki, a special education teacher who teaches in inclusive classrooms at Johnson City Senior High School, says it is attitudes like these that set Johnson City apart. "We're demystifying disabilities," she said. "But we don't just say we're putting kids in the classroom for socialization. There has to be learning going on."
Indeed, a study of the district by Christine Salisbury, then a professor at the State University of New York at Binghamton, found that test scores of both disabled and regular students continued to rise over a three-year period after they were put in the same classes. She has not measured beyond that period.
To make sure all children learn, Mrs. Sinicki and other special education teachers work closely with regular teachers. Disabled children are placed with others their own age. The teachers change teaching materials, making tapes of books for children who have trouble reading or adding maps and charts for children who need a visual presentation of information. They alter tests, making some multiple choice so that children who cannot write can point to the right answers. Teachers set different goals for different students; some might get top grades if they learn part of the material.
Parents say they are delighted. Pat Poliziano's son Andrew, who has multiple handicaps, spoke his first words and made friends in his first-grade class at Lincoln Elementary School in Johnson City. "He progresses better when he has an example," she said. "When we were kids, they trotted kids like him into a special bus and they were never put on view."
 
Seeing Perils In Larger Programs
 But a large chorus of skeptics say that the successes in Johnson City and Redmond are the shining exceptions to a dismal rule. These are small, relatively homogeneous and innovative districts. But in most schools, they say, inclusion means depositing children in regular classrooms without extra help for them or specially trained teachers.
"Take the teacher where 20 percent of her kids speak Spanish, 10 percent Hmong; she's got 37 kids in her classroom now. Talk to her about including a kid who needs an aide, and she'll look at you crosswise," said Dr. Mary Wagner, director of the National Longitudinal Transition Study of Special Education Students, the largest such study of students' academic results.
Her study of high schools found that while disabled students in regular classrooms made more friends and fitted better into groups, the longer they spent in regular classrooms, the more likely they were to fail and drop out. For example, 61 percent of students who had learning disabilities failed at least one class when placed in regular education, as against 14 percent who remained in special education classes.
Dr. Wagner and many other advocates for disabled children worry that the inclusion movement will mean that these children will lose what is theirs by Federal law -- the legal right to get special services and the extra money needed to pay for them. With schools under financial pressure, these advocates worry that districts will abolish special education as an economizing device and fail to put the money into support services.
The 1975 law establishing handicapped children's rights to special services called for placing such children in regular classrooms whenever possible, but including a "continuum of services," or a range of programs, including separate schools and separate small classes offering individual help. Several organizations for disabled children, including the nation's largest, the Council for Exceptional Children, say they support inclusion whenever sensible, but insist on keeping separate classes for those children who need them.
"Inclusion doesn't make sense for all kids," Professor Ysseldyke said.
Even in Johnson City, there are dissenters. Howard Rhodes, a special education counselor, says he believes in the ideal of inclusion but adds that Some children do not benefit from it.
To do a better job, he said, the district should offer many more services, including psychiatrists, family counseling and remedial classes.
Dr. Ed Martin, president of the National Center for Disability Services in Albertson, L.I., and a chief architect of the 1975 law, says he has come to believe that separate schools for disabled children have the same legitimacy as historically black colleges. Many of the children he sees in the center's Henry Viscardi School for those with severe disabilities do strikingly better academically and socially. "They rattle off a litany of disappointing experiences they had," he said. "They say, 'I felt left out; kids made fun of me; it didn't work for me.' "
 
Where No Child May Feel 'Inferior'
 The debate over inclusion is consuming the politically active special education community, with true believers on each side. But for many parents, particularly those whose children did not thrive in special education, inclusion offers hope that schools can be changed so they are more hospitable places for their children.
Mary Roadcap, who works as an aide in Johnson City, has a disabled son who dropped out of school. "If my son had been at this place," she said, "he wouldn't have felt inferior." She spent her day helping Darran Caswell, a fourth grader who could not speak and has trouble walking. When children spoke to her, she gently told them that Darran could hear them. She coaxed Darran to participate in the measuring class, and praised him when he lay down on the pad by himself.
"Other school systems don't know what to do with a child who's a little different," she said. "If I can help one person here, it's enough, because nobody cared about my son."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about Bobby Wescott, a disabled kindergartner in a regular public school, referred incorrectly in some copies to his position in the picture. He was second from the right.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For Cameron Archibald of Redmond, Wash., left, who suffers from seizures, placement in a regular public school setting has meant a friendship with Andy Heilman that they plan to continue in summer camp. (Therese Frare for The New York Times) (pg. A1); While the experts engage in debate on whether severely handicapped children should be included in a regular public school setting, the pupils themselves are often quick to make it commonplace. In Johnson City, N.Y., when Bobby Westcott, second from right, needs to take a rest from playing to breathe with his oxygen tank, his kindergarten classmates take a break from their games and pause with him. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JOHNSON CITY (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); HANDICAPPED; FINANCES DISABLED PERSONS (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); DOWN SYNDROME (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); TEACHER EDUCATION (71%); AUTISM (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



516 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Congress Gets Briefing On Bank Subsidy Plan

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 18

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today told lawmakers for the first time the details of its plan to create a scaled-down Federal fund to subsidize community development banks, which lend and invest in needy neighborhoods.
At a briefing for Democrats on the House Banking Committee, senior Administration officials described a new Community Banking and Credit Fund that would provide hundreds of millions of dollars in capital and technical assistance to specialized financial institutions promoting business, housing, and employment opportunities in deprived communities. 
 The briefing came on a day when President Clinton, touring Los Angeles, was emphasizing the urban-aid programs in his budget proposals.
But the program, outlined by Robert E. Rubin, the President's assistant for economic affairs, and Frank Newman, an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, falls considerably short of what Clinton officials had envisioned before and after the election, when there was talk of creating 100 community development banks and spending as much as $850 million to finance them in the first five years.
 
$382 Million Requested
 The Administration's proposal, as presented today, emphasizes the role of existing financial institutions in community development, including federally insured banks, savings associations and credit unions, and asks for $382 million through the fiscal year 1997, including $60 million in the fiscal year that will begin Oct. 1.
One member of the committee, Representative Bobby L. Rush, Democrat of Illinois, argued that the proposal "does not have a sufficient amount of dollars, particularly given the vastness of the lack of credit in the cities." Mr. Rush, who represents a Chicago district, rose to political visibility nearly a generation ago as a leader of the Black Panther Party
Bankers, who had worried that the Administration was going too far with its initial concepts, welcomed the current approach. "They are not inventing a new system; they are building on the current system," said Edward L. Yingling, a lobbyist for the American Bankers Association. "We feel very good about that."
At the briefing, some Democrats worried that there would not be enough assistance for new organizations that are struggling.
And some Republicans complained about the Administration's proposals.
"There were far better ways to use the community development bank concept to address the needs of distressed communities than this one," said Representative Tom Ridge, Republican of Pennsylvania. "So much for reinventing government," he said. "We have another centralized approach."
Under the Administration's proposal, the money would flow through the newly established fund. The fund would be federally chartered and tax-exempt but would not be a Government agency and would not offer loan guarantees or otherwise make the Government liable for the failure of the new community lenders.
The development banks -- patterned on models like the South Shore Bank of Illinois or the Elk Horn Bank of Arkansas, both of which were often cited by President Clinton during the campaign -- would be expected to invest in some enterprises that traditional bankers might avoid.
The Federal fund would be able to contribute capital, issue grants, make loans, provide deposits and otherwise strengthen the financial underpinnings of the development institutions, according to a memorandum prepared for the Administration's Congressional briefing.
But if there is an equity investment, the fund would not be allowed to control the institution that is being assisted.
And the local institutions must make matching grants: $2 of private money for every dollar of Federal aid, except in the case of loans, where only the interest rate subsidy will have to be matched, dollar for dollar, with private aid.
There are already many kinds of financial institutions that would appear to qualify for aid under the Clinton plan, including loan funds that are nonprofit organizations rather than deposit-taking banks; housing organizations sponsored by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, a federally chartered nonprofit organization set up in 1978; and credit unions specializing in community development, sometimes with the help of a revolving loan fund administered by the National Credit Union Administration.
The Administration's program appears to some extent to favor federally insured institutions like banks, since they would be allowed as much as $5 million in direct aid. Uninsured financial institutions would be allowed no more than $1 million each.
Chris Lewis, who researches community credit issues for the Consumer Federation of America, said the emphasis on insured institutions might be one weakness of the plan, since other institutions might merit more assistance than ordinary banks.
"When does a helping hand turn into yet another bankers' handout?" he asked.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Congressional opposition to President Clinton's tax proposals, and a caption with the article, named the chief White House lobbyist incorrectly. He is Howard Paster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY BANKING AND CREDIT FUND ELK HORN BANK & TRUST CO (50%); BANK OF ILLINOIS IN CHAMPAIGN (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY BANKING AND CREDIT FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; URBAN AREAS; FEDERAL AID (US); CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); CREDIT UNIONS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (56%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); BOBBY L RUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1993



517 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 19, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Hewlett Net Tops Wall St. Expectations

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES

 BODY:
The Hewlett-Packard Company, propelled by its revitalized computer business, reported second-quarter earnings yesterday that surpassed Wall Street's highest expectations -- no small feat given the computer industry's recent financial doldrums.
Investors flocked to the company's shares, which rose $5.125 to close at $84.75 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, where Hewlett-Packard was the third-most-active stock. 
 The maker of computers and electronic equipment said second-quarter net income rose 7.4 percent, to $347 million, from $323 million a year ago. The earnings amounted to $1.38 a share, up from $1.27 a share a year earlier. Financial analysts' estimates for the quarter had ranged from $1.10 to $1.35 a share.
 
Revenues Set a Record
 Net revenues in the latest quarter were up 21 percent, to $5.1 billion, compared with $4.2 billion a year earlier. The latest quarter was the first in the company's history in which revenues exceeded $5 billion.
"This company is a monster company; so when they report these kinds of results, it's a stunner," said Laura Conigliaro, a Prudential Securities analyst, referring to Hewlett-Packard's size and diversity of products. Ms. Conigliaro reaffirmed her buy recommendation on the stock.
The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., said orders in all of its businesses -- computers, test and measurement equipment, medical products and components -- improved during the quarter and hit a record $5.4 billion, compared with $4.2 billion a year earlier.
The strongest growth came in computers, electronic components and medical products. Computer orders rose 33 percent, a broad-based resurgence that went beyond the continually popular high-speed HP Deskjet and HP Laserjet printers to include the company's personal computers, work stations, mini-computers and networking products.
Orders for medical products climbed 32 percent because of demand for electronic patient-monitoring and health-care information systems, while demand for telecommunications products pushed components orders up 33 percent.
"They've got two things going for them that their competitors don't," Ms. Conigliaro said. "They've got a lot of new products, and they have products in areas where the trends are their friends. For example, their printer business is very, very strong."
Despite the gains, Hewlett-Packard officials sounded a cautious note in assessing the future.
 
Caution From an Executive
 "We're pleased with the company's order strength and our product programs have never been more competitive," Lewis E. Platt, Hewlett-Packard's president and chief executive, said in a statement. "But we face a very mixed and uncertain economic environment, as well as intense competition and rapid change in our markets. We also believe that upward pressure on cost of sales is likely to continue."
Hewlett-Packard's cost of goods sold was 58.8 percent of net revenue. That was up from 53.6 percent a year earlier and 58.3 percent in the first quarter, because of competitive pricing pressures and manufacturing preparations for new products.
But analysts said that Hewlett-Packard was characteristically cautious and that the company's costs were well within industry norms.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Hewlett-Packard Co. (N)"

Qtr. to Apr. 30	1993	1992	%Ch	Rev.	5,096,000,000	4,183,000,000	 	Net inc.	347,000,000	323,000,000	 	Sh. earn	1.38	1.27	 	Sh. out.	253,000,000	254,000,000	 	6mo rev	9,669,000,000	8,046,000,000	 	Net inc.	608,000,000	b293,000,000	 	Sh. earn	2.41	1.15	 	Sh. out.	252,000,000	253,000,000	 	
 
b-After a charge in accounting of $332 million for the adoption of FAS No. 106.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $84.75
Up $5.125
 
(pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (97%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL
COMPUTERS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRINTER MFG (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: JONES, KATHRYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



518 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: BLUE CROSS CHIEF IS REPORTEDLY OUT

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH

 BODY:
Albert A. Cardone will step down as the head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the financially troubled insurer of 8.5 million New Yorkers, a state government official said yesterday.
Mr. Cardone's fate was determined yesterday at a meeting of Empire's board of directors, but the terms of his departure were not known. Mr. Cardone served as both chairman of the board and chief executive of the company, positions he has held since 1987. 
 His departure follows the most difficult period in the company's history. In the last two years, Empire has lost $250 million and its reserves have fallen far below the amount that state regulators consider safe. Last year, the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association put Empire on notice that it must improve its financial position or face ejection from the organization.
 
Statement Expected
 A statement from Empire was expected this morning, according to three board members who were at an unusual meeting that lasted into the evening yesterday. The board members declined to discuss what had happened at the meeting.
The state official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he was informed by a participant in the meeting that Mr. Cardone was leaving the company.
Throughout the late afternoon and evening, officials and board members gathered in Empire's executive offices on the 26th floor of the company's headquarters on Third Avenue in midtown Manhattan. Some passed reporters as they left the building, refusing to talk. A few hid their faces behind newspapers or books.
Spokesmen for Empire did not return repeated telephone calls last night, and a woman who answered the telephone at Mr. Cardone's home said he was not there.
Empire, the nation's largest nonprofit health insurer, provides medical insurance for people in 28 counties from the New York City area to Albany. It handles about $7 billion in claims for those clients.
In addition, Empire administers Medicare claims under two contracts with the Federal Government.
As the company's finances have worsened, Mr. Cardone has had to seek repeated rate increases from the state. Last December, the Insurance Department approved a 25 percent rate increase.
Mr. Cardone's stewardship of the company has come under attack in recent months on a variety of issues, including poor handling of Medicare claims, allegations of fraud brought by a major corporate customer and complaints of an autocratic management style.
His tenure has been marked by internal turmoil, and his blunt and confrontational style has angered many top executives. Dozens have quit or been forced out in recent years.
 
Cardone Is Faulted
 In recent weeks, the state insurance superintendent, Salvatore R. Curiale, has criticized Mr. Cardone for failing to keep the board informed about problems in the company. Mr. Curiale has urged that Mr. Cardone step down as chairman of the board if he is to continue as the company's chief executive.
Two developments this month have caused headaches for Mr. Cardone, and an official speculated that board members were angered that they learned about the problems in the newspaper, rather than from him.
One was that the Federal Government had notified Empire that its handling of $1.7 billion in Medicare claims for doctors' services was so poor for the last three years that Empire's contract for the processing might be canceled.
The other was that American Telephone and Telegraph had accused Empire of defrauding A.T.&T.'s medical benefits plan for nearly a decade by sending the company inflated hospital bills and pocketing the difference.
In March, The New York Times reported that Empire lost tens of millions of dollars over the last decade through a series of management mistakes, offered lucrative contracts to insiders and spent freely on management perquisites. Mr. Cardone receives $600,000 a year, travels first class and is provided with a chauffeur-driven Lincoln Town Car.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield organizations around the country are under increasing scrutiny for their management and spending practices. Congressional investigators, who in the last year have looked into the financial and business practices of several Blue Cross organizations, are now looking into whether management problems have played a role in Empire's recent losses.
Empire is the subject of an inquiry by the Senate permanent subcommittee on investigation, which has subpoenaed records from Empire and the New York State Insurance Department.
Mr. Cardone had said in recent interviews that Empire was shoring up its reserves and that by the end of the year it would meet criteria set by the national association and by the New York State Insurance Department.
Losing the Medicare contract, which Empire and its predecessors have held for decades, could cost the company $63 million.
 
Performance Criticized
 In a letter sent to Empire on April 27, the Health Care Financing Administration, which is part of the Department of Health and Human Services, sharply criticized the insurer and called some aspects of its processing of doctors' bills "abysmal."
Empire has fallen to 45th place in the financing administration's ranking of service provided by the 47 companies around the country that handle Medicare claims for doctors' bills. And it has dropped to 46th in the ranking of 51 handlers of Medicare claims for hospital bills.
The A.T.&T. charges were made in a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Newark, which A.T.&T. filed after Empire repeatedly blocked attempts by A.T.&T. auditors to examine Empire's records. The lawsuit also named six other Blue Cross organizations for which Empire handled billings.
The dispute between Empire and one of its larggest corporate clients comes at a time when the financially troubled nonprofit insurer is losing some of its best corporate customers to commercial insurance companies that offer lower rates and say they provide better service.
Michael Blumenfeld, a spokesman for Empire, said earlier this month that the fraud allegations were unfounded, and noted that Empire had agreed to permit A.T.&T. to examine its records.
The suit accuses the insurers of fraud and racketeering under provisions of Federal civil law and seeks an unspecified amount of damages from Empire and the other Blue Cross affiliates.
A.T.&T. has declined to say how much it believed it has been overcharged. But the fact that A.T.&T. has gone to court over the matter and the fact that the allegations cover nearly a decade indicate that the amount of money at stake is substantial.
 
Scrutiny Rises
 Last month, a long-awaited audit of Empire ordered by the state concluded that its management had been slow to react to accelerating changes in the insurance marketplace. Among other findings, the audit maintained that Empire trailed the rest of the industry in expanding its managed-care programs and in developing modern computer systems, both of which contributed to heavy losses in recent years.
But the audit, performed by Arthur Andersen & Company, maintained that Empire's poor financial performance had resulted primarily from economic forces beyond the control of management.
Empire officials said they were gratified by the audit's support for their contention that the company's losses of $250 million over the last two years were largely unavoidable. But the audit stopped far short of giving Empire's management a clean bill of health.
"In a dynamic, volatile health care market, Empire has been an autocratic, functionally organized, hierarchical organization that has been slow to react to the pace of change," the audit stated. "In an earlier era -- when the pace of change was slower and competition less intense -- Empire's culture and operating environment may have served it well. Today Empire is neither organized nor managed to become a market leader in innovation or quality improvement."
Mr. Blumenfeld, Empire's spokesman, said last month that the board would seriously examine all of the audit's recommendations, including the division of Mr. Cardone's responsibilities.
The larger issue may have been whether the board ultimately lost confidence in Mr. Cardone, who has become a lightning rod for criticism of the company. Mr. Curiale, the insurance superintendent, has said that Mr. Cardone is "his own worst enemy" and has created huge public relations problems for the company through what appears to many ratepayers as an extravagant corporate life style. He received a $60,000 retroactive pay raise in 1991, shortly after appealing to the state for a large rate increase, Mr. Curiale pointed out.
But the audit may have supported Mr. Cardone's case, to some extent. It dismissed as unjustified the recurring criticism of the company's salary levels and administrative expenses.
But the audit concluded that, "based on comparisons to various insurance executive compensation surveys, Empire's officer-compensation levels are reasonable." And with regard to travel and entertainment expenses, it found that "Empire's policies are stringent when compared to comparable private corporations and in fact may impair the ability of Empire's marketing and sales organization to compete in the larger group market."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Albert A. Cardone, who is said to be leaving Empire Blue Cross. (The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "HEALTH CARE: Blue Cross and Blue Shield in New York" shows rate increases in New York City and the actual amount of reserves as a percentage of the state-regulated reserve requirement from '86-'93. (Source: Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield) (pg. B4)
 
Chart: "BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD: Empire's Board of Directors"
 
Rev. Harry C. Barrett
Executive Officer, New York Medical College
Valhalla, N.Y.
 
Clifford Cohen, M.D.
Brooklyn, N.Y.
 
Anthony J. Grieco, M.D.
New York University Medical Center
 
John R. Gunn
Executive Vice President
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
 
Teresa C. Infantino
Executive Vice President
Combe Incorporated
White Plains, N.Y.
 
Stanley I. King Jr.
Chatham, N.J.
 
William T. Lee
Vice President, International Ladies Garment Workers Union
Local 132-98-102
 
Robert O. Lehrman
President, Community Bankers Association of New York State
 
Wesley R. Lietag
New Canaan, Connecticut
 
Edward J. Malloy
President, Building & Construction Trade Council
 
Michael S. Modell
Henry Modell & Company
Long Island City, N.Y.
 
Hugo Monnig Jr.
New York, N.Y.
 
Vincent O'Leary
Professor, School of Criminal Justice
University of Albany
 
James K. Patrick
Albany, N.Y.
 
Harold E. Vogt
President, County Chamber of Commerce
White Plains, N.Y.
 
Frederick D. Wilkinson Jr.
Mount Vernon, N.Y.
 
Robert D. Wilson
New York, N.Y.
 
Harold Wolchok
Assistant to President, Hotels, Hospitals, Nursing Homes & Allied Services Union Local 144
 
(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (84%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FINANCES; HEALTH INSURANCE TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (88%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); 

PERSON: FRITSCH, JANE; CARDONE, ALBERT A CHRISTIE HEFNER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



519 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON PUTS DOWN DEMOCRATIC REVOLT ON ECONOMIC PLAN

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
Backed by his party's Congressional leadership, President Clinton appeared today to have quelled a revolt by conservative Democrats in the House who had demanded more spending cuts, fewer taxes and caps on benefit programs like Medicare.
But some of the rebellious Democrats insisted, at least for public consumption, that the White House still lacked the votes to pass the President's economic package. And no sooner had the Democratic leadership declared the revolt among House Democrats over than a similar challenge began to take shape among a group of conservative Democrats and moderate Republicans in the Senate.
 
Boren Leads Dissent
 In what threatened to be a serious setback for the President, the bipartisan group, led by David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, reached agreement tonight on a plan to swing the Clinton budget sharply away from higher taxes and toward more spending cuts. 
 Their plan is to be announced Thursday at a news conference in the Capitol by Senator Boren and by Senator John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri.
Aides to the Senators said tonight that the bipartisan plan was not meant to scrap the Clinton budget, but to remove provisions that they see as insurmountable obstacles to its passage.
They said that the spending cuts in the Boren-Danforth plan would lead to greater deficit reduction, not simply replace revenues from proposed tax increases -- increases they hope to trim. The aides said the plan would "dramatically" increase the cuts in spending programs, particularly entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security, which would be capped.
 
Visit From Perot
 Such a coalition could pose a formidable challenge to the President's tax bill when it reaches the Senate Finance Committee, after its expected passage in the House next week.
While Mr. Clinton was trying to hold his Democratic coalition together, Ross Perot, the independent who has harried the Administration since it took office, was just down the hall telling a group of freshmen Republican Congressmen that the Clinton budget was the old "tax and spend, and that's not what the American people want."
Mr. Perot, who had been invited by the House Republicans to express his views, said Mr. Clinton's proposal to create a deficit-reducing trust fund was "the biggest hat trick in years." [Page A18.]
Only a few House Democrats had publicly declared their intention to vote against the President's program and were demanding a vote on a proposals to limit increases in Medicare benefits. But dozens more have said that the program is top-heavy with taxes and does not cut spending sufficiently.
With virtually all 176 House Republicans expected to vote against the tax bill next week, it would only take roughly 40 Democratic defections to give Mr. Clinton what would be a crippling defeat.
Clearly concerned about the potential for trouble, Mr. Clinton, who returned at 1 A.M. from a two-day Western trip, rushed to Capitol Hill less than nine hours later to rally support for his budget package in the House. After meeting with the Congressional Democratic Caucus and party leadership, the President held firm to his program, saying his budget already "does a lot of what they want."
He won a strong public show of support from the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, and the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine.
 
Talks to Continue
 After Mr. Clinton's morning meeting with House Democrats, Mr. Foley told reporters, "I think the caucus today indicated very strong support across the spectrum of our party in support of the President's program, and I think that there is a clear indication that we will pass the bill next Thursday."
Mr. Foley added, though, that there would be continued discussions with conservative factions of the party about "various means of insuring that the deficit is reduced," like controlling Medicare spending through Mr. Clinton's pending health-care proposals, or through some other more flexible spending cap that could be introduced outside the budget "in the future."
But for now, Mr. Foley quickly added that "we're going to go forward" with Mr. Clinton's proposed budget. "We have no plans at this point to change the basic program before it's voted on next week," he said.
 
Disagreement on Support
 Representative Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, who, along with Representative Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, led the conservative Democratic challenge, disagreed with Mr. Foley's vote count.
"The President was very good today," Mr. McCurdy said. "He may have helped a number of people make up their minds who were undecided. But my read is that unless there is a change on the entitlement cap, and some recognition that we need to work with the Senate on the energy tax, that the votes are not there. Every time I talk to people they say they are not going to vote for it."
Mr. McCurdy, who was removed as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee earlier this year by Mr. Foley after openly seeking a post in the Clinton Cabinet, added, "We are placed in the position of looking like rebels when most of us were the earliest supporters of Bill Clinton."
Under House rules, the leadership tightly controls whether an amendment altering the budget is brought to the floor for a vote, and with the Democratic leadership apparently backing the President, such a vote now seems highly unlikely. The Republicans and conservative Democrats together would not appear to have enough votes to make a serious challenge.
Representative Stenholm said after today's meeting with the President that he was not backing down and that he was going to continue to try to push his case because he believed it would actually help the President.
 
Few Will 'Go to Wall'
 He said that there were 60 to 80 House Democrats who shared his views, but he conceded that only "a smaller number" would really be ready to "go to the wall" and spurn the President. Mr. Stenholm said that he opposed the President's proposed energy tax, but that if he failed to get it killed he would still vote for the budget.
In the Senate, however, the Democratic leadership does not have such tight control as in the House, and the alternative Boren-Danforth proposal would present a major problem. Mr. Boren is a crucial swing vote on the Senate Finance Committee, where the Democrats hold only an 11-to-9 majority.
Mr. Boren and Mr. Danforth drew up the alternative budget in his office late today with Senators John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana; Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota; John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, and William S. Cohen, Republican of Maine. All but Mr. Cohen are members of the Senate Finance Committee.
It is not clear whether all members of the group fully support the Boren-Danforth proposals.
 
Standing by Energy Tax
 Asked about an alternative to his energy tax, Mr. Clinton told reporters after meeting House members: "Let me remind you that when Secretary Bentsen announced that we would support a deficit reduction plan that included an energy tax that would promote energy efficiency and environmental responsibility, that's when the interest rates started to drop. So I think we ought to stay there with it. I think it's a good part of the program, and I think we can pass it."
During the House caucus, one of the biggest fears raised by many Democratic Congressmen was that they would vote in favor of the energy tax in the House, pay a political price back home and then see Mr. Clinton compromise when the bill gets to the Senate in order to win Republican support. That, they feared, would leave them in the worst situation: having voted for an unpopular provision that the Republicans would be able to take credit for killing.
At one point Representative Charles Wilson of Texas told the President: "I don't like it, but I'll go out on a limb."
Participants in the meeting said Mr. Clinton responded, "If you'll go out on a limb, I'll go with you." The Democratic Congressmen erupted in applause and cheers, the participants said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a trip to Capitol Hill to bolster support for their economic package, President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore were joined by Senator George J. Mitchell, majority leader, and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BOREN, DAVID L (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); DAN BOREN (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (71%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



520 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: New Tally of World's Economies Catapults China Into Third Place

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
Saying that traditional measures underestimate the economies in developing countries, the International Monetary Fund has concluded that China's economy is more than four times as large as previously measured. That makes it the third largest, behind the United States and Japan.
The new study, to be released next week, also greatly increases estimates of the economies of India, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil and other developing countries. 
 Until now, most studies have measured each country's output by valuing its goods and services in dollars, using international exchange rates. Thus, if China's currency weakened, its economy appeared to shrink.
But in the new method, national output is calculated by what goods and services a country's currency will buy, compared with the purchasing power of other countries' currencies.
By this method, the I.M.F. found, China produced about $1.7 trillion in goods and services last year, far greater than most previous estimates of about $400 billion.
 
An Influence on Foreign Aid
 The recalculation means that China's economy, one of the fastest growing in the world, is just slightly smaller than Japan's -- and not No. 10, as previously calculated. It is less than half the size of the United States economy.
Many economists say the new calculation is long overdue and gives a much more accurate picture of the developing world's economy. The study could have far-reaching repercussions in international aid programs, where per-capital income is crucial in determining assistance.
If China's prodigious growth continues, the World Bank said, the combined economies of China, Hong Kong and Taiwan will be larger than the United States economy in less than a decade.
"The main importance of this is geopolitical," said Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It's a reminder that China is a great power already, which is something many people haven't quite grasped yet."
The new estimates, many economists say, will push policymakers to stop thinking of the world economy as having just three poles -- the United States, Europe and Japan -- and encourage them to add a fourth: China.
"You have over a billion people there, and even with per-capita income that's pretty modest, you have a pretty big overall economy and a growing market for imports," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics.
With China playing a larger role on the economic stage, some economists are wondering whether it should be invited to join the Group of Seven industrial democracies.
"China will have a very different viewpoint from the Group of Seven," said Mr. Bergsten. "It's a developing country; its per-capita income is just an eighth or so of that of the G-7 nations. Besides, China is neither industrial nor a democracy."
 
All That Non-Money Can Buy
 In its new study, the I.M.F. does not measure an economy's size in the traditional way, by translating the local-currency value of output into dollars. Instead, the fund uses purchasing-power parity, which compares currencies according to what they buy at home.
The measure looks at prices of a bundle of goods and services, including food, clothing, housing and transportation, using that yardstick to compare the total value of output in different countries.
Many economists favor this measure, noting that if a country's exchange rate drops 10 percent against the dollar, this should not automatically reduce the size of that nation's economy by 10 percent.
"It's a great triumph that the I.M.F. has made this change, because it gives a more accurate reflection of the world economy," said Robert Summers, an economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania, a leading authority on this measuring method. "Purchasing-power parity has long been the accepted method in the academic community. This measure helps change people's perception of the world, although we should remember that all the distended bellies are still there."
 
Car Is Not a Car Is Not a Car
 Some economists say they will still measure economies using current exchange rates because they they do not fully trust purchasing-power parity. They say it is hard to compare the value of goods in different countries, for instance, to weigh the value of a Chinese car with that of an American car, or of a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan with one in Beijing or Tokyo.
I.M.F. officials said they would now rely mostly on purchasing-power parity in measuring economies, but added that they would not abandon use of exchange-rate measures.
Using the fund's new measure, per-capita income in China was about $1,600 last year, compared with $370 using estimates based on exchange rates. Based on purchasing-power parity, per-capita income in the United States was $22,204 in 1991, the last year for which a range of comparable figures is available.
Using the new measure, India's economy soared in 1991 to $996 billion, the sixth largest, from $285 billion using exchange rates. India's per-capita income in 1991 was $1,150, rather than the $330 calculated using exchange rates.
World Bank economists apply the purchasing-power parity somewhat differently, and their estimate of China's total output is even higher than reckoned by I.M.F. The bank puts the figure at $2.2 trillion in 1990. If one allows for China's brisk growth over the last two years, its output reached $2.35 trillion in 1991 and the $2.6 trillion in 1992, pushing it past Japan to No. 2 position.
Using the new measure, the share of the developing world in global output almost doubled in 1991, to 34 percent, from 18 percent under the older reckoning.
Officials from some developing countries object to using purchasing-power parity because World Bank rules state that countries with annual per-capita income of more than $765 cannot qualify for loans under the most favorable terms, usually 35 years with no interest.
But the World Bank continues to measure economies by exchange rates, and officials said that if they adopted purchasing-power parity, they might have to raise the per-capita ceiling for cheap loans.
The new measure is contained in an annex to the I.M.F.'s World Economic Outlook, which was released in April. The annex, which is to be published next week, puts China's economy at more than 6 percent of worldwide output in 1990, the last year for which global figures are available, up from slightly under 3 percent in 1970. In comparison, the United States represented 22.5 percent of world output, Japan 7.6 percent and Germany 4.3 percent.
The former Soviet Union accounted for 8.3 percent of world output in 1990, but the annex gave no separate figures for Russia's economy.
After several years of internal debate, I.M.F. officials have begun using purchasing-power parity because they are convinced that traditional measures produced invalid results. For example, measuring output by exchange rates indicated that China's economy had shrunk to slightly less than 2 percent of global output, from slightly more than 2 percent two decades ago, even though its economy had grown twice as fast as the world economy.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "World of Money: 2 Ways of Counting"
 
A new study has altered the lineup of the world's largest economics, giving more weight to China and other developing countries. The study measures the value in 1991 of each nation's gross domestic product in terms of the purchasing power of its own currency at home, rather than the currency's value on international exchanges.
 
NEW: Purchasing-power parity
 
United States ----- 5.61 trillion
Japan -------------- 2.37
China -- 1.66
Germany - 1.25
France - 1.04
India -- 1.00
Italy -- 0.98
Britain -- 0.90
Brazil -- 0.79
Mexico -- .0.60
Canada -- 0.52
Spain -- 0.50
Indonesia -- 0.50
 
OLD: Exchange rate basis
 
United States -- 5.61 trillion
Japan -- 3.36
Germany -- 1.57
France - 1.20
Italy -- 1.15
Britain -- 1.01
Canada -- 0.58
Spain -- 0.53
Brazil -- 0.45
China -- 0.43
India -- 0.29
Mexico -- 0.25
Indonesia - 0.11
 
Measuring Per-Capita Income
 
Per-capita income for 1991 in each country according to the two different measures. Countries are ranked according to the new system.
 
NEW: Purchasing-power parity
 
United States ----- 22,204
Japan -------------- 19,107
China -- 1,450
Germany -19,500
France -18,227
India -- 1,150
Italy -- 16,896
Britain -- 15,720
Brazil -- 5,240
Mexico -- 7,170
Canada -- 19,178
Spain -- 12,719
Indonesia -- 2,730
 
OLD: Exchange rate basis
 
United States -- 22,204
Japan -- 27,132
China-- 370
Germany -- 24,585
France -- 21,022
India -- 330
Italy -- 19,911
Britain -- 17,596
Brazil -- 2,940
Mexico -- 3,030
Canada -- 21,537
Spain -- 13,508
Indonesia -- 610
 
Figures exclude the republics of the former Soviet Union.
 
(Sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, International Monetary Fund.) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); JAPAN (97%); INDIA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); INDONESIA (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (65%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); JAPAN (97%); INDIA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); INDONESIA (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



521 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
CHINA'S ECONOMY IS NO. 3
The International Monetary Fund has concluded that China's economy is more than three times larger than previously measured and is the world's third largest, behind the United States and Japan. A1
 
F.B.I. GETS DETAILS ON BUSH PLOT
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents have been told by an Iraqi being held in Kuwait that he led an attempt to assassinate former President George Bush last month on behalf of the Iraqi Government, American officials said. A1
 

POLITICAL CHANGES IN TURKEY
The election of Suleyman Demirel as President of Turkey this week after the sudden death of Turgut Ozal has thrown Turkey's political system off balance, reduced the country's regional influence and signaled an end to the three-decade-long grip on power of many of the nation's aging political leaders. A3
 
VISIBLE ROLE FOR RUSSIA
Taking its most visible international role since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia is trying to fill the policy vacuum left by President Clinton's decision to yield to European opposition and shelve his plan to bomb the Serbs and arm the Bosnian Muslims. A12
 
BOSNIAN SERBS AIR CONFIDENCE
Bosnia's Serbian nationalist leaders, in a mood of confidence, convened their self-proclaimed parliament in a ski hotel to formally ratify the results of a weekend referendum that overwhelmingly rejected the international peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina. A12
 
NEW PACT ON RUSSIAN AID DUE
As part of a stepped-up effort to speed aid to Russia, Moscow and the International Monetary Fund will announce an agreement in the next few days by which Russia will receive $1.5 billion in aid within the next few weeks in exchange for promising to slash its inflation rate, monetary fund officials and advisers to Russia said. A8
 
Police quelled Copenhagen rioting over European treaty. A6
 
Britain expected to approve treaty on European union. A7
 
A Colombia jet with 132 aboard crashed near Medellin. A8
 
U.S. recognized Government of Angola. A9
 
Eisenach Journal: Thuringia stresses its potential for tourism. A4
 
National A14-19, B9-10
 
CLINTON STEMS REVOLT
President Clinton appeared to quell a revolt by conservative Democrats who demanded that he replace the energy tax in his budget with more cuts in benefits. A1
 
The revolt quelled in the House still smolders in the Senate. A18
 
Ross Perot lobbied against Clinton's economic plan. A18
 
The Joint Chiefs warned of dire consequences of spending cuts. A16
 
The nominee for a top Justice post quit a golf club. A16
 
TRAVEL OFFICE IS SENT PACKING
The White House abruptly dismissed its entire travel office and asked the F.B.I. to investigate "gross mismanagement" and "very shoddy accounting practices." A1
 
CLINTON CLOSE TO JUSTICE CHOICE
The President has narrowed his list of possible Supreme Court nominees and should announce his choice within 10 days, aides said. A17
 
QUEST FOR A GAY-BAN COMPROMISE
News analysis: The debate over allowing homosexuals in the military is boiling down to two questions: Should they be allowed to serve openly? How open is open? B10
 
VITAMIN E AND HEART DISEASE
Two new studies strongly suggest that supplements of vitamin E can significantly reduce the risk of disease and death from fat-clogged coronary arteries. A1
 
ABORTION RIGHTS VICTORY IN HOUSE Abortion rights advocates won an important victory as a bitterly divided House committee approved a bill to ban most state restrictions on abortion. A14
 
SENATOR'S SELF-SPOOFING ADS
Senator Bob Krueger of Texas is trying to rejuvenate his lagging election campaign with a series of ads spoofing his lackluster image. A14
 
Janet Malcolm's husband testified in her libel trial. A19
 
The Washington City Council chairman has died. B9
 
Metro Digest B1
 
EMPIRE CHIEF TO STEP DOWN
Albert A. Cardone will step down as head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the financially troubled insurer of 8.5 million New Yorkers, a state government official said. He was chairman of the board and chief executive since 1987. A1
 
SUBURBS FROM BOOM TO BUST
For two decades, New Jersey has been reshaping the American suburb into a magnet for economic growth. But with a four-year recession that is proving deeper for this state than for any other, its grand suburban experiment has hit a roadblock. A1
 
PAYMENT WITHOUT THE WORK
The investment house owned by Gov. Jim Florio's chief aide and another Florio political associate earned more than one million dollars in three years even though the firm performed little underwriting work for the money, according to those who did business with it. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-12
 
Is there a place to sit on the front lines of design? C1
 
Afoot with John Guare. C1
 
Richter, move over for the tacky scale. C1
 
Clarifying list on lead in water. C2
 
Where to Find It C2
 
Currents C3
 
Home ImprovementC4
 
Parent & Child C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-22
 
Comeback of Robert Evans. C15
 
At Christie's in London, $11.8 million for an 1820's calculator. C20
 
Isaac Stern master classes. C15
 
Theater: "I Am a Man." C20
 
Music: INXS at the Academy. C15
 
20 hours of the same Satie. C16
 
Joe Lovano at the Vanguard. C22
 
Dance: Ballet from Montreal. C15
 
Books: New from Robert B. Parker and Andrew Vachss. C19
 
Sports B12-18
 
Baseball: Mets defeat Pirates and dismiss Torborg. B13
 
Yanks complete sweep of Twins. B13
 
Yanks' Tartabull is upbeat. B15
 
Basketball: Knicks preparing for the Bulls. B13
 
Bulls looking forward to series against Knicks. B16
 
Boxing: Ferugson wagers on . . . himself. B17
 
Columns: Rhoden on the Mets. B13
On Baseball B15
 
Golf: Whitman shares lead in Dodge Open. B17
 
Hockey: Isles' Hogue haunted by missed opportunity. B18
 
Kings defeat Leafs in Game 2. B18
 
Horse Racing: Prairie Bayou works out at Belmont. B17
 
Obituaries B11
 
Dr. Walter A. Wood, an explorer and a geographer.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Five Republican swingers.
 
'Yes' to Europe. But what kind?
 
Webster Hubbell and the clubs.
 
A guard who didn't guard.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Iraqgate giveaway.
 
Garrison Keillor: Proud salads and free spirits.
 
Anonymous: End the war in Bosnia -- peacefully.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (93%); TURKEY (92%); KUWAIT (92%); JAPAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); COLOMBIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ANGOLA (79%); 

STATE: THURINGEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (93%); TURKEY (92%); KUWAIT (92%); JAPAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); COLOMBIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ANGOLA (79%); THURINGEN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INFLATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); LOBBYING (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); APPROVALS (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); GOLF (69%); RIOTS (62%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (61%); RELIGION (51%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



522 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC PULSE: New Jersey;
New Jersey Slump: Go-Go Suburbs Went

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., May 16

 BODY:
For two decades, New Jersey has been reshaping the American suburb into a powerful magnet for economic growth. But with a four-year recession that is proving deeper for this state than for any other, its grand suburban experiment has hit a roadblock as wide as an 18-wheeler jackknifed across Interstate 80.
It was around Morristown, Parsippany, Secaucus, Edison, Princeton, Mount Laurel and other suburbs that developers and corporations, beginning in the 1970's, began transforming rural towns and sleepy bedroom communities into something much more diverse: places for people to pursue corporate careers, shop, dine out and raise their families far beyond the congestion and blight of the region's big cities.
 
'Models for the World'
 In Central and Northern New Jersey, office parks replaced farmland. Glittering shopping malls eclipsed suburban Main Streets. Thousands of workers began commuting from suburb to suburb instead of into New York City, Philadelphia, Newark and Trenton. 
 So dazzling was the growth of the new suburbs, most of them strung along New Jersey's interstate highway corridors, that they have emerged as textbook studies for urban analysts.
"They are models for the world," said a 1991 book, "Edge City: Life on the New Frontier," by Joel Garreau (Doubleday), which has found its way onto the shelves of planners, scholars and city officials. Analyzing suburban development around a dozen of the largest United States cities, it described New Jersey as Tomorrowland.
Now, tomorrow looks more like the morning after.
In Morristown, Ted Goodman, the town planning director, said a milestone was reached in May, when the monthly meeting of the town Planning Board was canceled for the first time in years. No one was seeking approval for a development.
"In the 1980's, there were so many applications that these meetings would go well past midnight," Mr. Goodman said. If they were to meet, Morristown's planners would probably discuss their problems with existing developments, not new ones.
There is the 16-story office tower, next to Morristown's 170-year-old Green, that was vacated in a corporate reorganization in 1991 by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Across the street is another reminder of the recession's toll -- the Macy's department store, Morristown's largest, which is due to close next month.
 
Scattered Growth
Exacts Fiscal Price
Even among New Jersey fastest-growing suburbs, commercial development has been postponed. And while no one is giving up on the state's "edge cities" as the focus of future growth, economists, business executives and government officials say the edge cities have done little to shield New Jersey from the recession and indeed may be prolonging it.
Experts say that long-term constraints on economic expansion in New Jersey's suburban business centers -- traffic congestion, inadequate sewer and water services, high housing costs and overburdened schools -- are only now catching up with the state. They may persist as obstacles even when the economy improves.
"Only so much can be accomodated in those towns," said Regina Armstrong, an economist for the Regional Plan Association, which analyzes land use and planning in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
For years the association has criticized the region's scattered patterns of business development: They fail to take advantage of existing rail links, destroy open space, force far too much traffic on narrow rural highways and move employment opportunites away from the urban centers.
"The infrastructure is not there," she said. "Growth opportunities in New Jersey have been restricted."
Some New Jersey business people agree. One is Robert Bildner, a 42-year-old entrepreneur who founded his salad and fruit company, RLB Food Distributors, in West Caldwell at the height of the boom in 1985.
In his first year, he said, the fledgling company found a ready market at the specialty foods counters of shopping malls, delicatessens and groceries that were springing up across New Jersey's suburbs. But eight years later, many of the same specialty counters no longer exist.
Although his company is a survivor, Mr. Bildner says the state's economic downturn has only worsened RLB's problems with high housing costs, forcing many of his employees to commute from Pennsylvania, and highway congestion that its delivery trucks battle each day.
"Everywhere you turn there is an obstacle to growth," he said. "I don't see a single thing in this business environment that is encouraging."
 
Optimists Call It
A Breathing Spell
To be sure, many people say the downturn of corporate expansion in New Jersey's growth centers may have opened up future opportunities when the economy strengthens. Some New Jersey towns are taking advantage of the slowdown to widen roads and add water hookups.
"The edge city lives," said Richard W. Roper, director of the Office of Economic and Policy Analysis of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. "These communities have become very important players in the New Jersey economy, and they will be the focus of future growth."
Most of the suburban business centers fared far better in the 1980's -- even after the onset of the recession in 1988 -- than other parts of the state, researchers at Rutgers University in New Brunswick found in a study late last year. Ranking job growth by townships and municipalities, it found that most of the 20 top performers were suburban or rural areas far removed from New York and Philadelphia.
Topping its list was Edison, which gained 20,166 jobs. Others among the top 10 were Franklin Township, Parsippany-Troy Hills, Mount Laurel, Morristown and Dover Township.
But since the beginning of 1990, as New Jersey has sunk deeply into recession, many of the fast-growing towns have changed course. Data from the New Jersey Department of Labor, available only up to last June, shows that Edison lost 2,600 jobs, Morristown lost 3,500 jobs and Dover Township lost 1,000 jobs.
 
The Other Side
Of What Goes Up
"It is probably the case that many of these communities will be poised for expansion when the economy picks up," said Joseph J. Seneca, a professor of economics at Rutgers. "For now, we are frozen in time."
Although experts differ over how much blame, if any, to assign to New Jersey's scattered patterns of suburban business, the state's recession is both persistent and deep. In April, when unemployment in New Jersey jumped to 9.1 percent from 8.3 percent, the state eclipsed California for the unhappy distinction of having the worst unemployment rate of any large industrial state.
During the heady growth of the last decade, New Jersey outpaced almost every other state in personal incomes, job growth and real-estate development. Now, most of the economic engines responsible for that growth are moving in reverse.
"Because the boom went higher, the bust is deeper and lasting longer," said Dr. Seneca. His research shows that New Jersey's recession has lasted 46 months, nearly four times as long as any other since World War II.
The biggest drag is among its chemical plants, auto assembly lines and machine shops and other manufacturers that have been in decline for decades. The process simply speeded up in the last four years. Federal data shows that New Jersey has lost 200,000 jobs since 1989, and 130,000 of the losses were in manufacturing.
 
Building for Tenants
That Never Arrived
The other major industrial decline was in construction, accounting for another 70,000 job losses since 1989 after a boom-and-bust cycle. Home building has slowed sharply and the construction of offices and shopping malls has collapsed.
Most of the overbuilding occurred along New Jersey's interstate highways, and in the same suburban growth centers that attracted the biggest waves of corporate expansion in the 80's, but where the growth has now stopped. Tenants that did not materialize included banks, insurance companies, electronics and telecommunications businesses, and securities firms.
The building binge of the 1980's left vast vacancies. According to Cushman & Wakefield, a real-estate concern, the office vacancy rate in March in Northern New Jersey, including Morristown, Parsippany and several other growth centers, was 25.2 percent, one of the nation's highest.
Economists say another problem has come in spite of the scattered patterns of business development. Because of its ties to New York City, where more than 250,000 New Jersyans still commute to work, many of the more affluent suburbs are dealing with a second recession on their eastern front.
Some New Jersey officials say the state's problems are an outgrowth of a boom in consumer spending that flowed into everything from new-car purchases to electronic toys, real-estate investment and corporate expansion.
 
'Flash in the Pan'
Or Business Saviors?
"There was no significant area of expansion that could be sustained," said Raymond L. Bramucci, the Commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Labor. "The growth of the 1980's was a flash in the pan."
A major question is whether the growing importance of New Jersey's suburban growth centers has been a fleeting economic windfall, or whether the business corridors that have taken shape along the interstates will, as many suggest, eventually emerge as saviors for the state.
Near Morristown, several edge cities lie along Interstate 287, where business people and municipal officials say they are confident economic expansion will resume sometime in the 1990's. But the recession shows few signs of lifting.
In Bridgewater, 20 miles south of Morristown along the interstate and at the intersection of three other major highways, a large shopping mall opened in 1989 after 10 years of planning. Town officials hoped it would provide a social and retail anchor for a community with no downtown.
The mall, Bridgewater Commons, has by many measures accomplished its mission, as was apparent to any visitor today. Thousands of shoppers trodded between such fashionable stores as Brooks Brothers and Laura Ashley.
But four years after it opened, not all is what was supposed to be in Bridgewater. A large Sheraton Hotel and two office towers, which the town approved to enhance the mall as its new downtown (and which were described in 1991 as being in place in "Edge City"), have not been built. They are among the hundreds of New Jersey real-estate ventures being postponed because of the recession.
 
Mall 'Waiting Out
The Economy'
The hotel and offices "are waiting out the economy," said Kurt Sullivan, the general manager of Bridgewater Commons. A more immediate concern, he said, is that sales by the mall's 165 stores, surprisingly robust during Christmas and earlier this year, have fallen over the last month.
"The jury is still out on whether this is just a glitch, or something bigger, with people reassessing the economy and concerned about their jobs," Mr. Sullivan said.
Elsewhere in New Jersey's edge cities, people debate whether they really want the robust expansion of the 1980's to return.
"The development has gotten way out of balance," said Thomas P. Frascella, the newly elected Mayor of West Windsor, which borders Princeton and is one of a string of communities along Route One in central New Jersey. That area was among the state's fastest-growing corporate centers in the 1980's.
West Windsor rewrote its zoning rules in 1979 to accomodate a surge of development, but less than half the amount of new office and commercial space it had anticipated was built before 1988, when all commercial development came to a halt.
But Mr. Frascella says residential developers have continued to build, even during the recession, and an influx of young families has overburdened the town's schools. As Mayor, he intends to promote West Windsor among office developers, but enact new laws to slow home building.
"Growth is not bad, but unmanaged growth has proven a problem here," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Building vacated by A.T.& T in Morristown, N.J. (Frank C. Dougherty) (pg. A1); "Everywhere youturn there is an obstacle to growth," said Robert Bildner, who founded his salad and fruit company, RLB Food Distributors, in West Caldwell, N.J., at the height of the boom in 1985. "I don't see a single thing in thie business environment that is encouraging." (Chet Gordon for The New York Times) (pg. B7)
 
Graphs: "MONEY MATTERS: A Deep Economic Downturn in New Jersey" shows employment and economic activity in New Jersey. (Source: New Jersey Department of Labor) (pg. B7)
 
Map/Diagram: "Where the Jobs Grew"
 
Suburban business centers were the focus of economic growth in New Jersey over the last decade. From 1982 to 1990, these 10 communities gained the most jobs.
 
1. Edison: 20,166
2. Atlantic City: 18,959
3. Secaucus: 17,930
4. Franklin Township: 12,675
5. Parsippany-Troy Hills: 12.109
6. Mount Laurel Township: 11,705
7. Morristown: 10,592
8. Jersey City: 9,359
9. Dover Township: 9,321
10. Evesham Township: 7,909
 
(Sources: New Jersey Department of Labor and Rutgers University) (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (52%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION SUBURBS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); RETAILERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



523 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

EMPIRE CHIEF IS LEAVING
Albert A. Cardone will step down as the head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the financially troubled insurer of 8.5 million New Yorkers, a state government official said. Mr. Cardone's fate was determined at a meeting of Empire's board of directors, but the terms of his departure were not known. Mr. Cardone served as both chairman of the board and chief executive of the company, posts he has held since 1987. A1.
 
RECESSION SETTLES IN SUBURBS
For two decades, New Jersey has been reshaping the American suburb into a powerful magnet for economic growth. But with a four-year recession that is proving deeper for this state than for any other, its grand suburban experiment has hit a roadblock as wide as a semi-trailer jack knifed across Interstate 80. A1.
 

MUCH MONEY AND LITTLE WORK
The investment house owned by Gov. Jim Florio's chief aide and another Florio political associate earned more than $1 million in three years even though the firm performed little underwriting work, and in some cases none at all, for the money, according to Wall Street executives, lawyers and government officials who did business with it. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
ELECTION RESULTS
Overshadowed in the community school board races by citywide battles over sex education and school corruption were a series of other, local clashes, many of them about ethnic transition. And from the election results -- which remained incomplete -- a mosaic of gains and losses for minority candidates is emerging. B3.
 
COUNCILMAN CHARGED WITH ASSAULT
Councilman Rafael Castaneira-Colon, a veteran Bronx lawmaker, was arrested and charged with assaulting a woman with whom he has a daughter in a dispute over child-support payments, the police said. At 8 A.M., Mr. Colon, who is 57, surrendered to the police with his lawyer, Murray Richman, at the 43d Precinct, in Soundview. B3.
 
REGION
 
CASINO VOTE IS NEAR
With five days left before the first vote in the Connecticut House of Representatives on whether to legalize a gambling casino for Bridgeport, the measure is still considered a long shot. But a new round of maneuvering in the Capitol has made the question suddenly more volatile. B6.
 
AN OUTSIDER'S CAMPAIGN
For years J. Patrick Gilligan has been telling anyone who would listen how New Jersey's tax system should be overhauled. He said he won praise from some fellow Republicans but no action and that is why, at the age of 72, he is running for governor. "People would listen and promise to bring my ideas before the state party leadership and the Legislature but they never did," he said. "Going through channels hasn't worked, so I'm going right to the people."B6.
 
MINIMUM WAGE STUDY RELEASED
A new study by two labor economists at Princeton University on the effect of a higher New Jersey minimum wage on employment in the state's fast-food restaurants. B7.
 
Traffic Alert B2
 
Chronicle B8

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Hotel Rates" shows the average daily rates at two kinds of Manhattan hotels in the first quarter of '92 and '93. (Source: Coopers & Lybrand)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); SUBURBS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LAWYERS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLITICS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); CASINOS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); SEX EDUCATION (65%); CORRUPTION (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ARRESTS (64%); GAMING (61%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



524 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Hurdles for Tax Plan;
Sailing May Turn Smooth in House, But Rough Seas Lie Ahead in Senate

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
President Clinton was able to win support for his tax proposals from Democratic members of the House of Representatives at their meeting in the Capitol this morning because he allayed their worst political fears.
But the flame of opposition he managed to extinguish in the House was a precursor to the serious problems his program faces in the Senate. Unlike the situation in the House, where Mr. Clinton was on firm footing from the start, the rules, style and committee structure in the Senate work to his disadvantage. 
 In public, the opposition of some conservative Representatives to the President's tax plan was generally expressed in substantive terms. Some lawmakers said they wanted deeper cuts in spending and limits on what could be spent on programs, like Medicare and food stamps, in which payments are automatically made to everyone who meets eligibility requirements. Other lawmakers objected to a particular tax, especially the one on fuel, which would hit some industries hard and pinch middle-class families.
 
Fears of Political Risks
 But underlying the substantive opposition were political fears. Rank-and-file Democrats were nervous that the President's plan would not end up actually lowering the deficit. They were even more concerned that they would cast a courageous vote in Mr. Clinton's behalf, and he would then cut a deal in the Senate that undercut those who risked supporting him in the House.
In either case, they foresaw having to defend unpopular votes to raise taxes in their re-election campaigns.
Mr. Clinton's political advisers had spotted the problem, and he dealt with it head on this morning, lawmakers said. This time, he told the Democrats, they would not face what Representative Martin Olav Sabo, the Minnesota Democrat who heads the Budget Committee, calls "the 1990 problem." Pains were taken, Mr. Clinton said, to make sure that his economic projections were not optimistic and that the deficit really would go down.
 
Memories of 1990
 In 1990, after tortuous negotiations, President George Bush and Congressional leaders agreed on a plan of unpopular tax increases and spending cuts that were supposed to lower the deficit by nearly $500 billion over five years.
Unfortunately, no account was taken of the recession that would reduce tax revenues and drive up costs for programs like welfare and unemployment compensation. As a result, while the deficit was indeed smaller by the time of the 1992 election than it would have been in the absence of the budget agreement, it was no lower in terms of actual dollars. That proved to be acutely embarrassing to many politicians, and contributed to the defeat of Mr. Bush and some lawmakers.
The fear that Mr. Clinton would sell Democrats down the river after they supported him with politically risky votes resulted from some cases earlier this year. In one instance, Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Interior Committee, persuaded fellow Westerners to back the President's proposal to raise fees for grazing and mining on Federal lands. No sooner had they voted to do so than the President withdrew the proposal in the face of opposition from a few Western Senators.
Representative Charles Wilson, Democrat of Texas, said today that voting for a higher tax on fuel would be difficult for him because of the large petrochemical industry in his district. What worried him most, he said, was that he would stick by the President and that Mr. Clinton would then "cut our feet out from under us by compromising with the Senate." Then, he said, Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, would "go home and say, 'Charlie taxed you, but I saved you.' "
Mr. Clinton apparently persuaded the lawmakers that if they went out on a limb, he would not abandon them.
 
Different Situation in Senate
 Such political stroking may not be sufficient in the Senate.
In both the House and the Senate, Republicans are united against the President's program. So Mr. Clinton must rely on Democratic votes alone. And the Democratic majorities are similar -- 59 percent of the seats in the House and 57 percent in the Senate are held by Democrats.
But the House is run by a handful of Democratic generals. All the rest of the members are foot soldiers. Occasionally, one of the troops gets out of line the way Representatives Timothy J. Penny of Minnesota, Charles W. Stenholm of Texas and Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma have this week. When that happens, the rest of the Democrats normally march over them in lock-step.
In this case, Mr. Clinton's tax bill was written by Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois and the other Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee. It would have been futile for one or two of them to break ranks, since the Democrats hold a 24-to-14 majority.
So the measure was approved by the committee last week on a straight party-line vote. And it will almost certainly be voted on by the House next week under procedures set by the Democratic leadership that prohibit or strictly limit amendments. For the bill to go down, about 40 Democrats would have to join with the Republicans, and that is not likely to happen.
 
Unwieldiness of Senate
 The Senate is much more unwieldy. Although the rules on this particular legislation preclude a filibuster like the one by Republicans that killed Mr. Clinton's jobs and stimulus bill last month, the President is starting off in a hole.
There are no foot soldiers in the Senate. Senators march to their own individual beats. In point of fact, there are probably a dozen Democratic Senators who genuinely believe that they and not Bill Clinton should be President. And amendments in the Senate are basically unrestricted.
In addition, the committee ratios in the Senate are much narrower. On the Finance Committee, which handles tax legislation, the Democratic margin is only 11 to 9, meaning that if only one Democrat defects, the bill goes down.
Three of the Democrats on that committee -- David L. Boren of Oklahoma, John B. Breaux of Louisiana and Kent Conrad of North Dakota -- have announced that they oppose one main part of the Clinton bill or another. Mr. Clinton will at the least have to make some concession to bring them around.
This afternoon, these three Senators met with some Republicans to see if they could put together a bipartisan alternative to Mr. Clinton's proposals. This is not a particularly unusual occurrence in the Senate. It would be unheard of in the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); FAMILY (67%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



525 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: COMMENCEMENTS;
Columbia Chief Stresses Role of Teacher

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
Delivering his 13th and final commencement address, Michael I. Sovern, Columbia University's president, called on America's universities yesterday "to tilt the balance back toward teaching" as they wrestle with fiscal problems and strive to fulfill responsibilities in research and public service.
"Our best universities must all acknowledge that we cannot continue to increase the price of a college education and deliver less of the faculty our students' tuition dollars are supporting," said Mr. Sovern, who will step down as Columbia's 17th president on June 30 to return to teaching at Columbia's law school. 
 As students created a blizzard of confetti, streamers and graduation caps, Mr. Sovern conferred nearly 8,000 degrees in commencement exercises for the university's 15 schools and its affiliated institutions, Barnard College and Teachers College.
 
Stephanopoulos Honored
 About 33,000 people attended the commencement ceremony, which was held on the broad plaza of Low Memorial Library on the Morningside Heights campus in upper Manhattan.
Jubilant students, dressed in slate-blue gowns, cheered not only themselves but also George Stephanopoulos, the White House communications director and a 1982 graduate of Columbia College, who received the University Medal for Excellence.
The students also became the chorus for Harry Belafonte, the entertainer and human-rights leader, who was one of eight recipients of honorary degrees. Mr. Belafonte roused the graduates into a sing-along of his 1950's hit "The Banana Boat Song (Day-O)."
In a poignant moment, Arthur R. Ashe Jr., the champion athlete and social advocate, was awarded a posthumous honorary doctor of laws degree. The award was accepted by his widow, Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe, who received a standing ovation.
The other honorary degree recipients were: Mary Robinson, the President of Ireland; Susan Sontag, the essayist, novelist and social critic; Gary S. Becker, the Nobel Prize-winning economist; Seymour Milstein, a business leader and philanthropist; Gilbert Stork, a chaired chemistry professor at Columbia, and George E. Rupp, the president of Rice University, who will succeed Mr. Sovern as president of Columbia.
 
540 Graduate From Barnard
 In a separate graduation ceremony for Barnard College, 540 students received undergraduate degrees on Tuesday. Ellen V. Futter, the Barnard president, gave the commencement address. Cyrus R. Vance, a former Secretary of State and United Nations Special Envoy, was among five people to receive a Medal of Distinction, the college's highest honor.
The other recipients were Mr. Ashe; Dr. Elizabeth Davis, the founder of the Harlem Hospital Center's department of psychiatry and a community mental health advocate; Bette Bao Lord, an author and human rights advocate, and Helene L. Kaplan, an attorney, public servant and chairman of the Barnard College Board of Trustees for a decade until 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; BARNARD COLLEGE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; BARNARD COLLEGE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (74%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); WRITERS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); PSYCHIATRY (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (56%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, LYNDA; SOVERN, MICHAEL I; FUTTER, ELLEN MICHAEL IRA 'MICHAEL I' SOVERN (93%); GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



526 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Perot Joins With House G.O.P. in Attacking Clinton

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
Ross Perot lent his voice to the Congressional rebellion against President Clinton's economic plan today, visiting with freshman House Republicans and embracing their cause as his own.
Opinion polls show that the public holds Congress in low regard, and Mr. Perot has visited Capitol Hill several times since the Presidential election to express his own complaints. But today he saved his sharpest barbs for the man who defeated him in November, delivering them at a news conference made all the more provocative by Mr. Clinton's presence one marble staircase away. 
 Surrounded by more than a dozen admiring freshman Republicans, Mr. Perot mixed dollops of advice with stinging sarcasm as he criticized Mr. Clinton's handling of everything from Bosnia to the Treasury. He called the President's economic package "tax and spend," characterized his proposed deficit-reduction trust fund as "the biggest hat trick in years" and warned that the coming health-care plan would be "a nationwide failure."
Mr. Perot had accepted an invitation from the Republican freshmen days before the President decided to travel down Pennsylvania Avenue to rein in his troops. But once their paths had crossed, Mr. Perot clearly enjoyed competing with Mr. Clinton for attention. The former independent Presidential candidate had been invited to endorse the Republicans' efforts to overhaul Congressional procedures and to enact a line-item veto. The President showed up to deal with challenges from conservatives in his own party that echoed Mr. Perot's own crusade against the deficit.
 
3-Step Program Offered
 Mr. Perot outlined a three-part elixir for the Administration's woes: "Step 1: Get Organized. Fill the slots so you can begin to govern. No. 2: Focus. Do a few things well. And No. 3: Don't fall into the Washington trap of watering everything down like your campaign reform bill."
Lawmakers were divided over the impact of Mr. Perot's visit. Representatives Gerald D. Kleczka, Democrat of Wisconsin, and Marge Roukema, Republican of New Jersey, said Mr. Perot's effect had been blunted by his failure to offer alternative programs.
Representative Timothy J. Penny of Minnesota, a conservative Democrat who is pressing Mr. Clinton for additional budget cuts and a cap on Medicare and Social Security spending, said Mr. Perot's visit might help his efforts to rework the President's package.
"He turns up the heat a little bit," Mr. Penny said. "He reinforces the image with the public that the President's plan is not serious enough."
Representative Howard P. (Buck) McKeon of California expressed hope that the publicity generated by Mr. Perot's meeting with almost all of the 48 party members of his class would help them build a coalition with conservative, reform-minded Democratic freshmen.
Their invitation to Mr. Perot, Mr. McKeon added, was evidence that they would continue to "break the rules to change Washington."
So far, the Republican freshmen have been stymied because they are a minority inside a minority.
Nevertheless, the Republican freshmen won an intraparty battle to put their party on record for term limits for ranking committee members. They also led the fight to abolish four select committees to save money.
Mr. Perot stopped short of endorsing the Republican freshmen's entire 19-point plan, which would impose term limits and sharp cuts in spending on Congressional operations.
Declaring their fight his own, Mr. Perot said he agreed with their prescription of "let's do chemotherapy" to cure the ills on Capitol Hill. He criticized the seniority system and House procedural rules as undemocratic, saying they are applied by Democratic leaders to throttle the power of backbenchers and the Republican minority.
 
Vow to Spread a Message
 Mr. Perot asked the Republicans to prepare a videotape describing their criticisms of House procedures. He offered to refine the video after showing it to focus groups, and then circulate it around the country.
More senior Republican lawmakers have voiced concerns that Mr. Perot would field third-party Congressional candidates in 1994 who could split their constituency and help elect more Democrats. Mr. Perot said today that he would not support any third-party candidates -- unless neither of the Congressional contenders of the two major parties supported sweeping reforms.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot after meeting yesterday with freshman Republicans. He endorsed their rebellion against the Clinton economic plan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); MEDICARE (60%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



527 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
The Dow jumped 55.64 points to a record high of 3,500.03 in a day of wild trading that turned up sharply after interest rates declined and the day's rise in gold prices halted. [D1.]
Treasury prices rallied in the afternoon after the Fed gave no signal that it would tighten interest rates to stem inflation. [D1.] 
 Gold prices retreated from a two-year high as traders took profits. [D20.] The dollar ended broadly lower. [D20.]
 
The Economy
The trade deficit ballooned in March to $10.21 billion, the widest gap in nearly four years. Imports grew sharply while exports increased slowly, suggesting the buyers' belief that the U.S. economy would grow faster than others. [Page D1.] A new trade policy calling for immediate talks with Japan is said to be near. [D2.]
President Clinton appeared to have quelled a revolt by conservative House Democrats over his economic plan, but some Senate Democrats expressed opposition to the proposed energy tax. [A1.]
The suburban growth that sustained New Jersey's economy for two decades has hit a roadblock. [A1.] The state's high minimum wage has not deterred hiring significantly, a study shows. [B7.]
 
Companies
Humana is changing course sharply, having been battered by criticism from doctors, patients and insurers, skeptical investors and sweeping changes in health care. [D1.]
Armacon Securities, the investment house owned by an aide and an associate of New Jersey Governor Florio, earned more than $1 million in three years though it did little underwriting. [A1.]
Eastman Kodak's former finance chief, Christopher J. Steffen, will become a top executive at Citicorp in June. [D1]
Citizens Utilities will pay GTE $1.1 billion for more than 200 local phone networks in 10 states. [D4.]
Imcera plans a major revamping of its troubled animal health-care subsidiary, which is likely to cause a loss for fiscal 1993. [D4.]
Liggett Group hired a former R.J. Reynolds chairman, Edward A. Horrigan Jr., as its chairman and chief executive. [D4.]
I.B.M. changed the pricing method for some mainframe software, resulting in lower prices for many customers. [D4.]
Mirage Resorts and Governor Weicker of Connecticut traded accusations in the battle over casino gambling in the state. [B6.]
Baseball's financial arrangement with the networks may turn risky if an ad venture with ABC and NBC is approved. [D22.]
 
International
An I.M.F. study shows that China's economy is more than three times larger than previously measured and is the world's third largest, behind the United States' and Japan's. [A1.]
The European unity treaty is expected receive British House of Commons approval today and full ratification by fall. [A7.]
Russia is expected to get $1.5 billion in I.M.F. aid in exchange for promising to slash its inflation rate [A8.]
A Japanese corporate raider who was a symbol of the excesses of the 1980's received a light sentence in a stock scheme. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Washington's ability to set industrial policy may be waning as the principle is gaining favor. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Investors wanting to play the cruise ship industry now have one more stock to choose from. Market Place. [D8.]
Stein Robaire Helm, an agency that has drawn praise on the West Coast, is getting attention in the East. Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); GOLD MARKETS (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INSURANCE (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CASINOS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (62%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (62%); SUBURBS (52%); MINIMUM WAGE (51%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (50%); GAMING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); PAULA G ROSPUT REYNOLDS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



528 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Finance Officer Who Quit Kodak Will Join Citicorp

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Christopher J. Steffen, whose efforts to streamline the Eastman Kodak Company ended abruptly with his resignation last month, will become a top executive at Citicorp in June, responsible for making the nation's largest banking company more efficient and more profitable.
Mr. Steffen will join Citicorp's six-member management committee as a senior executive vice president and will also be nominated to the board, John M. Morris, a Citicorp spokesman confirmed last night.
 
 
2d Recruitment Try
 John S. Reed, Citicorp's chairman and chief executive, tried to recruit Mr. Steffen before he joined Kodak earlier this year, Mr. Morris said. Mr. Reed resumed his efforts after Mr. Steffen resigned as Kodak's chief financial officer. 
 Mr. Morris said Mr. Steffen, who has a reputation as a tough assets manager, would be responsible for improving the productivity of Citicorp's internal operations. With intense competition among banks, profitability has become more dependent on speed and economy in handling deposits, checks, funds transfers and computer operations.
"We've come through a two-year program in which we reduced costs by $1.3 billion" a year, Mr. Morris said. "We are now poised to make what had been a crash diet a way of life."
 
 
An Industrial Background
 Mr. Steffen's background is industrial, not financial, and Mr. Reed has said that he wants to bring industrial management skills to Citicorp.
Another executive at Citicorp suggested that the company's board, which met Tuesday, had urged the hiring of Mr. Steffen. The Citicorp board includes Colby H. Chandler, a former Kodak chief executive who has remained on the Kodak board.
Mr. Steffen, 51, was hired by Kodak in January to the loud applause of Wall Street, which remembered his record of shaping up operations at Honeywell Inc. and Chrysler. As a result, investors added billions of dollars to Kodak's market value as they bid up the stock, which had lagged the market for years.
But on April 28, the stock fell nearly 10 percent, losing more than $1.5 billion in market value, after Mr. Steffen's resignation was announced. His departure followed a dispute with Kodak's current chief executive, Kay R. Whitmore, over the pace of the cutbacks and other changes that Mr. Steffen had demanded.
Since then, Mr. Whitmore, under pressure from major shareholders, has pledged to carry out many of these measures himself.
 
 
Abrasive Ways
 It remains to be seen whether Mr. Steffen, known for his abrasive ways, can better fit into the Citicorp culture.
Mr. Steffen could not be reached for comment last night. A Christopher Steffen registered at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan did not answer telephone calls or return messages left for him.
Citicorp plans to announce Mr. Steffen's hiring this morning and have him meet with other top executives of the company.
Citicorp's drastic cutbacks have helped the company's stock recover from sharp losses in recent years, with its price plunging as low as $8.50 in December 1991. Yesterday, the stock closed at $28.25, up 75 cents for the day, but still below its all-time high of $35.375 in October 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); HON (NYSE) (65%); HON (LSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (65%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITICORP; EASTMAN KODAK CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITICORP; EASTMAN KODAK CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; STEFFEN, CHRISTOPHER J ANN LIVERMORE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



529 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Off Balance as Death Ends a Long Rivalry

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, May 19

 BODY:
The election of Suleyman Demirel to the presidency this week after the sudden death of Turgut Ozal in April has thrown Turkey's political system off balance, reduced the country's regional influence and signaled an end to the three-decade-long grip on power of many of the nation's aging political leaders.
"This opens up a new political era," a Western diplomat said. "The dramatic removal of Mr. Ozal from the political scene has ended the confrontation between Mr. Ozal and Mr. Demirel that has defined the political process for years. It has removed the country's two most important politicians from the daily political process and, since neither man prepared a successor, created a degree of instability and confusion." 
 The public battles between President Ozal and Mr. Demirel, who was Prime Minister for the last 18 months, were as much a clash of personalities as policies. While the blunt and often abrasive Mr. Ozal championed broad, expansive schemes to link the country to the central Asian republics and establish close ties with Europe and the United States, Mr. Demirel has always preferred the crafty internal political maneuvering that makes him a consummate deal maker.
Few expect the new President, who took office in a quaintly anachronistic ceremony that included a top hat, white tie and tails, to remove himself completely from politics. But at 68, associates say, he is tired and wants to dedicate the final years of his public life to strengthening the democratic system.
 
President's Only Concern
 "President Demirel wants to make sure the office of the presidency is placed above politics, and he believes this was not always the case in the past," said Akin Gonen, a Cabinet minister and close associate. "This is the only thing that concerns him now."
Much of what Mr. Ozal began -- market reforms, the safeguarding of freedom of expression and respect for human rights -- still falls short of European and American standards. The Government's bill on judicial practices, approved last year and intended to safeguard the rights of defendants, has yet to extend to cases involving terrorism.
Human rights groups continue to charge that the security forces in the southeast, where a state of emergency remains in place to combat attacks by Kurdish rebels, engage in torture and extrajudicial detentions. There is currently a cease-fire between the Government and the rebels.
Mr. Demirel, a conservative, has repeatedly bounced back from political obscurity to prominence. In three decades of political life he headed seven governments. He was deposed by military coups in 1971 and 1980. But his election by the Parliament on Sunday to a seven-year term as President, with 244 of 450 votes, was undoubtedly his greatest triumph. As he was sworn into office, military chiefs, some of whom once plotted against him, watched mutely from the balcony in the chamber.
"This is a victory for democracy," an exuberant Mr. Demirel said.
 
Final Link Is Broken
 But while the loss of Mr. Ozal, who collaborated with the military Government that took power in 1980, cuts the final link between the current political leaders and the old military Government, it also takes from Turkey its greatest visionary since Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder and head of modern Turkey until 1938.
Turkey has also lost much of its importance to the West with the end of the cold war, a fact that seems to have been more quickly accepted by Mr. Demirel than his predecessor. Turkey is no longer a front-line outpost against Soviet expansion or as important a staging area for NATO. Germany is phasing out its military aid and the United States, which gives $450 million a year, is expected to cut back its allocations.
Mr. Ozal died of a heart attack on April 17, shortly after returning from a punishing trip to the central Asian republics. He hoped these would one day fall under Turkish influence, making his country, as he liked to say, the most prominent power "from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China."
 
The Reluctant Republics
 He was working to establish a vast network of highways, railroads, oil and gas pipelines, and telecommunications systems, as well as trade and cultural links, that would bind the republics to Turkey.
Although he had lost his political mandate after Mr. Demirel's True Path Party defeated his Motherland Party at the polls in 1991, Mr. Ozal continued to advocate a more aggressive foreign policy. The former President, who backed the coalition effort against Iraq, called for Turkish military action in Bosnia and Herzegovina and along Turkey's borders to stop Armenian attacks against Azerbaijan.
Mr. Ozal frequently used his office to delay legislation and major appointments he did not support, provoking angry denunciations from the Prime Minister.
These grand schemes now have few champions, especially as Turkish leaders have discovered that many of the republics are not as keen as they are to forge ties, and that the infrastructure, after 70 years of Soviet ineptitude, is too devastated to rebuild with Turkish resources alone.
Mr. Demirel's Government did grant $1.1 billion in credits to the central Asian republics, and was negotiating with Kazakhstan to extend an oil pipeline from Baku to the Turkish port of Iskenderun, but he was always unwilling to take part in Mr. Ozal's empire building.
During his time as Prime Minister, Mr. Demirel ignored the flamboyant demands of the President, refusing, for example, to go beyond the restrictions imposed on Bosnia by the United Nations. His Government also worked with the United States and Russia to seek a negotiated settlement to the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict.
 
'A Classical Tactician'
 But his pragmatism and emphasis on domestic affairs worries many Western diplomats, who had hoped that Turkey would become a counterweight to Iran in the region.
"The country has lost in Mr. Ozal an original mind and a unique thinker, who had a boldness and a vision that was rarely seen in modern Turkey," a Western diplomat said, "and what Turkey is left with is a classical tactician who focuses on short-range political goals."
There are serious domestic problems, ranging from a 60 percent inflation rate and large, inefficient state-controlled industries, to continuing friction with the Kurdish minority in southeastern Turkey. The budget deficit increased to $3.2 billion in the first quarter of 1993, or more than half of the Government's total deficit target for this year. And labor unions say they will demand annual salary increases exceeding 100 percent for more than 500,000 employees in the public sector, whose two-year contracts are scheduled to expire this year.
 
Municipal Elections Awaited
 While Turkey had the highest growth rate, 5.9 percent, in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, its population of 60 million is growing by 2 percent a year. And the flight from rural areas to the urban centers, which saw the proportion of people living in the cities jump from 53 percent to 59 percent from 1985 to 1990, has created masses of idle laborers and a black market economy that escapes taxation.
The coalition Government, widely attacked for failing to adhere to election promises, will face nationwide municipal elections next March. General elections are scheduled for 1996.
The Social Democrat Party, headed by Erdal Inonu, which holds power with Mr. Demirel's True Path Party, is expected to see its mandate reduced, perhaps endangering the coalition, Western diplomats say.
The True Path Party holds 182 seats in the 450-member assembly. The Motherland Party has 94 seats, the Social Democrats have 54 and the religious Islamic Welfare Party has 40. The rest of the seats are held by smaller parties or independent candidates.
Many Western diplomats expect the economic frustration to translate into gains for the Islamic Welfare Party, which has already begun a sophisticated and well-coordinated campaign.
On taking office Sunday, Mr. Demirel promised the country that political and economic reforms would be a priority.
 
Corruption Called Prevalent
 But the country's political system, fragmented by 10 warring political parties, is often paralyzed by indecision. Parliamentary debates are sparsely attended and Western diplomats say the Government remains riddled with corruption.
The removal of Mr. Demirel and Mr. Ozal, and many of their close associates, from the daily political life of the country is expected to give new, younger political leaders an opportunity to exercise power. But some diplomats worry that the process, which could take months if not years, could see Turkey's external influence wane and the economic problems grow.
The True Path Party will meet in June to choose a new Prime Minister, and the Motherland Party, founded by Mr. Ozal, has begun a resurgence. But none of the names touted as possible successors to the two men have yet to capture the imagination of the public.
"The country must redefine itself," a European diplomat said. "The problem is that if this takes too long Turkey's many problems, from the economy to the unrest along its borders, could all swing out of control."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suleyman Demirel in Ankara after becoming Turkey's President. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Turkey showing location of Ankara.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TURKEY TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TORTURE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COUPS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (62%); TERRORISM (60%); 

PERSON: DEMIREL, SULEYMAN (PRES); OZAL, TURGUT (PRES); HEDGES, CHRIS SULEYMAN DEMIREL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



530 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: As Casino Vote Nears, Jockeying Intensifies

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 19

 BODY:
With five days left before the first vote in the House of Representatives on whether to legalize a gambling casino for Bridgeport, the measure is still considered a long shot.
But a new round of maneuvering in the Capitol in the last 24 hours has made the question suddenly more volatile, and legislators on both sides said that no one should rule out large shifts of votes and further changes in tactics as the final hour nears. 
 On Tuesday, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the state's leading opponent of expanded casino gambling, offered to provide a $6.5 million tax break to struggling jai alai frontons and a dog track, which have said they will go out of business unless the state lets them have slot machines.
Stephen A. Wynn, the chairman of Mirage Resorts of Las Vegas, Nev., which has undertaken one of the most expensive lobbying campaigns ever in this state to convince residents that casinos would generate new jobs, said in response that he wouldn't want slot machines anyway, and would still build a $350 million casino in Bridgeport offering table games only, like blackjack and roulette.
Today, each side accused the other of duplicity or cynicism. A spokesman for Mirage called Mr. Weicker "the Dr. Kevorkian of governors," easing the death pains of the struggling jai alai operators without helping them find new sources of revenue.
"The Governor has fought this, practically, to his death," said Alan M. Feldman, the Mirage spokesman.
The Governor's allies said Mr. Wynn's move was simply a Trojan horse: the casinos would demand slot machines next year or the year after, they said, and no one should be fooled.
"They'll come on like a steamroller," said the minority leader in the House, Edward C. Krawiecki Jr., a Republican from Bristol and an opponent of expanded gambling. "They have to."
The deeper questions are whether Mr. Wynn, in making his new move, will be seen by legislators to be dealing from strength or weakness, and whether the representatives who favor the tax break for gambling operations in their areas will now abandon the casino plan.
Mr. Weicker has vowed to veto any casino bill, and overriding his veto would require a two-thirds majority. He played his big card in January: a pact with the Mashantucket Pequot Indians, who won the right to have slot machines at their casino in Ledyard and agreed, in return, to pay at least $100 million a year to the state as long as they kept a monopoly on that form of gambling.
Mr. Wynn, who had offered to spend $700 million building casinos in Hartford and Bridgeport, last week trimmed the list to just Bridgeport. His latest offer is for a casino with just table games, competing with the Pequots and their full-service casino an hour's drive away. But by eliminating slot machines from his package, Mr. Wynn has also insured that the Pequot monopoly, and their payments to the state, would continue.
"All these maneuverings ought to make the casino more attractive," said one casino supporter, Representative Richard T. Mulready, a Democrat from West Hartford. "But the unintended consequence is that they tend to make their position look weaker. People say, 'Why should I vote for this thing?' "
Mr. Krawiecki said, however, that he believed the casino plan might have been "watered down" sufficiently that it could be advertised as a way to promote economic development in Bridgeport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MIR (NYSE) (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MIRAGE RESORTS INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; BRIDGEPORT (CONN) UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; LAW AND LEGISLATION GAMING (93%); CASINOS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JAI ALAI (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CARD GAMES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); JOB CREATION (70%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK STEPHEN A WYNN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



531 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Wilderness Campaign: Anyone Listening?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 19

 BODY:
For years J. Patrick Gilligan has been telling anyone who would listen how New Jersey's tax system should be overhauled. He said he won praise from some fellow Republicans but no action and that is why, at the age of 72, he is running for governor.
"People would listen and promise to bring my ideas before the state party leadership and the Legislature but they never did," he said. "Going through channels hasn't worked, so I'm going right to the people and hope enough of them will agree with me and something will change." 
 Mr. Gilligan's message is easily the most radical one being heard in the campaign for the Republican nomination for governor. He does not simply want to roll back the rates of the state's sales and income taxes. He wants to get rid of them altogether.
He would make up the revenue for the state budget by enacting a graduated state income tax based on a percentage of a taxpayer's Federal income tax. He would pay for all state services, including all public school costs, out of this tax, so property taxpayers would also see a dramatic drop in their municipal taxes, he said.
 
Knocking on Closed Doors
 "We cannot continue a policy that taxes middle- and lower-income residents more severely than those with greater resources," he said. "Taxes should be based on ability to pay."
Mr. Gilligan, who has been a member of the American Stock Exchange since 1946, has been traveling to every Republican forum and public meeting he can find, but sometimes the doors are closed.
A recent campaign debate sponsored by the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce and televised over the state's cable network was limited to the three candidates who have raised enough money to qualify for matching state funds: Christine Todd Whitman, the former president of the State Board of Public Utility Commissioners; Cary Edwards, a former State Attorney General, and Jim Wallwork, a former State Senator.
While the three will raise and spend millions of dollars by the June 8 primary, Mr. Gilligan said he will spend less than $10,000.
A few days later, members of the United We Stand organization linked to Ross Perot held a forum for the Republican candidates in Westhampton in Burlington County, and again Mr. Gilligan was not invited.
Even on the occasions when Mr. Gilligan does get to the speakers' platform, he sometimes finds that it is not easy to make converts. At a Republican organization meeting in Florham Park, Mr. Gilligan gave his campaign address and called for questions. "It was a good group and we each got five minutes to speak," he said. "But at the end no one would ask me any questions."
Although forcing a change in New Jersey's fiscal policy is his chief aim, Mr. Gilligan has adopted provocative positions on a number of issues.
 
No Patience on Insurance
 He said he was appalled that the state spends $29,000 to house each prisoner for a year, while spending only $9,000 for each pupil's education. "We put convicts in prisons that resemble motels," he told an audience at candidates' night at Ramapo College. "We should put them in isolated areas in facilities that resemble prisoner-of-war camps."
To control health-care costs, Mr. Gilligan said he would encourage all dentists and doctors licensed in New Jersey to contribute one or two days a month providing free care for the poor. In return they would receive a credit on their income tax.
Mr. Gilligan is not the only Republican candidate who has campaigned in relative obscurity. Charles P. Hoffman, 48, of Brick Township is also on the ballot, although he announced this month that he would no longer actively campaign and was throwing his support to Mr. Wallwork.

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Patrick Gilligan, a candidate for the Republican nomination for Governor, believes New Jersey's tax system should be overhauled. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (61%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; GILLIGAN, J PATRICK

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



532 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Justice Post Nominee Says He Has Quit Golf Club

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
Webster L. Hubbell, the Clinton Administration's nominee for the third-highest post in the Justice Department, said today that he had resigned from an Arkansas golf club that had been all white until last year, when it recruited its first and only black member.
Mr. Hubbell, who had been under fire for his membership in the Country Club of Little Rock, said at a Senate confirmation hearing that he had decided to resign after concluding that his membership could be a liability. He said he sent a resignation letter on Tuesday. 
 "I have come to realize that there remains in the minds of some people the perception that my continued membership reflects some lack of sensitivity," said Mr. Hubbell, who, if confirmed as associate attorney general, would supervise the civil rights division. "I think it's important that that perception not distract from the job that I hope you will allow me to undertake. Therefore, I have resigned my membership in the Country Club of Little Rock."
 
Other Officials to Resign
 Today at the White House, a spokeswoman, Ricki Seidman, said that three other Administration officials who belong to the club also planned to resign. They are Thomas F. McLarty 3d, the White House Chief of Staff; Vince Foster, a deputy White House counsel, and William Kennedy, an associate counsel.
Mr. Hubbell's announcement drained today's hearing of the drama raised by the possibility of a serious fight over an issue that had ensnared nominees of the Reagan and Bush Administrations. Instead of confrontation, the hearing ended with Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who is the panel's chairman, predicting that Mr. Hubbell would be easily confirmed by the full Senate.
Mr. Hubbell, a close associate of President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton, told the panel that for years he had "worked within the club and with the African-Americans in our community to bring about diversity in the club."
"I would have resigned immediately from the club if I had believed an application would have been rejected on the basis of race," he said.
Mr. Hubbell, who has been Mrs. Clinton's law partner, a mayor of Little Rock and one-time chief justice of the Arkansas Supreme Court, encountered few hostile questions. Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the panel's ranking Republican, set the genial tone of the hearing, praising Mr. Hubbell as a "honorable and decent man" who did not "have a discriminatory bone in your body."
Carol Moseley-Braun, the Illinois Democrat who is the committee's only black member, said, "Webb Hubbell's resignation from the club is not an admission of his guilt but a demonstration of his sensitivity."
Mr. Hubbell joined the club in 1978. In letter to the committee earlier this month, he said the club's bylaws did not restrict membership in any way, and that it had Jewish and female members. The first black to join the club is Howard Curtis Reed, now a senior economist at the office of the United States Trade Representative.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Webster L. Hubbell, center, told members of the Senate Judiciary Committee considering his nomination to a top Justice Department post that he quit a golf club because his membership could be seen as a liability. He was introduced by Senators from his home state, Dale Bumpers, left, and David Pryor. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: HUBB (NYSE) (53%); HUBA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335932 NONCURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335121 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SENATE COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY; COUNTRY CLUB OF LITTLE ROCK HUBBELL INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; SENATE COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY; COUNTRY CLUB OF LITTLE ROCK US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BLACKS (IN US); AIDES AND EMPLOYEES ; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; DISCRIMINATION RESIGNATIONS (92%); GOLF (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID; HUBBELL, WEBSTER L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D ; FOSTER, VINCE; KENNEDY, WILLIAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



533 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Widens by $10.21 Billion

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit ballooned in March to $10.21 billion, the widest gap in nearly four years, as imports from Japan and China grew sharply while exports increased slowly, the Commerce Department announced today.
The widening of the deficit, from $7.9 billion in February, mainly reflected a $4.4 billion jump in imports to a record $49.2 billion. 
 Stephen L. Cooney Jr., a trade analyst at the National Association of Manufacturers, said the increase in goods entering the United States in March indicated that American merchants placed many orders for imported goods last winter, betting that the economy would recover and consumers would spend more.
"There are big increases in all of the Kmart and other bargain store products -- footwear, toys, games, sporting goods" and other low-priced consumer goods, he said.
 
Evidence of Growth
 Jeffrey J. Schott, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a not-for-profit Washington research group, said the rising imports indicated that the American economy was growing faster than other countries' economies, so that American consumers were more able to buy imported goods.
"This may come as a surprise to many Americans, but we're actually doing much better than most of our trading partners," he said.
The trade figures come at a politically inopportune time for the Administration -- two weeks before President Clinton has to decide whether to renew China's favorable trade status for the coming year and six weeks before he meets in Tokyo with the leaders of the world's other large industrial nations.
Administration officials say that President Clinton is virtually certain to renew China's trade status with some conditions, though no consensus has been reached on what those conditions should be.
Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, Republican of New York, has promised to use an obscure legislative rule to force a politically awkward vote on the House floor this summer on China's favorable trade status unless the President cancels the status entirely.
The nation's trade deficit with China widened to $1.46 billion in March from $1.17 billion in February.
The deficit with Japan also grew, to $5.26 billion from $4.13 billion in February. The deficit is the third-largest monthly deficit ever with Japan, according to Commerce Department figures, exceeded only by a $6.4 billion deficit in November 1986 and a $5.4 billion deficit in October 1987.
Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown noted today that the trade deficit with Japan had reached 64 percent of the total American trade deficit in March.
By contrast, the overall American trade deficit in March was not close to ranking in the top 10. The reason is that American trade deficits have shrunk with most of the world in recent years but not with Japan.
 
Not a Good Time
 But the large American-Japanese deficit announced today comes at a bad time for the Administration, too late for the recent visit to Washington of Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa of Japan and too early for the Group of Seven meeting in Japan.
Administration officials say they had secretly hoped for a large February trade deficit, which was announced the same day in April that Mr. Miyazawa met Mr. Clinton, so as to put pressure on Tokyo for concessions. But they were disappointed when the February deficit was virtually unchanged from January.
Today's large deficit is also too early to give the President ammunition for his trip to Tokyo on July 7. The April trade deficit is due to be announced before then.
Mr. Brown said today that "this surge in imports was a one-month deviation from more moderate trends." Much of the increase in March reflected the expansion of American merchants' inventories of imported goods, he said.
 
Reason for Reference
 James P. Desler, the acting press secretary for Mr. Brown, said the reference to inventories was made not to play down the size of the March trade deficit but rather to prepare the public in case next month's trade deficit was smaller. "We expect that imports will decline next month, but there are long-term, systemic trade problems that need to be addressed that will still be pressing regardless of next month," he said.
Paula Stern, a former chairwoman of the International Trade Commission, said that for Japanese negotiators, "if there is a bad number that comes out, it's far better that it comes out after the Miyazawa visit and before the G-7 summit."
Ms. Stern pointed out that the deficit might continue to widen because of the recent decline in the value of dollar, especially against the Japanese yen. Because the volume of goods imported tends to respond slowly to currency moves, a falling dollar temporarily means that imports cost more and the trade deficit tends to widen.
In the long run, economists say, a falling dollar will tend to reduce the deficit as imported goods become more expensive for Americans and American goods become more competitive in foreign markets.
 
Impact on Economy
 Economists differed today on what the trade statistics indicated about the health of the United States economy. Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley, said that the overall trade deficit was alarming because it showed that imports were outcompeting American-made goods in the United States market.
"The number is a shocking number," he said. "It does indicate that the first quarter was weaker than the preliminary estimate of 1.8 percent" growth in American economic output.
The Commerce Department issued the preliminary estimate of gross domestic product on April 29 and is to issue a final estimate on May 28.
But Mr. Cooney disagreed, saying that the large orders for imported goods were a sign of confidence by American companies that the economy would continue to expand and the goods could be sold.
Imports rose to $49.2 billion in March from $44.83 billion in February, while exports climbed to $39 billion from $36.93 billion.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" tracks imports, exports, and deficit since November 1991. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; CHINA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE IMPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RETAILERS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TOYS & GAMES (71%); RANKINGS (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BROWN, RONALD H (SEC) BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



534 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: High New Jersey Minimum Wage Doesn't Seem to Deter Fast-Food Hiring, Study Finds

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Despite sharp opposition from business, New Jersey last year increased its minimum wage to $5.05 an hour, the second highest in the nation and a level well above those in nearby states.
The increase in April 1992, from $4.25 an hour, came amid a slump in the state's economy, and at a time when employers were already under financial pressure and often unable to pass added labor costs on to customers in the form of higher prices. 
 Now, with New Jersey's unemployment rate at 9.1 percent, the highest of all the leading industrial states, the steeper minimum wage would seem a natural suspect in explaining why so many workers cannot find jobs.
But a new study by two labor economists at Princeton University on the effect of the higher minimum wage on employment in the state's fast-food restaurants -- one of the major employers of young workers who earn the minimum wage -- suggests that it has not been a significant deterrent to hiring.
"This is the situation you'd really expect the minimum wage to matter," Prof. Alan B. Krueger, an author of the study said. "But it didn't seem to have an effect in the fast-food industry and, besides, the industries that are really hurting in New Jersey are high paying ones like pharmaceuticals."
Data from New Jersey's farms, another big employer of low-wage workers, suggests the same. Even though seasonal hiring dropped right after the increase took effect, it fell less than in neighboring Delaware, where the minimum wage stayed put.
Whether the New Jersey law has cost jobs has political implications. South Jersey farmers and their legislative representatives are negotiating with Gov. Jim Florio for $12 million worth of concessions on a wide range of taxes and fees to compensate them for the higher minimum wage. Mr. Florio is running for re-election this year.
Washington is also watching New Jersey's experience with the higher minimum wage as the Clinton Administration tries to decide how hard to lean on employers as a route for delivering benefits to working Americans. The Federal minimum wage, covering employers in interstate commerce, is $4.25, and Federal law establishes that as a floor nationally. Individual states are free to set theirs higher.
 
Conventional Notions Upset
 Decades of research suggests that raising the minimum wage gives workers at the bottom of the ladder a better shot at supporting themselves, but discourages employers from hiring. The Princeton economists were surprised when their wide survey in the fast-food industry did not conform to their expectations.
"Nobody knew until the last minute that this law would go into effect, which means that it should have had a bigger impact because employers couldn't digest it in advance," Professor Krueger said. "Also relevant was that New Jersey deep recession. So we really expected to find effects; we suspected it would show the opposite."
He and the other researchers caution that this study, in itself, should not be seen as a blanket rationale for raising minimum wages nationwide. Most economists favor helping the working poor through tax credits rather than imposing new regulations on businesses, and the researchers advise studying other industries and other states.
But they and others say that the New Jersey findings, besides being striking per se, track recent findings of the effect of an increase in the Federal minimum wage in other states including California, Texas, Mississippi and North Carolina.
The Princeton team interviewed managers at 410 Wendy's, Burger King, KFC and Roy Rogers outlets two months before and nine months after the April 1992 increase. They reasoned that if effects were to show up, they would first appear in the fast-food industry because such places rely more heavily than other retailers on low-paid workers. They compared before and after results of New Jersey restaurants with a control group of Pennsylvania restaurants.
"The fast-food industry has the highest proportion of minimum-wage workers and has, on average, the youngest workers," said David Card, the study's other author. "If the minimum wage had a big negative effect, that's where you'd expect to see it."
The researchers had expected that the increase would prompt businesses to dismiss the least skilled workers, push those remaining to work harder, and substitute machines for new hiring where possible.
Instead, the restaurants added 2.5 workers per store, on average. To be sure, a large minority of the New Jersey restaurants trimmed the number of workers, but the majority added some. There was no sign that employers cut fringe benefits like free or bargain meals, nor was there evidence that they canceled scheduled raises.
With the Pennsylvania control group, the average number of workers per restaurant edged down roughly 2 percent, despite the fact that the minimum wage there had not changed.
"The higher minimum wage isn't the factor that's pushed many restaurants that did go out of business in the past couple of years," said Larry Fidel of the New Jersey Restaurant Association.
 
An Unhappy Employer's View
 Not everyone agrees, though, that the increase hasn't had the anticipated negative effects.
"The creeping socialism begins at the $5.05 level," said Eric Mund, general manager of the Mega Management Corporation, a Burger King franchise in northern New Jersey. Mr. Mund says that the higher minimum caused him to cut back hours and to stint on service a bit. "Unfortunately, people have to wait longer and that doesn't make me happy."
And Richard Berman at the Employment Policies Institute, a Washington-based business group, said: "You see a lot of stories that the economy is coming back but jobs aren't. Mandated benefits and high labor costs are at the heart of that. Employers are trying to find ways to deliver services and products with fewer workers."
But employment trends in New Jersey do seem to illustrate the absence of a broad deterrent to hiring from a higher minimum wage. The employment rate among adults -- those 20 and older -- declined in the nine months after the higher minimum was imposed, but no more than in New York.
Of course, adults were potentially less vulnerable than teen-age workers since only 5 percent of the adults questioned in New Jersey earned less than the new minimum wage, while one-third of all working teen-agers were below that level.
Nonetheless, even among teen-agers, employment rates in the nine-month period -- April through December -- actually fell less in New Jersey in than in nearby states -- by only 0.7 percent, compared to more than 2.5 percent in New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut.
Conventional economic models suggest that the effect of raising the minimum wage by 18.8 percent should have been a decline of 2 percent to 5 percent in teen-agers' employment.
Some economists, including the researchers who conducted the New Jersey study, caution against using the New Jersey results as a policy guide, even if confirmed by further studies. New Jersey has long been one of highest wage states in the United States, and a smaller proportion of both teen-agers and adults were being paid below the new minimum than in most other states.
 
Study's Potential for Error
 The study did not rule out the possibility that some other unidentified factors might have influenced the hiring in New Jersey and in Pennsylvania. It could turn out, for example, that fast-food restaurants expanded more in New Jersey than in Pennsylvania because, say, New Jersey was less saturated with such establishments, and was catching up through expansion.
"They haven't accounted for differences in the labor markets," said James Heckman, a labor economist at the University of Chicago. "That could make a big difference."
A separate study by Professor Card showed that teen-agers' employment in California did not fall, relative to similar employment in a number of Southwestern states, despite California's higher minimum wage.
But a study by Lowell Taylor, an economist at Carnegie-Mellon Univeristy of Pittsburgh, suggests that were it not for the higher minimum wage, jobs for California youths would have increased more, in comparison with the other states.
And there is the further question of how typical fast-food stores are of the larger world of retailing.
Whatever the limitations of the fast-food industry study, data from New Jersey agriculture seem to point in the same direction.
 
Farmer Prefers Long Days
 Farmers have complained that the higher minimum wage has inhibited their ability to hire. A third-generation grower, John Rigolizzo, for example, says that 10 of his South Jersey neighbors are not farming this year, and attributes this to the minimum-wage increase. He said that was also why he and his father had hired fewer hands and were working 15-hour days.
The number of paid agricultural workers in New Jersey was 6 percent lower in June 1992, after the new law was enacted, than a year earlier, according to the state unemployment insurance office.
But in Delaware, where, like New Jersey, farmers grow everything from peaches to pumpkins, agricultural jobs fell by a much larger 17 percent last summer, despite the fact that the minimum wage there did not budge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY MINIMUM WAGE (93%); FAST FOOD (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SEASONAL WORKERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



535 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: New Japan-Trade Policy May Split Power Among Agencies

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 19

 BODY:
Top Clinton Administration officials are in the final stages of drafting a new American trade policy toward Japan that would call for five Cabinet agencies to begin immediate negotiations to open the Japanese market, American officials and Washington trade experts said today.
A series of secret meetings have been held in the last six days at the White House to draft the new policy, which would split the negotiating authority among the Treasury, State, Defense and Commerce Departments and the Office of the United States Trade Representative. 
 President Clinton and Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa of Japan announced during Mr. Miyazawa's visit here last month that the two countries would draft a new framework for discussions of Japan's persistent trade surpluses with the United States. But the new framework now being devised largely resembles that used by the Bush Administration, which some Congressional Democrats had criticized as too weak.
By dispersing authority over trade matters, the new policy also may dilute the influence of Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative.
A delegation of senior American officials will visit Tokyo in the next several weeks to present the new interagency policy, which is still subject to approval by President Clinton and the Cabinet, Washington trade experts said. No date for the trip has been set.
The new policy involves up to five "baskets" into which issues would be grouped. The first basket would consist of specific industry issues, such as trade in cars and computer chips.
The second basket would include questions of how each country's economy is organized, including American charges that the convoluted Japanese retail-store system discriminates against American goods.
The third basket would be made up of global economic issues, such as the value of the yen, while the fourth basket would work on foreign investment issues, like the difficulties that American companies have faced in trying to buy factories in Japan.
The last basket would handle national security issues that overlap with economic issues, like purchases of military equipment and Japanese payments to cover the cost of American soldiers stationed there.
Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger C. Altman has played a leading role in drafting the new policy. But a senior Administration official, who only spoke on condition of anonymity, said that it was still unclear who would lead the trip.
Bowman Cutter, a deputy assistant to the President for economic affairs and a senior staff official at the National Economic Council, has been running the interagency meetings, said the official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; KANTOR, MICKEY (TRADE REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); ROGER ALTMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



536 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Policy becomes fuzzy when jobs enter the advanced-TV picture.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
CANDIDATE Clinton said he believed in industrial policy, and now President Clinton is proving it: The Federal Communications Commission's decision on a technical standard for high-definition television, wrote Robert B. Reich, the Labor Secretary and very close Friend of Bill's, "should turn, in part, on an assessment of which system would make the greatest contribution to domestic high-wage employment."
Well, that is not quite proof. While Secretary Reich's letter to the chairman of the commission has been widely interpreted as a plug for the French-Dutch consortium promising to build the new television sets in America, sources close to Mr. Reich say he was only repeating his long-held belief that good jobs matter. But the fallout illustrates both the theoretical attractions and practical difficulties of picking industrial winners. 
 Four different standards for delivering razor-sharp television images are now being considered by the F.C.C. All four, argues Chuck Jackson, an engineering consultant with Strategic Policy Research in Maryland, are excellent. Indeed, says Mr. Jackson, a member of an independent advisory committee to the commission, "no standard has attributes that clearly lift it over the others."
Mr. Jackson, along with Richard E. Wiley, the head of the advisory group and a former chairman of the F.C.C., would like the competitors to combine their intellectual capital and hammer out a formula for sharing the gravy. Until very recently, that seemed a likely prospect.
But since the Reich letter -- along with an unsubtle "me-too" follow-up from Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader -- all bets are off. If a second round of tests begins late this month before tempers cool, time may run out on a compromise.
According to those sympathetic to Mr. Reich, the intervention amounted to less than met the eye. Approached by organized labor to back the Advanced Television Research Consortium, whose foreign partners (Thompson Consumer Electronics and Philips Electronics) assemble TV's in Indiana and Pennsylvania, the Labor Secretary simply wrote a "constituents' letter" to get them off his back. Nothing Mr. Reich has said in the past, they note, would suggest he thinks America's future lies in the protection of unskilled assembly line work -- or that his heart belongs to the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
But how should one interpret Mr. Reich's call for a standard that generates "high-paying jobs"? Peter Pitsch, an economist at Pitsch Communications in Washington and a former senior staffer at the F.C.C., believes any attempt to "skew this decision toward jobs is myopic." So much is at stake in the HDTV decision in terms of the ultimate value to consumers, he contends, that picking the wrong system "could cost millions of dollars for each job created."
There are economists, however, who impute more method than madness to the industrial policy rap. Choices at the technological crossroads, argues Paul David of Stanford University, can have far-reaching effects on productivity in related industries. Technology can spill from business to business, especially if the innovation is taking place in geographic clusters like Silicon Valley. "There is a lot to be said for the strategic view," he argues -- the view that government has an important role to play in nudging innovators toward the biggest social payoffs.
The catch is that no one is certain where these payoffs lie. "We're always better at predicting the past," Mr. David conceded.
Mr. David's own guess is that timing is key. Once an HDTV system that is pretty good is adopted in a major market, it will probably dominate laggards even if they are better. This might argue for picking the standard that would create working equipment soonest. Then again, it might not: Japan spent heavily to be first, only to end up with an HDTV system that was dead on arrival because it hogged so much of the broadcast spectrum.
Edward Horowitz, the chairman of Viacom Broadcasting, thinks the critical linkage is with computers. He envisions the day computer makers put television tuners in their portables and use broadcasting for huge one-way data flows. This would require an HDTV standard that yields a "progressive scan" picture, viewable with comfort from a few inches. Or perhaps not: what counts in the end, Mr. Horowitz notes, is that the HDTV standard be "upwardly compatible," one whose limitations can be overcome down the road.
George Gilder, the author of "Life After TV," who predicted the Japanese debacle in HDTV when almost everyone else was anguishing over America's lost opportunity, believes these issues are rapidly becoming nonissues. "It is too late for the standard to have much impact," he claims. Microelectronics are becoming so cheap and so flexible, he argues, that innovators will be able to surmount any obstacles left in their path. "There'll be enough intelligence at the terminal," he expects, "to make the idea of standards obsolete."
What does that imply about industrial policy? If Mr. Gilder is right (again), the possibility of rational management of electronics technology by Washington may be ending just as it is coming back into fashion.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (52%); PHIA (AMS) (52%); PHG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (52%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) ; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION EMPLOYMENT (91%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); ENGINEERING (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



537 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Profit Taking Brings Halt To Surge in Gold Market

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Gold prices retreated yesterday from a two-year high, as traders took some profits after a explosive rally.
Gold for delivery in June, which jumped $8 on Tuesday, settled down $1.80 an ounce, at $374.20, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Earlier in the day, gold for June had traded at $383.50 an ounce, its highest point since January 1991. 
 Adding to yesterday's pressures on gold was unconfirmed speculation that George Soros, the hedge-fund manager who had helped start the gold rally, was selling some of his gold holdings and buying bonds. A spokeswoman for Mr. Soros declined to comment.
"Obviously, someone was selling a lot of gold today, but the underlying fundamentals of this market are still very positive," said Leanne Baker, an analyst at Salomon Brothers.
 
An Early Rally
 Gold soared on Tuesday and in early trading yesterday as concerns about inflation drove investors from stocks and bonds. Investors often turn to gold as a hedge against inflation. But as gold retreated in late trading in New York, prices of stocks and Treasury bonds surged.
Still, several gold analysts did not see yesterday's decline in gold prices as a definite sign that the rally is over.
"This market has been up so persistently without a correction of any significance that almost anything could cause people with good profits to sell," Ms. Baker said.
Gold has gained more than $30 an ounce, or about 9.5 percent, the last two months.
Joseph Rosta, senior metals analyst with CPM Group in New York, predicted gold could rise to as high as $420 an ounce by the end of the year.
Mr. Soros added fuel to the gold rally in April when he bought a 10 percent stake in Newmont Mining for $269 million from the British financier Sir James Goldsmith. Sir James, in turn, used some of that money to buy gold options.
Among other metals yesterday, silver for July delivery settled 8.5 cents lower, at $4.54 an ounce, on the Comex. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, July platinum closed $5.20 lower, at $385.80 an ounce.
Also on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for June slumped after the American Petroleum Institute reported an increase in American crude oil inventories. June crude oil settled 19 cents lower, at $19.15 a barrel. Heating oil finished 0.24 cent higher, at 54.04 cents a gallon, and unleaded gasoline was up 0.46 cent, at 59.12 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (53%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CPM GROUP (54%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING GOLD MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



538 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Stocks and Bonds Surge; Dow Hits 3,500;
30-Year Treasury Again Below 7%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
A rush of relief washed over the bond market yesterday, as the worst fears from Tuesday turned out to be wrong yesterday.
After a wrenching day of trading that saw prices and yields rise and fall sharply several times, probably costing some traders a lot of money, came a happy ending. 
 The yield on the 30-year bond surpassed 7.05 percent twice in the day before retreating, finishing at 6.97 percent. Short and intermediate Treasury prices also rallied.
Yesterday turned out to be better than Tuesday, when Treasury prices slumped and the 30-year bond yield breached 7 percent for the first time in a month and a half, to close at 7.02 percent, because the Federal Reserve did not signal any tightening of interest rates. Traders had feared that given surprisingly large jumps in April's key inflation indexes, the Fed might take some action during its policy-making committee meeting on Tuesday.
 
 
Gold Eases Inflation Anxiety
 In addition, the price of gold, which leapt to more than $383 an ounce early in the day, pushing prices lower and yields higher, settled lower for the day. This released some of the growing inflationary tension, which was heightened Tuesday, when the price of gold rose $8 an ounce, to $376. It settled yesterday at $374.20, down $1.80 an ounce.
But while tension has eased, the basic environment of the market has not changed much, a sign that prices and yield will still be trapped in a tight trading range. The six-tenths of a percentage point rise in the Producer Price Index for finished goods and the four-tenths of a percentage point rise in the Consumer Price index for April will stay on traders' minds. And while the Fed appears not to have lifted short-term interest rates, the general perception is that the central bank's next move will be higher and sooner than expected, unless the May inflation data are surprisingly good and the economy fails to pick up any steam.
"I would not say that the market is going back to its highs any time soon," said Ronald Connors, a senior managing director at Bear, Stearns & Company, referring to higher prices and lower yields.
 
 
'Fundamentals Are the Same'
 Jay Goldinger, a bond trader for Capital Insight in Los Angeles, said that he was cautious about overreacting to Tuesday's selloff and equally cautious about yesterday's buying.
"Yesterday, I didn't want to be too bearish and today I don't want to be too bullish," Mr. Goldinger said. "I don't think anything changed between today and yesterday. The economic fundamentals are the same."
The Federal Reserve's inaction gave the biggest support to shorter-term Treasury notes and bills. The discount rate on three-month and six-month Treasury bills, for example, were down 4 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 3.96 percent and 3.06 percent, respectively.
"I don't think they did anything," David M. Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, said of the Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates. "The market has recovered, particularly in the short end, because the scare is over for now on the Fed."
But Mr. Jones did not rule out the possibility that the Fed might have decided to write a policy directive that would shift the central bank from neutral on interest rates to a bias toward higher interest rates.
 
 
Possible Shift by Fed
 The effect of such an action is unclear. It could reignite the fear of higher rates, pushing up short-term rates and longer-term yields. Or it could reduce concerns about inflation by suggesting that the Fed was ready to do what was necessary to curb price increases.
Traders noted that while the drop in the gold price was reassuring, it was not just the result of reduced inflationary fears. The selloff appears to have been set off, in part, by a rumor, which was not confirmed, that George Soros, a speculator and hedge-fund operator who helped start the gold rally by announcing a major investment, had sold some gold to take profits and bought Treasury bonds.
Mr. Connors of Bear Stearns also said that buying was supported by reports of a big speculator in 30-year bond futures, which trade in Chicago. As the rally continued, a lot of speculators who had sold bonds thinking the decline would continue, had to scramble to cover their positions. That added to the steepness of the rebound.
 
 
Still Getting Orders
 Mr. Connors also said that despite the weakness in the tax-exempt municipal market, his firm was still getting orders in the afternoon for millions of dollars of Treasury securities that are used in the escrow funds established to pay off old higher-interest-rate municipal bonds.
In a separate development, the Treasury announced that it would sell $15.75 billion of two-year notes next week, an increase of $500 million from the last auction. The increase reflects the decision announced earlier this month to reduce the sales of 30-year bonds and to shift the borrowing to securities with maturities of three years and less.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow" tracks daily closes of the Dow Industrial aberage since January; "Interest Rates" tracks yield on 30-year Treasury bonds during the day yesterday; "Gold" tracks price for an ounce for June delivery in Comex trading during the day yesterday. (pg. D1);"Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; GOLD; PRICES; TREASURY BONDS BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



539 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Declines on Report Of Wider U.S. Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended broadly lower yesterday after the Government reported an unexpected surge in the March trade deficit and re-ignited speculation that it favored a weaker dollar.
The trade news dominated a market buffeted by conflicting influences, including continued fallout from the ratification by Denmark of the Maastricht Treaty on European unity and the failure of the German central bank to lower interest rates. 
 The report by the Commerce Department that the merchandise trade deficit in the United States soared to $10.2 billion in March, the worst showing in almost four years, sent the dollar plunging against the Japanese yen in morning trading in New York.
The dollar fell further, to an intraday low of 109.90 yen, on subsequent remarks by the Commerce Secretary, Ronald H. Brown, that part of the Clinton Administration's attempt to correct the deficit would include "market-driven exchange rate corrections."
The remarks revived speculation that the Administration was trying to use the currency markets to narrow the trade deficit with Japan. A weaker dollar and stronger yen make Japanese imports more expensive in the United States, and American-made products cheaper in Japan.
 
No Weak-Dollar Policy
 But the dollar recovered some of its losses after Mr. Brown clarified his remarks shortly before noon, telling reporters that the Administration had no official policy favoring a weaker dollar.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 111.56 yen, up 0.28 yen from the close on Tuesday. By 4 P.M. in New York, the dollar was worth 110.75 yen, down from 111.445 yen late Tuesday.
But the dollar was only slightly lower against the German mark, which suffered from continued reaction to the Danish vote on Tuesday. Viewing the vote as a signal of renewed stability in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, traders were selling marks, considered the safe haven of European currencies, and buying secondary European currencies like the Danish krone.
The mark softened despite a decision by the German central bank, the Bundesbank, to leave interest rates at current high levels. Expectations of lower rates make a currency less attractive to investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (70%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENCIES (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



540 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Top Performers Lead Again In Money Market Yields

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The yields of most money market funds rose slightly in the latest week, with many funds that were in first place the previous week again performing near the top.
IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report said 7-day yields of taxable funds advanced, while 30-day yields declined. In the tax-exempt sector, both 7-day and 30-day yields increased. 
 "There has been a great deal of activity elsewhere in the fixed-income market," said Walter S. Frank, chief economist of IBC/Donoghue. "But the money market has been relatively quiet, reflecting the fact that the Federal Reserve has done nothing and there is no great expectation that it will."
The seven-day average compounded yield for taxable money market funds was up 2 basis points, or hundredths of a point, to 2.64 percent, while the simple yield rose 1 basis point, to 2.60 percent. Over a 30-day period, the average compounded and simple yields both dropped 1 basis point, to 2.64 percent and 2.61 percent, respectively.
 
Tax-Exempt Yields Rise
 As for tax-exempt yields, the average 7-day compounded yield increased 7 basis points, to 2.03 percent, while the simple yield advanced 7 basis points, to 2.01 percent. For a 30-day average, the compounded and simple yields both rose 2 basis points, to 2.01 percent and 1.99 percent, respectively.
"Not much is happening and tax-exempt yields continue to scrape bottom," Mr. Frank said. "This was part of a slight bounce from the bottom."
Total assets of taxable money market funds fell $2.6 billion, to $488.7 billion for the week, with the average number of days left to maturity of securities held in fund portfolios rising by 1, to 64. There was, however, a $4.7 billion decline in the assets of institutional funds, offset in part by an increase of $2.1 billion in retail funds.
 
Quick to Switch
 "Other money market rates went up this past week, and institutional investors switch quickly," Mr. Frank said. "With this competition, they shift their money out immediately and buy Treasury bills and other open-market instruments where they can get a higher yield."
Total assets of tax-exempt money market funds inched down $172 million, to $99.4 billion. The average days left to maturity of securities in portfolios was unchanged, at 48 days.
In its weekly survey of general- purpose taxable money market funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue noted that the best- performing fund was also the top performer the previous week -- the Dreyfus Basic Money Market Fund, with a return of 3.42 percent. The top performer among tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million also repeated on top of the list -- the Dreyfus Basic Municipal Money Market Fund, with a yield of 2.72 percent.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on May 19, 1993 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 	New York	2.33	2.75	Los Angeles	2.46	2.80	Chicago	2.55	2.87	San Francisco	2.47	2.75	Philadelphia	2.46	2.72	Detroit	2.78	2.84	Boston	2.44	2.80	Houston	2.56	2.99	Dallas	2.56	3.04	Washington	2.62	3.10	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.52	2.87	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" tracks Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts since February. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, Fla., and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, Holiston, Mass.); "Maturities" tracks average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios. Graph runs from June 1992 to the persent. (Source: IBC/Donoghue's)
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IBC/DONAGHUE'S MONEY FUND REPORT

ORGANIZATION: IBC/DONAGHUE'S MONEY FUND REPORT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; INTEREST RATES MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (96%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



541 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Torborg Leaves In State Of Acute Media Shock

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

 BODY:
The night's organizational dirty work had been done. Jeff Torborg, who had conceded that the city's intense news media focus had been the single greatest shock and obstacle he had faced as manager of the Mets, stood behind his office desk and faced the microphones and cameras once more.
There was humor and relief and a tiny hint of defiance to the end. Of course, the future for Torborg was not exactly desolate or impoverished. He has more than a million dollars coming, and his guaranteed contract with the Mets is not for personal services. He is not obligated to do anything but cash checks through 1995. 
 "I might," said Torborg, barely able to hold his smile, "try an afternoon radio show."
 
On the Air
 Radio shows, of course, had help unravel Torborg's reputation. He was on the air too often in 1992. He canceled for 1993. But the rest of the manager's problems weren't so easily solved.
"I feel empty," said Torborg, whose final record was 85-115. "I looked out there on the field all night tonight, and I still found it hard to believe this has happened to the team we put together."
Torborg realized for good how far it had all come apart when he walked through the clubhouse door after last night's 6-4, 10-inning victory over the Pirates and saw General Manager Al Harazin in the manager's office. The subsequent meeting was emotional. The rationale laid out for Torborg, though, was entirely comprehensible.
"Maybe it will take a new face to take some of the heat off these guys," said Torborg.
 
Caught in the Crossfire
 The heat of the news media attention is what will linger most disturbingly with Torborg.
"When I took the job, I didn't know where the challenge would come from," said Torborg. "But the media scrutiny was unlike anything I had thought or experienced in Chicago or Cleveland or with the Yankees. It wasn't even close. You get caught in the crossfire."
Torborg stood throughout, answered all questions, shook all hands. He then had to call his wife. Asked what he might call his imagined radio show, Torborg laughed. He suggested the name "Rip Everybody," then added, "Nah, not really."
The manager seemed beyond bitterness. He was just a half hour into unemployment, and it didn't feel too bad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BASEBALL (91%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; TORBORG, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



542 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: It's Lights Out for Torborg After One Last Blast;
Green Is Hired To Hoist Mets Out of Cellar

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

 BODY:
Jeff Torborg worked his final game as manager of the Mets last night, a victim of his club's nonstop losing. He was officially dismissed after a rare and dramatic 6-4 extra-inning triumph over the Pirates. The final score, though, couldn't change the ugly numbers for the season, a 13-25 record and last place.
Dallas Green, the former Yankees and Phillies manager whose current job had been as a scout in the Mets organization, will succeed Torborg. Green was named by General Manager Al Harazin at a news conference at Shea Stadium after last night's game. Green's contract will run through the 1995 season, and the tough-talking 59-year-old with the reputation for mixing patience and intimidation will be in the dugout for the next game, tomorrow night at Shea against the Braves. 
 Harazin, who said that Torborg "failed to make it happen," was at once modest and confident about what Green had the potential to make happen.
"Dallas Green is a unique personality," Harazin said. "He will put his stamp here. I think he thinks he can turn the team around. I'm not looking for him to win 15 or 20 straight and jump us back into contention with the Phillies. But what I want to come from the rest of the season is the sense that the franchise is back going in the right direction."
 
Foote and LaRoche Also Go
 Along with Torborg, the Mets dismissed coaches Barry Foote and Dave LaRoche. Darrell Johnson, a special assignment scout for the Mets, was added to Green's staff. Green will make one further coaching appointment, perhaps John Stearns, a former Met.
Torborg, who insisted he had not been told of any change in status by management before the game, nonetheless knew what was coming. And he offered no excuses for his performance, saying he was embarrassed that he hadn't got the job done.
"I didn't want to leave the job undone," Torborg said after his dismissal. "But I understand."
The day the manager was fired unfolded as a strange and awkwardly handled event. Front office executives, who had been meeting all day, were unavailable for comment before the game, and according to Torborg there had been no effort to communicate with their doomed manager. Torborg thus was forced to deal with a news media army before the game, and even went on a pre-game television show to talk about his clearly compromised future.
"If it's my last game," he said, "I sure would like to win the damn thing."
He did, but it served more as a reminder of why the end had come for Torborg's reign: his wildly expensive, profoundly disappointing club had not won nearly often enough. After a 72-90 season last year, the Mets entered last night's game with a 12-25 record, the second worst in all of baseball. There had been defeats of every conceivable kind -- blowouts, an excruciating string of one-run losses, failures wrought by poor pitching one night, sorry defense the next, inadequate offense the next.
Despite all the recent speculation, the departure of Torborg is still nothing short of extraordinary. The 51-year-old manager, who had won the American League manager of the year award in 1990 after his dramatic turnaround of a youthful Chicago White Sox club, was hailed at his hiring in October 1991 as precisely what the Mets required. He was regarded as strong on discipline and preparation and adept at news media relations. He was awarded a four-year guaranteed contract worth $1.9 million, and the final two and two-third years of that package will make his sudden unemployment quite bearable.
 
A Rocky Tenure
 But Torborg's tenure was never smooth. He was every bit the prepared professional the Mets had thought they'd hired, but he seemed to fall victim to over-concern with news media coverage and his public image. A handful of players last year found him alternately overbearing and insecure, and by the end of the disastrous fifth-place finish, there was regular clubhouse sniping about his ability as a strategist. Then, there were suggestions from those who had hired him and then had let him go in Chicago that he had all along been a manager with faults.
Torborg, at the end of the 1992 season, confessed to mistakes -- conceding he had underestimated the complexity of managing in the National League, admitting his commitments to a daily radio show were ill-conceived and counterproductive, and saying he had for whatever reason been unable to spur a collection of talented players to collective success.
Asked if he was shocked at Torborg's inability to accomplish success, Harazin, who himself had staked his uncertain reputation as a general manager on Torborg's selection, turned up his hands.
"Disappointed is the word," Harazin said. "And I may be even more disappointed than Jeff is."
"I came into the job with my eyes open," said Torborg, who had served as a longtime coach with the Yankees before he was hired in Chicago. "And I've seen managerial changes before. Most of the time, it is not personal."
 
An Agonizing Decision
 Certainly, the decision by the Mets came after considerable agonizing. The club's owners as recently as two weeks ago expressed patience and empathy for Torborg and called all speculation about his status misguided. But the losing simply didn't stop for the Mets -- the club went into last night's game having lost 18 of the last 22 games -- and the owners, Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday, evidently felt action had to be taken to send a message of some kind to the club's fans and avert the prospect of a financially devastating, competitively empty summer at Shea.
"The mix just didn't work out," said Harazin. "We have a lot of decisions to make, difficult decisions. It's going to take time to find answers."
The likelihood that Green can reverse the club's fortunes and redeem a season that has seen the Mets fall 14 games off the pace in the National League East appears remote. It was clear in recent weeks how unsound the Mets are.
 
Torborg Thanked Coaches
 The scene at Shea late this afternoon indicated that a change was coming. Torborg met with his coaches and thanked them. He spoke briefly with Frank Cashen, the former general manager, and talked about the weather. Torborg's son, Greg, had a duffel bag and was set to pack it.
The end came hours later, and now it is Green who will have to prepare for the enormous chore of manufacturing life and triumphs at Shea. Green, who managed the Phillies to a World Series championship in 1980 by shaking up a country club environment, enjoys a certain cachet as an imposing, even feared managerial presence. He is big and direct and unsparing in his critiques of players.
"He'll get in people's faces, and that means everyone's face, from the guy with the five-year deal to the guy making the major-league minimum," said Larry Bowa, who played under Green in Philadelphia.
"I found him to be fair," said Don Mattingly, who played under Green with the Yankees and who found himself openly criticized by the manager. "I didn't agree with everything he did. But it wasn't my job to judge him. My job was to play for him, and I didn't find that hard to do. At least he had an approach, and it was his alone. I though it fair."
"He'll stir it up," said Joe Torre, who managed against Green in 1980. "He's hands-on, very aggressive, a guy you can't ignore. You can't change the abilities of players, but you can change attitudes."
The Mets, of course, need an attitude adjustment. They also need a lot more than that. Jeff Torborg couldn't get it out of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BASEBALL (92%); DISMISSALS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; TORBORG, JEFF; GREEN, DALLAS

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



543 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: 'Yes' to Europe. But What Kind?

 BODY:
It was the idea of European union, rather than the specifics of the Maastricht treaty, that Danish voters finally said "yes" to on Tuesday. The ambitious Maastricht blueprint for a unified European foreign and defense policy and a single European currency seems increasingly unlikely to be realized, at least by the 1999 deadline.
Americans have little stake in the details of Maastricht, but a great deal in closer European cooperation. The events of the past year, from currency upheavals to Europe's disastrous fumbling of the Bosnia catastrophe, painfully underscore how far Europe still has to go. 
 The Maastricht treaty, drawn up at a meeting of European heads of government in December 1991, never attracted much popular enthusiasm. The treaty failed its first referendum test in Denmark and barely survived a referendum in France. Maastricht remains a hard-fought issue in Britain, where Parliament is to vote on approval today. And in Germany, ratification faces legal challenges.
European leaders made a serious mistake when they refused to develop democratic institutions to carry out the European Community's expanded role. That left real power with national governments that often failed to agree on common approaches. And it increased resentment of the Community's unpopular Brussels bureaucrats.
Maastricht's other great flaw was its failure to embrace the newly liberated countries of Eastern Europe. A more expansively defined Europe would probably have been less myopic about Bosnia and less protectionist toward countries like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The smoothest way to move forward now would be to complete the ratification process in Britain and Germany, then proceed to radical revisions.
Community protectionism and the reluctance of West European governments to take responsibility for the Continent's security are the two most serious problems now afflicting the American-European relationship. A geographically expanded and democratized Community would offer hope of a less parochial, more enlightened Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); DENMARK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; DENMARK; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (99%); NETHERLANDS (94%); DENMARK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TREATIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); REFERENDUMS (78%); EURO (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



544 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Iraqgate Giveaway

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If the Department of Justice wins a case to be tried in Atlanta this fall, then the U.S. taxpayer may be forced to cough up over $380 million to a corrupted Italian bank.
Whose side is the Department of Justice on? 
 Iraqgate buffs will recall how the Atlanta branch of Italy's state-owned Lavoro bank helped finance Saddam Hussein's military buildup with billions in loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Ostensibly to promote grain sales, the guarantees were James Baker's method of providing backdoor financing to Iraq, to which Congress was not about to give foreign aid.
When the flow of U.S. money to Iraq was disrupted by a tipoff to the F.B.I., Italy -- our go-between -- stood to lose billions. If it turned out that the bank's officers in Rome knew about the corrupt loans, then the Department of Agriculture need not make good when Iraq defaulted.
Italy's Ambassador, Rinaldo Petrignani (now with the law firm of Rogers & Wells), was cabled by Rome to "raise the case to a political level." He met with Attorney General Dick Thornburgh at the White House; our chief law officer, who happened to get a memo briefing him on the case in detail just three days before, said he did not remember the meeting.
The Bush Justice Department -- perhaps Mr. Thornburgh himself -- denied a request to send investigators to Rome. A couple of long years later, the local Atlanta manager was indicted; Justice's theory is that he alone is guilty and the bank headquarters in Rome is innocent. But the local fall guy changed his mind about taking the fall, withdrew his plea of guilty and charged the C.I.A. knew of Rome's involvement in the Iraqi financing; documents forced out of the C.I.A. by the Senate corroborate that.
So here we are with the Clinton Justice Department going to trial to prove Rome's bankers innocent, when Italian and American investigators know the opposite is true. That smells fairly fishy, and nobody at Agriculture or Justice wants to take the responsibility.
In an act of faccia tosta (that's chutzpah in Italian), Lavoro sued for its U.S.-guaranteed loan money in Federal claims court. Last week, Justice asked that a decision to pay be dismissed or deferred pending the outcome of the trial of Christopher Drogoul, Lavoro's Atlanta manager.
That covers posteriors at Justice and Agriculture. If Drogoul is convicted in Atlanta and bank headquarters is absolved, the American taxpayer will have to make good on Jim Baker's backdoor financing of Saddam -- but our bureaucrats can say, "The claims court made us do it."
Iraqgate -- the secret, unlawful American-British-Italian buildup of Saddam -- marches on. In London, another front-organization case collapsed when it came out that British intelligence was running Matrix-Churchill, the outfit that supplied Saddam's advanced technology. Paul Henderson, the purported spy heading the front, told me he could say nothing because he was writing a book. A British independent counsel, looking into that end of the global scandal, will presumably buy a copy.
Meanwhile, after a two-year delay by an assistant U.S. Attorney in Miami, Justice is finally moving against Carlos Cardoen, the merchant of cluster bombs to Saddam. According to Alan Friedman of The Financial Times, the arms dealer says this was also with the Bush Administration's guilty knowledge.
Ironically, when Representative Charles Ford of the House Agriculture Committee brought in a witness to brief the new Attorney General on a facet of Iraqgate, they were shunted off to Janet Reno's new assistant from Miami, Richard Scruggs -- the same guy who failed to aggressively pursue the Cardoen case.
Catch the pattern: Justice's Public Integrity Section chief, Michael Shepard, last month declined to prosecute the Commerce official who misled Congress on 68 export licenses to Iraq; he was just named U.S. Attorney in Chicago.
Ms. Reno, who spoke up for the Independent Counsel Act before Congress, has no idea how many career officials in her headless Criminal Division fear being called before a grand jury by an Iraqgate special prosecutor. She'll get the necessary new law; let's hope she resists the manipulations of her new colleagues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ROME, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO CLIFFORD CHANCE LLP (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; ITALY IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ROME, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); LAWYERS (78%); ETHICS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TRENDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



545 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Governor Has Let Cities and Towns Go Begging

 BODY:

To the Editor:
William Safire's column extolling the virtues of a Presidential run by Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts ("What About Weld?", May 6) needs some correction before yet another political myth is created.
Mr. Safire quotes Governor Weld's claim that he has "balanced three budgets without raising taxes or borrowing," thus proving that the conservative Governor Weld is able to do what Gov. Michael S. Dukakis before him and President Clinton were unable to do. 
 Perhaps Mr. Safire does not know that at precisely the same time the Commonwealth of Massachusetts achieved a balanced budget and investment-grade bond ratings, nine Massachusetts cities and towns were downgraded to junk-bond status, and several hovered near bankruptcy. Governor Weld's primary tool for The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters must include the writer's name, address and telephone number. We regret that we cannot acknowledge or return unpublished letters. Those selected for publication may be shortened for space reasons.
achieving fiscal stability was cutting state aid to Massachusetts cities and towns. Passing the buck may be good politics, but it is certainly not proof of good public management.
As to Mr. Safire's claim that Mr. Weld "rejuvenated the Massachusetts economy," one need only look at the loss of 130,000 jobs in Massachusetts since Governor Weld took office. It would not be fair to blame Governor Weld for the economic woes of Massachusetts, just as it would be unfair to credit Governor Dukakis with the "Massachusetts miracle."
But characterizing buck-passing tax policy and continuing job losses as qualifications for the Presidency is unreasonable.
 
JEROME E. RUBIN
Boston, May 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); BONDS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; WELD, WILLIAM F (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1993



546 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 20, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: End the War in Bosnia - Peacefully;
Send NATO Troops to Bosnia

BYLINE: The author of this article is a U.S. official who requested anonymity.

 BODY:
An extraordinary combination of circumstances makes this a propitious moment for a new effort to end the cruel war in Bosnia. It is not a time to step back, although the temptation to do so is strong.
After the defiant vote of Bosnian Serb leaders to reject the Vance-Owen peace plan, and under intense pressure from economic sanctions and President Clinton's credible threat of force, President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia has suddenly stopped encouraging his allies in Bosnia. Boris Yeltsin has made it clear that he supports international peace efforts and will not throw a life preserver to Serbs in either Bosnia or Serbia. Finally, recent fighting around Mostar has reminded the world that Croatia as well as Serbia must be brought to heel if there is to be progress toward peace. 
 If the U.S. and its allies can agree on a strategy to take advantage of these circumstances, they can fashion a new approach that could break Bosnia's spiral of death, prevent a spill-over of the conflict to neighboring lands and discourage nationalist extremists who hope to provoke similar conflicts elsewhere. This would have to be a comprehensive strategy, not a piecemeal approach like those attempted so far, and it would have to be given time to work.
In order to be successful, any framework for peace in the Balkans must meet several tests: It must guarantee respect for internationally recognized borders, though it could hold out the possibility of future adjustments through mutual agreement. It must not reward those who have engaged in odious "ethnic cleansing" in pursuit of racially pure nation-states. And it must strengthen rather than weaken NATO by attracting support from both the United States and its European allies, as well as from Moscow.
Unless such a solution can be found, the carnage in Bosnia will worsen and the message of international impotence will encourage similar conflicts in other parts of Europe and in the former Soviet republics.
Whatever the merits of aerial bombardment against Serb supply lines and artillery positions, it is now clear that European governments will not support it. Nor will they accept a lifting of the arms embargo against Bosnia's Muslim-led Government. The challenge in Bosnia is not to introduce new weaponry but to find ways of reducing the vast arsenals already there.
One promising approach is the idea of "safe havens," which has been raised by the Security Council and finds especially strong support in France. Simply declaring certain besieged cities to be havens and demanding that fighting there cease, however, is not enough. A multilateral ground force is needed to enforce peace in these havens and to show warring factions that it is to their advantage to silence their guns.
This ground force could not succeed unless it included troops from the U.S. President Clinton has, until now, opposed the commitment of American troops in the absence of a peace settlement, but if they were used to help protect safe havens, their role would be essentially defensive, rather than offensive. They would, of course, be in harm's way, as were the 40 U.N. soldiers from other lands who have already lost their lives in the former Yugoslavia. European leaders, however, are right whenthey say that American concern over the killing in Bosnia cannot be taken fully seriously as long as the U.S. is unwilling to share all the risks.
To be credible, such a military force, of 25,000 to 50,000, would have to cooperate with NATO and include Russian troops. It would need a U.N. mandate stronger than the one under which the forces in Bosnia are now
 
 
 




 
operating. The mandate should allow blue-helmeted soldiers to operate under Chapter 7 of the U.N. Charter, which authorizes troops to enforce their will rather than serving simply as observers, mediators and protectors of aid convoys.
This force would first establish a presence in the designated havens, which would include Sarajevo. It would then pursue the urgent goal of silencing the artillery that is pounding these unfortunate communities. To achieve this, the West should introduce a carrot-and-stick policy that, unlike past policies, would seek to increase both the costs of continued defiance and the attractiveness of cooperation.
Within the safe havens, civilian and military authorities would be pressed to comply with the Vance-Owen plan, including disarmament. As soon as they do so, their communities would qualify for protection against further aggression, protection that could include air strikes against artillery positions. In addition, these communities would be offered generous aid for reconstruction. Water and electric supplies would be restored, destroyed homes and public buildings rebuilt and a semblance of normal life restored. Refugees would be invited back.
The considerable costs of reconstruction should be borne by a specially created bank. Since the first havens would be predominantly Muslim, the bank should be financed in large part by wealthy Muslim countries that have expressed willingness to help but have not yet been given a format.
At the same time, hostile forces surrounding the havens must be completely isolated from outside support. Observers with modern monitoring equipment should be posted along Bosnia's borders. No supplies of any kind, with the exception of basic foods and medicine delivered by international agencies, should be permitted to reach fighters who refuse to lay down their weapons or civilian communities that back them. The holdouts would soon find it impossible to grow, produce, buy or sell almost anything at all.
The contrast between relative prosperity within regions that accept the Vance-Owen plan and steep decline in conditions outside them would soon become stark. U.N. troops would seek gradually to expand the size of the havens by promising those outside an end to privation if they cooperate.
President Milosevic should be tested to see if he is really serious about ending support for the Bosnian Serbs. Remembering his record of mendacity, we should proceed warily. But if international monitors verify that he has cut Belgrade's lifeline to the Bosnian Serbs, foreign governments should agree to discuss easing the sanctions that have crippled his country.
President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia should be put to a comparable test. Croatia has regular Army troops fighting in Bosnia, holding down front-line positions against Serb fighters but also terrorizing civilians in Mostar and central Bosnia. Mr. Tudjman should be told that if he does not withdraw them and stop supplying Croatian militias, who are engaged in their own "ethnic cleansing," his country will be punished with sanctions as harsh as those that have been applied against Serbia.
Another incentive should be the presentation of all war crimes cases to the U.N. tribunal to be established for this purpose. Hatred among the three warring sides has reached such a level that there is little confidence in the ability of any of them to prosecute these cases fairly. Turning them over to a body that could guarantee due process would build confidence in the Vance-Owen process and ease fears that the trials would degenerate into orgies of political revenge. The tribunal could also hold out the possibility of amnesty if it could be negotiated by the parties.
This strategy would require re-thinking some assumptions. It would require President Clinton to modify two conditions he has set in the past: He would have to accept the involvement of American ground troops before the signing of a comprehensive peace treaty, since European countries alone would be unwilling to launch such an ambitious new effort. And he would have to permit the deployment of these troops without a firm timetable for their withdrawal.
Another troublesome question is that of getting aid to the safe havens, which at least at the outset would be encircled by hostile fighters. Some aid could be dropped by air, but much would certainly have to be trucked across unfriendly territory. If Serb fighters continue to block these convoys, U.N. ground troops might have to use force to bring them through, increasing the likelihood of casualties.
There are two important reasons to commit military and economic resources to a multilateral effort to bring peace to Bosnia. The first is one to which Americans have already responded, which is the crying need to relieve unimaginable human suffering. The second is that American national security interests are at stake. NATO and the United Nations, the institutions best equipped to keep international peace, have been badly battered by this crisis. If they cannot act now, the world will be even more poorly equipped when the next similar crisis erupts in Eastern Europe or the former Soviet republics.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT; DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT WAR & CONFLICT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); ARMED FORCES (85%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); ARMS EMBARGOES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); POLITICS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993



547 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: New Chief: Computers And Sports

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Donald L. Morchower, who was named acting chief executive of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield , is a former semiprofessional basketball player experienced in computer and systems technology.
"I think I'm in shock; this whole thing has just come so quickly," Mr. Morchower said yesterday. "Now I've got 9,300 employees to be concerned about." 
 Until yesterday, Mr. Morchower was chief operating officer for Empire, focusing primarily on computer technology and customer service. He will serve as acting chief executive officer while the company conducts a search for a permanent chief executive. His salary remains $370,000 a year.
Mr. Morchower, 58, is a native of Bayonne, N.J., who now lives in Manhattan with his wife, Goldie. He graduated from Bayonne High School in 1952, then went to Georgetown University on a basketball scholarship, where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in economics in 1956.
Mr. Morchower played semiprofessional basketball for local teams in the metropolitan region in the late 1950's and early 1960's, including several games against the Harlem Globetrotters..
 
A Computer Programmer
 For the first five years after his graduation from college, Mr. Morchower worked for the Prudential Life Insurance Company of America, first as a computer programmer, then as a systems analyst and eventually as manager of a systems unit.
In 1961, he went to work as a computer analyst in sales for the RCA Corporation. He was with RCA until November 1962, when he joined what was then Haskins & Sells, the accounting company that later became Deloitte & Touche. He worked first as a computer consultant but later was promoted to a partnership in the Haskin & Sells management consulting division.
Mr. Morchower later became the executive in charge of the company's national computer and technology consulting service, advising large corporations on the use of technology and the introduction of new systems. In 1984, he was named the partner in charge of the company's New Jersey management consulting services office.
Mr. Morchower was hired by Empire in July 1987 as chief information officer, in charge of all computer and technology-related activities. He was appointed chief operating officer of Empire in September 1990.
When he is not working "12-hour days," Mr. Morchower said, he likes to play tennis, read novels and travel. The Morchowers have one son, Matthew, 25, the head researcher for CBS-TV's coverage for the 1994 Winter Olympics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald L. Morchower was named Empire's acting chief executive. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AFFF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%); PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (68%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH EXECUTIVES (92%); BASKETBALL (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (66%); OLYMPICS (60%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; MORCHOWER, DONALD L ANN LIVERMORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



548 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
BRITISH HOUSE BACKS UNITY
The House of Commons passed the bill to ratify the Treaty on European Union, moving Britain closer to becoming the 12th and final country to support it. The bill now goes to the House of Lords. A1
 
U.S AND RUSSIA UNITE ON BOSNIA
The United States and Russia agreed to forge a strategy with other European nations that accepts, at least for the moment, the territorial gains made by the Serbs in Bosnia. A1
 

The U.S. named 165 Serbian companies used to evade sanctions. A8
 
News analysis: Hoping that Bosnian Serbs will stop fighting. A8
 
IN JAPAN, DISTRESS FROM LAYOFFS
Plant closings and dismissals cause psychological distress in Japan because people closely identify with companies and because unemployment is considered shameful. A1
 
CANADIAN ORPHANS SUE QUEBEC
Over 5,000 abandoned Canadian children of the 1940's and 1950's were improperly classified as mentally retarded and committed to several of Quebec's 16 psychiatric hospitals, run by the Catholic Church. A3
 
RUSSIA WARNS OF ATOMIC LEAK
Russian scientists warned that plutonium from nuclear warheads could leak from a nuclear submarine that sank in the North Atlantic off Norway four years ago and spread more than 60 miles and possibly poison major fishing grounds. A5
 
HEAVY FIGHTING IN CAMBODIA
Heavy fighting in Cambodia was reported between Government soldiers and the Khmer Rouge in the countryside where voting is now expected to be all but impossible. A5
 
VENEZUELAN HEADED FOR TRIAL
President Carlos Andres Perez said he would surrender his powers to defend himself in an impeachment trial after the Supreme Court ruled there were grounds to prosecute him for corruption. A6
 
COLOMBIAN JETLINER IS FOUND
The wreckage of a Colombian jetliner was discovered near a mountaintop in northwestern Colombia. None of the 132 people on board are believed to have survived. A6
 
CUBANS AFFLICTED BY BLINDNESS
A disease that impairs vision and affects the nerves has struck almost 26,000 Cubans, apparently because of a nutritional deficiency, probably a lack of vitamin B1, thiamine. A7
 
IRAQ FIRES ON U.S. JETS
American warplanes patrolling the no-flight zone over southern Iraq were met with antiaircraft fire on three separate occasions this week but did not return fire. A9
 
Tiraspol Journal: When will the Russians leave Moldova? A4
 
National A10-18
 
CHANGING MALPRACTICE SYSTEM
President Clinton's advisers outlined a proposal to change the medical malpractice system by removing legal responsibility for negligence from individual doctors. A1
 
HEALTH PLAN FACES QUESTIONS
Interest groups are ready to offer their opinions on President Clinton's health care plan, gearing up for a fight ahead. A14
 
SENATORS OFFER BUDGET OPTION
An influential, bipartisan group of Senators has proposed an alternative to President Clinton's budget, with fewer tax increases and deeper spending cuts. A1
 
The fight on the budget turns Senators into strange bedfellows. A16
 
CLINTON BACKTRACKS ON CHARGES
The Clinton Administration acknowledged that it took action against the White House travel staff after a close friend of the President sought opportunities for colleagues in the travel industry. A1
 
CONSERVATIVES OPPOSE NOMINEE
Conservative Republicans have launched a campaign against the nominee for Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who is a lesbian. A12
 
MORE BASES SLATED TO CLOSE
A Presidential panel studying what military bases to shrink or close is planning to add 20 more sites to the Pentagon's list. A15
 
FOREIGN DRUG LABELS DEFICIENT
A Congressional office has found that more than two-thirds of the labels for American-made drugs sold in foreign countries are deficient and potentially dangerous. A18
 
MORE WOULD ENTER HIGH BRACKET
The tax bill would draw many taxpayers into the highest tax brackets next year by delaying the usual adjustment for inflation. A17
 
LAWYER CALLS TEEN MENACING
A defense lawyer said a teen-age tourist from Japan who was killed in Louisiana was acting in a menacing way before he was shot. A10
 
EDITOR SPEAKS FROM GRAVE
A deposition from The New Yorker's former editor, William Shawn, was read to bolster the claims of Jeffrey Masson in his libel suit against Janet Malcolm. A10
 
The President's haircut closed an airport for two hours Tuesday. A10
 
Researchers found a spring that helps viruses infect humans. A18
 
Law Page B9
 
For Supreme Court Justices, plenty of time to travel.
 
Senate Republicans say they'll fight Lani Guinier's nomination.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
EMPIRE BOARD FORCED CHANGE
The board of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield forced the resignation of the company's top executive, Albert A. Cardone, after an internal inquiry revealed deep management and morale problems inside the nation's largest nonprofit health insurance company, board members and others said yesterday. A1
 
NUCLEAR WASTE SITE IN DOUBT
South Carolina, the only place in the country besides Washington State with a low-level radioactive waste site, is finally running out of patience with New York State. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-27
 
Dusk, when the city wakes up. C1
 
Competition at Cannes. C1
 
Scorcese's inspiration. C1
 
Sports B10-18
 
Obituaries B8
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
A bipartisan disservice.
 
China's cruelty, women's rights.
 
The value of colon cancer tests.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Trickle-down mercy.
 
Anthony Lewis: Sleaze with footnotes.
 
Kevin Vigilante: Free lunch is dangerous to health.
 
Timothy D. Searchinger: Money down the drain.
 
Nathan Glazer: Academic freedom? Academic farce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: NEWS SUMMARY (NYT)

TICKER: A (AMEX) (83%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CANADA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (71%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CANADA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (88%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); CLOSINGS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); LITIGATION (73%); NEGLIGENCE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (69%); HOSPITALS (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (67%); MENTAL RETARDATION (67%); NUTRITION (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (63%); BLINDNESS (62%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



549 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Senators Put Up A New Obstacle In Budget Fight

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
An influential bipartisan group of Senators threw a new obstacle in the path of President Clinton's budget plan today by offering an alternative proposal with fewer tax increases and deeper spending cuts.
The new plan itself stands no chance of passing in its present form, but it could provide a starting point for negotiations on changes to the President's plan. Its announcement raises new questions about whether the President's measures will command enough support to be approved by the House of Representatives next week and about the prospects when the legislation reaches the Senate.
 
President Calls Plan Unfair
 At the White House, Mr. Clinton denounced the alternative as a shift of the deficit-reduction burden "from wealthy Americans right onto the people just above the poverty line, the elderly and the working poor." 
 The central part of the plan is a rejection of the fuel tax that is one of the main revenue raisers in Mr. Clinton's program. Other spending cuts would come from placing a ceiling on Medicare and Medicaid expenses and limiting the annual cost-of-living increases for retired people getting Social Security and other Federal pensions above $600 a month.
The group offering the new plan was led by Senators David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, and John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri, both senior members of the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over tax bills. They were joined at a news conference in the Capitol this morning by Senators J. Bennett Johnston, Democrat of Louisiana, and William S. Cohen, Republican of Maine.
"This plan," Mr. Boren said, "represents a third option in addition to the unacceptable choices of either doing nothing about reducing the budget deficit or reducing it mainly through tax increases."
Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Democratic leader, said he was still convinced that the President's plan would pass Congress largely intact.
 
Possible Effects in House
 But the immediate consequence of the proposal is that it could cause anxiety among wavering Democratic representatives, just when Mr. Clinton thought he had sewed up a majority in the House with his visit to the Capitol on Wednesday morning.
The House plans to vote on the Clinton proposal next Thursday. Some lawmakers who would like to support it worry that they will cast a politically risky vote only to have Mr. Clinton strike a compromise in the Senate.
Democrats in Congress overwhelmingly back Mr. Clinton's proposal, and almost all Republicans oppose any plan to raise taxes. But the four Senators could hold the balance of power.
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, depicted their plan as the opening wedge in negotiations, a point disputed by most Democrats.
The four Senators calculated that their plan would lower the deficit by $542 billion over five years, more than the $496 billion proposed by Mr. Clinton, but the accuracy of their figures has not been completely reviewed by the Congressional Budget Office.
The new proposal would reduce spending by $2 for every $1 that taxes would be raised. The Clinton plan, by contrast, is divided evenly between tax increases and spending cuts.
In addition to the new fuel tax, the bipartisan group rejected Clinton plans to lift the $135,000 salary limit above which Medicare taxes are not owed and to increase the tax on diesel fuel for barges in inland waterways.
The four favor the higher tax rates on wealthy individuals and corporations that Mr. Clinton wants, but they would postpone the effective date for six months until June 30, 1993. They would also adjust the value of capital gains for inflation that occurs after the first of this year.
No other senators endorsed the plan. Several senators who had been negotiating with them for days, including John B. Breaux of Louisiana and Kent Conrad of North Dakota, both Democrats, and John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, a Republican, dropped out.
Congressional authorities said the Administration had won Mr. Breaux's support by promising him a tax break for exported petrochemical products and had turned Mr. Conrad around by supporting tax breaks for farmers. Mr. Johnston was not brought into the group until about 6 P.M. Wednesday.
Mr. Boren is the pivotal figure. He holds the swing vote on the Finance Committee, where Democrats have a majority of only 11 to 9. Since the Republican members have announced that they will vote against the Clinton budget, a bill cannot get out of the committee without Mr. Boren's vote.
His main motive and that of Mr. Johnston seem to be to kill the proposed fuel tax, which might damage the economy in oil-producing states like Oklahoma and Louisiana.
The Clinton plan would raise $72 billion over five years from a new tax on fuels based on the amount of heat they generate. To discourage their use, a surcharge would be placed on oil products, except heating oil. When fully effective, the Administration says, it would cause typical families about $200 a year. The cost to families with incomes below about $30,000 would be offset by income tax credits.
Opponents of the energy tax, especially the oil industry, have lobbied intensively against it. The aluminum industry and farming interests want exemptions from its provisions.
 
Prospects of Energy Tax
 Mr. Johnston proclaimed the energy tax "dead," saying it could never win a majority in the Senate. But the two Democrats, as well as Mr. Danforth and Mr. Cohen, were also responding to what seems to be a popular view in the country that more spending cuts are necessary if taxes are to be increased.
The cuts they proposed would be unpopular, striking at such sacred cows as Social Security, and slashing Medicare and Medicaid before President Clinton even offers his plan to restrain health care costs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David L. Boren speaking at news conference as a bipartisan group of Senators proposed an alternative budget plan. With him were, from left, William S. Cohen, J. Bennett Johnston and John C. Danforth. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); FUEL TAX (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); MEDICARE (73%); AGING (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); MEDICAID (53%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BOREN, DAVID L (SEN); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN); JOHNSTON, J BENNETT (SEN); DANFORTH, JOHN C (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); DAN BOREN (89%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



550 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: CHANGING HEALTH CARE;
CLINTON ADVISERS OUTLINE BIG SHIFT FOR MALPRACTICE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
President Clinton's advisers outlined a proposal today for sweeping change in the handling of medical malpractice lawsuits under which individual doctors would be relieved of legal responsibility for negligence.
Instead of suing their doctors, injured patients would sue insurance companies and health maintenance organizations that employ the doctors. 
 Dr. Robert Berenson, a senior member of the staff of Mr. Clinton's Task Force on National Health Care Reform, said the proposal was based on the idea of "enterprise liability." Corporate enterprises -- networks of doctors, hospitals and insurance companies -- would be legally responsible for injuries caused by a doctor's negligence, he said.
Under this approach, Dr. Berenson said: "Settlements would occur many years earlier in many cases. Patients would get the compensation they need, would get their rehabilitation and their lost wages, instead of having the sort of lottery that now takes five or 10 years."
 
Informal Hearings
 Health plans would be more likely to settle meritorious claims through informal hearings and other alternatives to litigation, he said. Now, 60 percent of the costs associated with malpractice represent court costs and payments to lawyers, not payments to injured patients, he said.
Further savings would be achieved by making health plans responsible for setting guidelines and monitoring the quality of care delivered by doctors, officials said. Doctors who follow the guidelines would not be as vulnerable to malpractice charges as they are now, they said. Many experts believe the guidelines themselves are likely to improve the overall quality of medical care and may also discourage doctors from performing unneeded tests and procedures.
Doctors have long sought changes in the handling of malpractice cases, and the White House apparently hoped to win their support. But doctors' groups complained today that the plan would lead to intrusive supervision of their care by insurance companies and other corporate enterprises.
The Administration contends that its proposal can reduce litigation costs, but does not envision huge savings. It does say the proposal can benefit consumers by giving health plans strong incentives to monitor and improve the quality of care.
Mr. Clinton will also ask Congress to establish certain legal standards and uniform procedures for the handling of malpractice cases, Administration officials said. The handling of such claims is now governed mainly by state law and, as a result, varies widely from state to state.
Dr. Berenson, the head of a committee working on malpractice, and Kathleen Hastings, a member of the committee, gave details of the Administration's thinking at separate conferences today.
Describing the proposal, Dr. Berenson said: "A health plan would be liable for the negligent acts of its contracted or employed practitioners and providers. The individual physician would not be personally liable for negligence, but rather the health plan would be."
President Clinton originally intended to send his health plan to Congress by May 3, but has fallen behind schedule, and the White House now says he will not unveil it before mid-June. Congress is sure to alter it, but lawmakers express confidence that they will pass legislation by the end of next year to remake the nation's health-care system.
 
No Final Decisions
 Mr. Clinton has not made final decisions about the details of his health plan. But Dr. Berenson said the staff of the task force had recommended the idea of enterprise liability to Mr. Clinton.
Dr. Berenson said he still favored the proposal despite opposition by doctors and insurance companies. Insurers dislike the proposal because they expect to form and operate many of the new health-care networks and they would be defendants in many malpractice lawsuits. Doctors and insurers fear that the number of lawsuits will rise because consumers will perceive big insurance companies as having deep pockets.
Kirk B. Johnson, senior vice president and general counsel of the American Medical Association, said that the White House was initially surprised at the doctors' opposition but that it was going full steam ahead with the proposal.
Doctors fear "there will be a very significant loss of physician autonomy" as corporate enterprises supervise the practice of medicine in minute detail, he said.
Dr. Berenson said the corporate enterprise, or the health plan, could establish and enforce guidelines for its doctors, so "there will be much more consistent oversight of practitioner activities."
Insurers do not relish such a role. "It gets us involved in the practice of medicine," said James W. McLane, chief executive of Aetna health plans, a unit of Aetna Life and Casualty. "It doesn't do anything but shift responsibility for malpractice from doctors and hospitals to another entity."
Consumer groups reacted cautiously, expressing neither strong support nor vehement opposition. They do not see the proposal as a big improvement or setback for consumers.
Linda A. Lipsen, chief lobbyist for Consumers Union, said the proposal for enterprise liability was better than proposals that would limit payments to patients injured at the hands of doctors and hospitals. The task force is apparently still considering such limits, long advocated by doctors groups.
Dr. Berenson said the task force proposal would cut the costs of litigation. "We would move to a single defendant as opposed to the current system, where we have multiple defendants, all sort of pointing the finger at each other," he said. "This structural change anticipates where the health system is going anyway. Health care is no longer a case of a single practitioner and a patient. For virtually any service, you're going to have integrated teams of professionals working together. In 10 or 15 years, the whole system is going to be this way. We want to juice the system a little bit and move it faster."
 
Program Called Untested
 But Mr. Johnson of the A.M.A. said enterprise liability had not been tested. "It's an academic concept that on paper achieves several goals, but in practice it raises very serious questions," he said. For example, he explained, doctors fear that corporate health plans will find it expedient to settle cases where the doctors met the prevailing standard of care.
Mr. Johnson said a health plan could usurp the doctors' authority by telling them, in effect: "You are an employee. You belong to us. We will decide if you performed negligently. We will settle the case for you."
Under the proposal described by Dr. Berenson, health plans would buy insurance to cover malpractice claims, or they could serve as their own insurers. Doctors would not have to pay premiums for such coverage, but they might get lower salaries if the health plan had to pay high premiums and large claims.
The cost of insurance would be a cost of doing business, and "the health plan would have to pass on its costs in its compensation package to physicians," Dr. Berenson said.
The Government says doctors spend $5 billion to $6 billion a year on malpractice insurance premiums, with hospitals spending half again as much. But malpractice premiums account for less than 1 percent of national health spending.
The American Medical Association says that defensive medicine, which includes extra tests ordered to protect doctors against legal claims, costs more than $15 billion a year. But the Congressional Budget Office says that many of those tests "would probably be undertaken for other reasons," and that "the threat of malpractice suits may have improved the quality of medical practice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, told the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee of the need for health-care improvements. (Reuters) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MALPRACTICE; DOCTORS; LAWYERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NEGLIGENCE (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); LAWYERS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (CHMN) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



551 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 
 John A. Rollwagen withdrew his nomination as Deputy Secretary of Commerce. The former chief executive of Cray Research said it was not an S.E.C. investigation into insider trading that changed his mind but rather his "culture shock" at dealing with government processes. [Page D1.]
A bipartisan group of Senators threw an obstacle in the path of President Clinton's budget plan, offering an alternative with fewer tax increases and deeper spending cuts. [A1.] 
 The former chief of Drexel Burnham Lambert was barred from any supervisory role in the securities industry for three years. The penalty against Frederick H. Joseph, the former executive, and an identical one against Edwin Kantor, a Drexel supervisor, concluded the Government's investigation of Drexel. [D1.]
Computer companies warned the F.C.C. that they would develop a separate standard for high-definition television if the Government chose a technology favored by broadcasters. [D5.]
 
Markets
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 23.25 points to 3,523.28, another record, after a late surge aided by extraordinarily heavy computerized trading. [D10.] Shares shorted neared record levels on the New York and American exchanges early this month. [D20.]
Some companies are offering 50-year bonds, just weeks after the Treasury slashed its auctions of 30-year bonds. [D1.]
The dollar declined and the mark's gains were muted, while gold rose modestly. [D17.] A Midwest cold snap lifted corn and soybean futures. [D17.]
 
Companies
Leonard Tow, who runs a small public-utility company, Citizens Utilities in Stamford, Conn., received $21.6 million last year, according to an independent valuation. [D1.]
Investors in Spectrum Information Technologies began selling, and the stock, which has topped the Nasdaq most-active list for the last three days, plunged $5.75, to $6 a share. [D1.]
Chrysler sued to end a dealer franchise, claiming that a Maryland dealer provided poor customer service. [D2.]
A $1.18 billion all-cash offer by Carl C. Icahn was rejected by the bankrupt E-II Holdings and its creditors. [D3.]
Applause but no ovation greeted Citicorp's hiring of Christopher J. Steffen, the cost-cutter who quit Eastman Kodak. [D1.]
Sony and Matsushita Electric reported steep drops in earnings for the fiscal year that ended March 31. [D3.]
Computer Associates's net income rose 72 percent, and its mainframe software business grew 21 percent for the year. [D3.]
Triton Energy said tests confirmed a huge oil find in Colombia. One analyst said the news would save the company. [D3.]
Cargill will enter the recycling business, building a plant in Minnesota to make plastic out of corn and potatoes. [D5.]
The owner of Jack-in-the-Box and two buyout groups agreed to acquire Restaurant Enterprises. [D3.]
 
International
Plant closings and dismissals cause psychological distress in Japan because unemployment is considered shameful. [A1.]
A German labor leader was accused of insider trading based on information he gained as a member of Daimler-Benz's board. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
Speculative frenzy surrounds the stock of Andrea Electronics, and yesterday the American Stock Exchange said its trades would have to be on a cash basis. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D10.]
BMW will trumpet its cars' value and safety, as well as performance, in a new advertising campaign intended to broaden its market. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CA (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); SITI SITES.COM INC (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); E-II HOLDINGS INC (52%); CA INC (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); FUTURES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (72%); CHEMICALS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); FRANCHISING (67%); CLOSINGS (66%); PLANT CLOSINGS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (53%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



552 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Man Wins $1 Million Sex Harassment Suit

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 20

 BODY:
In what legal experts say is the largest judgment of its kind, a jury has awarded more than $1 million to a male former manager at a spa manufacturing company who sued his former female supervisor, claiming she had sexually harassed him daily on the job for six years.
Experts in sexual harassment and lawyers in the case said that while other men have successfully claimed sexual harassment by women superiors, they knew of no lawsuits involving such a large damage award. In part that is because California law imposes no limits on damages in such cases, whereas most other states and the Federal Government either ban or place strict caps on punitive damages when employees claim sexual harassment. 
 The case has drawn attention to a problem that some legal experts say has been overlooked in the current focus on harassment of women by male superiors.
"We believe that all persons, including men, have a right to a workplace free of the hostile and intolerable conditions of sexual harassment," said Gloria Allred, the lawyer for the manager, Sabino Gutierrez, 33, of Ontario, Calif. "Men are also entitled to freedom from sex discrimination and the emotional and economic harm that sexual harassment inflicts."
The United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reported that last year, 968 out of a total of 10,577 sexual harassment claims were filed by men. In 1991 the figure was 514 out of a total of 6,886. The commission figures do not indicate whether the claims were directed toward men or women.
Susan Estrich, who teaches sex discrimination law at the University of Southern California, said men were usually more reluctant than women to come forward with claims of sexual harassment. "Traditionally, our imagery is that men should enjoy this and should consider themselves lucky," Professor Estrich said. "The reality is that not all men do enjoy this."
The Superior Court jury of 10 women and 2 men voted unanimously on Tuesday to award Mr. Gutierrez $375,000 in compensatory damages for emotional distress and $82,000 for lost earnings and benefits. They also awarded him $560,000 in punitive damages, including $10,000 assessed against Mr. Gutierrez' former supervisor, Maria Martinez.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (91%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; WOMEN SEXUAL HARASSMENT (94%); DAMAGES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); MEN (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); WOMEN (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); 

PERSON: GUTIERREZ, SABINO; MARTINEZ, MARIA GLORIA ALLRED (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



553 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Leader Quits to Face Trial

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, May 20

 BODY:
President Carlos Andres Perez said today that he would surrender his powers in order to defend himself against corruption charges in an impeachment trial.
The president of the Senate, Octavio Lepage, is expected to become Acting President on Friday. Within 30 days, Congress is to elect a President to serve until Feb. 2, the end of Mr. Perez's five-year term. 
 The latest Latin American leader to run afoul of corruption charges, Mr. Perez fell victim to a Supreme Court decision today recognizing that grounds exist to prosecute him on charges of embezzling and misappropriating $17 million in Government funds.
The Senate, which is controlled by Mr. Perez's enemies, is expected to vote Friday to authorize the impeachment trial, which seems certain to stretch far beyond Feb. 2.
 
'Never Any Crime,' He Says
 "I will hand over my office to the president of Congress," Mr. Perez said in a defiant television speech that reviewed his half-century of participation in Venezuelan politics. Saying he was "neither vanquished nor defeated," the President added: "There never was any crime."
Mr. Perez's fall from power marks the end of the career of a grand old man of Latin American politics, a 70-year-old survivor of jailings, exile, Communist guerrillas and, last year, two military coup attempts.
But residents of this capital greeted the Supreme Court vote with whistles and firecrackers and the banging of pots. With horns blowing, caravans of cars streamed through streets near the modern Supreme Court building, passing walls daubed with anti-Perez graffiti reading "Jail for the Big Rat Perez."
"Honesty has triumphed," bellowed an opposition congressman, Orlando Fernandez, as joyous crowds waved flags and celebrated outside the whitewashed neo-classical Congress building. At nightfall, the police fired tear gas to disperse a crowd of 1,000 people chanting anti-Perez slogans, but by late evening the streets seemed quiet.
Nevertheless, some business people worried about the political stability of Venezuela, which has the hemisphere's largest oil reserves. The country's 35-year-old civilian democracy is Latin America's oldest.
Venezuela is the second-largest source of United States oil imports, after Saudi Arabia, and per capita its 20 million inhabitants are Latin America's largest importers of American products.
Sometimes called "Miami with mountains," this highly Americanized capital is a mix of expressways, glass-sheathed high-rises and shantytowns, all cupped in a verdant bowl.
"The oil will keep flowing, but our concern is over the economic reforms," an American diplomat said today, echoing uncertainty here that Venezuela's next President will continue Mr. Perez's four-year-old campaign to dismantle state controls over the economy.
 
Cabinet Submits Resignations
 To smooth a seemingly inevitable transfer of power, all members of Mr. Perez's Cabinet submitted their resignations today.
Irrespective of the impeachment drive, candidates are already campaigning for Venezuela's presidential elections, which are to be held Dec. 5.
In a separate campaign, Mr. Perez promised tonight to stump the nation over the next six months, trying to clear his name "for history."
"I've never enriched myself," the embattled leader said in his address. "There has been a systematic, long and obsessive campaign against me and my Government."
During the trial, Mr. Perez will continue to enjoy the title of President and will live in the official residence, La Casona.
"We are going to have two presidents -- a titular president without any authority -- and a President elected by Congress, with all authority," Arturo Uslar Pietri, a prominent Venezuelan novelist, complained after watching the speech. "This will condemn the nation to anarchy and disaster."
 
Two Aides Face Trial
 According to prosecutors, Mr. Perez and two former aides, Reinaldo Figueredo and Alejandro Izaguirre, profitted from a multimillion dollar currency manipulation a few days after Mr. Perez took office in February 1989.
The prosecutors charge that about $10 million was made by first changing a discretionary fund into dollars at a preferential rate. After a 88 percent devaluation of Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, the dollars were changed back into bolivars. The two aides also face trial.
"Venezuela is undertaking a struggle against corruption -- not a personal persecution," said the author of the impeachment petition, Ramon Escovar Salom, the Attorney General.
Last week the president of Mr. Prez's party, Humberto Celli, told reporters that Mr. Perez's resignation would be "the least traumatic way out."
Seeking to instill more democracy in this nation, Latin America's wealthiest, Mr. Perez appointed independent judges to the Supreme Court, spoke out against corruption and pushed for democratic elections of state governors. To some here, Mr. Perez, often referred to as CAP, his initials, has fallen victim to these very forces of modernization.
Jose Vicente Rangel, a journalist and bitter opponent of the President, said: "The important thing is that CAP will be removed without one shot fired, without one garrison rising up. This shows the institutions of democracy are functioning."
 
Other Leaders Fall
 After two years of military uprisings and violent student street protests, Mr. Perez was finally brought down by the bane of Latin American politicians in the 1990's -- a corruption charge.
First, the Peruvian President, Alberto K. Fujimori, closed courts and the Congress in April of last year, charging that corruption had made the institutions useless. A wave of popular support greeted the moves.
In Brazil, President Fernando Collor de Mello was forced to resign in December after a Senate impeachment trial began on charges that he benefited from a multimillion-dollar kickback ring.
In Argentina, corruption charges forced several close aides to President Carlos Saul Menem to resign over the last two years.

 Feb. 2, 1989: Mr. Perez is inaugurated and quickly adopts a free-market economic plan, cutting subsidies and ending price and foreign-exchange controls.
Feb. 27, 1989: Riots break out in Caracas, with about 300 people killed.
Feb. 4, 1992: Rebellious army units attack the presidential palace and residence, killing about 40 people. Loyal troops quell Venezuela's first coup attempt in 30 years.
Nov. 27, 1992: Air force units rebel and bomb the presidential palace. Coup leaders accuse Mr. Perez of refusing to move against corruption and political cliques. Order is restored, but at a cost of about 230 lives.
PUB-DATE: March 11, 1993:
May 5: Newspapers print excerpts from the opinion by the Chief Justice calling for an impeachment trial.
May 14: Humberto Celli, the head of Mr. Perez's Democratic Action Party, calls on the President to resign if the Supreme Court rules there is merit in the corruption charges.
May 19: On the eve of the Supreme Court vote, Mr. Perez vows to fight the charges, and Perez loyalists oust Mr. Celli as party leader.
May 20: Mr. Perez says he will surrender authority to defend himself after the Supreme Court rules that grounds exist to prosecute him on corruption charges.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela during his televised address to the nation last night.; The Venezuela Supreme Court's decision clearing the way for the prosecution of Mr. Perez on charges of embezzling $17 million was greeted with cheers yesterday in Caracas by opponents of the President. (Associated Press)
 
 
 
Stormy Days in Caracas

 
1974-79: Carlos Andres Perez, a free-spending populist, serves as President of Venezuela at the height of its oil boom. He ends his term under the cloud of a kickback scandal, but press accusations do not lead to formal prosecution. By law, a President must wait 10 years before serving a second term.
Dec. 4, 1988: With Venezuela newly impoverished by a drop in the price of oil, its main export, Mr. Perez is again elected. ; Map of Venezuela showing location of Caracas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Chronology

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBEZZLEMENT; ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT SUPREME COURTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ETHICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); APPEALS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); MISAPPROPRIATION (75%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); COUPS (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); RIOTS (64%); IMPORT TRADE (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES (PRES); LEPAGE, OCTAVIO; BROOKE, JAMES CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



554 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says 165 Concerns Help Belgrade Defy U.N.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
Stepping up the economic pressure on Belgrade, the United States today identified a worldwide network of 165 Serbian companies that it said were being used by Belgrade to defy United Nations sanctions.
The Administration also barred American companies from doing business with the Serbian concerns and urged foreign governments to freeze the assets of the companies. 
 "Yugoslavia has continued to conduct its international trade and to earn hard currency through its network of foreign-located subsidiaries, branches and representative offices," said R. Richard Newcomb, director of the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
 
The Yugoslav Connection
 Mr. Newcomb said that naming the companies would "help expose and interdict the millions of dollars in Yugoslav Government assets flowing between private bank vaults abroad."
With the United States and its allies at odds over how to quell the fighting in the Balkans, economic sanctions remain the main form of leverage on Belgrade.
The Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, has said he has closed the Serbian border to Bosnia to all but food and medical relief. But some trucks continue to cross the border, and United States officials have expressed skepticism about Mr. Milosevic's intentions in his late support of the United Nations-European Community peace plan, which has been repeatedly rejected by his Serbian colleagues in Bosnia.
 
A Test for U.S. Allies
 Publication of the list of Serbian companies will not only increase pressure on Belgrade, but also effectively put many United States allies to a test. Russia and Western European nations, which have stressed the need to press Belgrade and the Bosnian Serbs to stop the fighting in the Balkans, are now being asked to freeze the assets of the companies on their territory.
Under the Security Council resolution adopted last month to tighten economic sanctions on Yugoslavia, United Nations members are required to take action against companies identified as working on behalf of Belgrade.
Many of the 165 companies named by the United States were once part of the state-run trading system of Yugoslavia, which now consists of Serbia and Montenegro. Although these companies are no longer state-owned, United States officials say, they are still taking orders from Belgrade.
"The companies named today either are organized or located in Yugoslavia or are owned or controlled by other Yugoslavia-based companies or the Yugoslav Government," the Treasury Department said in a statement today.
 
Source of Foreign Exchange
 The Administration says some of the companies have been a useful source of foreign currency for Serbia. By earning foreign exchange, the companies are able to finance attempts to buy and deliver goods to Serbia in violation of United Nations sanctions.
United States officials said that other companies listed as being under Belgrade's control are not currently believed to be actively involved in circumventing the trade ban. But the officials worry that some dormant companies controlled by Yugoslavia could be activated as other parts of the trading network are shut down.
Many of the companies are foreign branches of General Export and Inex-Interexport Ltd., Serbian-based trading companies. Others are individual companies located around the world.
The network reaches well into Russia and Eastern Europe. The Treasury Department named companies in Russia, Ukraine, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania and Poland as being under the control of Yugoslavia.
 
Companies in West Europe
 Companies based in Western Europe that are controlled by Yugoslavia are located in Germany, Italy, Greece, Britain, Norway, France, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Finland and Liechtenstein, the Treasury Department said.
A number of companies are in Cyprus, long a focus of concern because of Yugoslav banks and companies there. Some companies identified as being under Yugoslav control are in Arab and Islamic nations, which have been demanding that tough action be taken to protect the Bosnian Muslims against Serbian attacks.
Specifically, the Treasury Department listed companies in Kuwait, Syria, Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco, Iraq, Turkey and Libya as being under Yugoslav control.
 
Companies In Iran
 Export companies in Iran, which has been shipping arms to the Muslims, were also named, as were companies in Pakistan, Bangladesh and India.
Other concerns that have reportedly worked for the Serbs can be found in Israel, China, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Armenia, the Sudan, Togo, Zambia, Cuba, Australia and Canada.
None of the companies listed today are based in the United States, though a dozen of them have done business with American companies, according to United States officials.
The Treasury Department also named five individuals as working on behalf of Belgrade. They include Bosko Kostic at AY Bank Ltd., the Anglo-Yugoslav bank in England. Another is Miodrag Zecevic at the Banque Franco Yugoslav in Paris.
A senior Administration official said the identification of the companies was likely to prompt Belgrade to "go covert" and establish a new underground network of companies to support sanctions-busting efforts.
"We will seek to identify the underground network as well, to the extent we have the resources to do it," the official said.
An assessment by the Central Intelligence Agency earlier this year concluded that sanctions alone were unlikely to halt the fighting in Bosnia, in part because the Bosnian Serbs had large stocks of weapons and were being resupplied by the Yugoslav Government. Some experts believe, however, that Belgrade could slow the fighting if Mr. Milosevic enforced the strict blockade on the Bosnian Serbs, as he has vowed to do.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Bosnian Muslim woman reacting to the sight of her burned-out home in Vitez after being escorted back to her neighborhood yesterday by British soldiers of the United Nations force. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

COMPANY: FOREIGN EXCHANGE LTD (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



555 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Budget Rebels Defy Parties' Leaders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
The first serious challenge to President Clinton's tax plan springs mostly out of an odd sort of no man's land between the two major parties, a wilderness where philosophies overlap and the residents have adapted to political survival without outside help.
It appears to be an exceedingly small place. 
 Senator David L. Boren of Oklahoma is a fiscal conservative among the Democrats, who have embraced the President's plan for a record tax increase and a raft of bold and costly new Federal programs. Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri is a fiscal liberal, as Republicans go, in a party that has forsworn any increase in taxes, however dire the nation's budgetary straits.
Mutually aghast over the ballooning Federal deficit but in shock over Mr. Clinton's plans to deal with it, Mr. Boren and Mr. Danforth spent the last week scouring the Senate for like-minded lawmakers who would break ranks with their parties and endorse an alternative tax plan. In the end, they found only two: William S. Cohen, a Maine Republican, and J. Bennett Johnston, a Louisiana Democrat.
"This is a group that gathered because of a sincere feeling that the President's package was lopsided on taxes and didn't have enough spending cuts," said Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, a Danforth-style Republican who flirted with joining them but elected this morning not to. "I have to commend anyone who's courageous enough to propose a solution."
 
Pivotal Political Battle
 Courageous, certainly, for they are defying their White House or Republican leaders in what is shaping up as the year's pivotal political battle. At least five others senators, all "deficit hawks" who want deeper cuts in the budget, flirted with the Boren-Danforth cabal, but demurred for political or ideological reasons. They included Democrats like Sam Nunn of Georgia and Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Republicans like Rhode Island's John Chafee.
But only fools rush in, and none of these Senators are fools. Their bravery is fortified by the security of a rock-solid Senate seat, the predominance of home-state opinion, the prospect of substantial political gain, or all three.
Republicans are at somewhat less political risk because their votes are not needed to enact Mr. Clinton's plan. And no Republican is less encumbered by political pressures than Mr. Danforth, who has said he will retire next year to return to private legal practice or the priesthood.
But none has been more outspoken about the threat posed by the deficit, either. "Danforth has warned about the danger of the deficit since the mid-80's," said one lobbyist who knows him well. "He's never worried about the politics; he just believes you ought to roll up your sleeves, do something and the heck with the consequences."
The other Republican, Mr. Cohen, shares Mr. Danforth's fiscal leanings and Mr. Boren's bent for independence. Befitting a state that gave Ross Perot one of his strongest showings in last November's election, Mr. Cohen is one of the Senate's least partisan Republicans. He also is a close friend of Mr. Boren, having served as vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee when he headed the panel in the last term of Congress. Never a strong Republican, Mr. Cohen risks little by advocating the same sort of deficit reduction that Perot supporters would logically favor.
 
Blessed With Safe Seat
 But Senator Boren, in particular, is taking a leap that friends say is rooted in principle but could produce big political gains. He is the swing vote on the Finance Committee, the Senate panel through which Mr. Clinton's tax-and-spending package must pass before reaching a final vote.
A senator since 1978 and Governor of Oklahoma before that, the 52-year-old Mr. Boren is blessed with one of the safest seats in the Senate -- and with that, has the ability to take on political tasks that might daunt less popular politicians. For example, he is the chief sponsor of Senate legislation to overhaul campaign-spending laws, a proposal many lawmakers enthusiastically favor in principle but would just as soon forget in private.
On campaign finance and many other issues, Senator Boren has worked to shape his own natural conservatism as much as possible to fit the Clinton Administration's policies.
Like the President, he is a Yale graduate and a Rhodes Scholar. But he broke ranks with Mr. Clinton on fiscal issues early this year. And with his latest protest, Mr. Boren is staking out a position as a Democratic pinch penny, a stand that could prove valuable if the President falters.
 
Opposed Stimulus Plan
 In March, Mr. Boren was one of two Senate Democrats who publicly opposed Mr. Clinton's proposal to spend $19 billion on an emergency package of jobs and public works projects, asserting that the President was raising the deficit before he cut the first cent from the Federal budget.
The White House scoffed, but the Senator proved prescient. Democratic leaders were never able to generate enough public support for the President's economic stimulus bill to break a Republican filibuster that eventually killed it outright.
In some other Democrats' view, Senator Boren and Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, another conservative Democrat, are the politicians who made opposition to the President a credible alternative when they spoke out against the economic stimulus package this spring.
And in the view of some Senate Republicans, it is Mr. Boren who is again making it conceivable -- even respectable -- to think of altering Mr. Clinton's tax plan, long after both houses of Congress had approved it in concept.
Mr. Johnston's motivations appear somewhat less lofty than Mr. Boren's.
Mr. Johnston has a reputation as one of the quietest and most adroit political tacticians in Congress. He is a relentless advocate of Louisiana's interests, and is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, where policies affecting Louisiana's petroleum industry are cast.
Neither Mr. Johnston nor his junior colleague from Louisiana, Mr. Breaux, like the White House proposal to levy a tax on energy, and Mr. Johnston's decision to join Mr. Boren seems based as much on the prospect of changing that tax as on his concern about deficits. Indeed, Senate aides say Mr. Johnston did not join Mr. Boren's bandwagon until late Wednesday after his protege, Mr. Breaux, elected not to publicly oppose the President.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BOREN, DAVID L (SEN); JOHNSTON, J BENNETT (SEN); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN); DANFORTH, JOHN C (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); DAN BOREN (79%); KENT CONRAD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



556 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Panel Expanding List for Base Closings

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
A Presidential commission studying which military bases to shrink or close is planning to add about 20 sites to the list the Pentagon has proposed, panel members said this week.
The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission will consider the additional bases out of fairness to comparable installations that Defense Secretary Les Aspin has recommended be closed or reduced, commissioners said. The Pentagon had identified 43 large installations and 122 smaller sites for closing or consolidation. 
 The move reflects the arguments raised by communities that are home to bases on the Pentagon's list. Realizing that closings are inevitable in the post-cold-war era, many communities made detailed arguments to the commission on why their bases did a more efficient job than others handling comparable tasks.
 
Proposed Additions to List
 Commissioners also say they will probably suggest closing or reducing more bases than Mr. Aspin proposed in March. "We'll recommend more than Aspin, but I have no idea yet how many," said Beverly B. Byron, a commission member who is a former Democratic representative from Maryland.
Installations likely to be added for consideration include Fort Monroe, near Norfolk, Va.; Fort Gillem, Ga., near Atlanta; Fort Richardson, Alaska, and Plattsburgh Air Force Base in upstate New York. Additional Navy bases under consideration include those in Portsmouth, N.H.; Everett, Wash., near Seattle; Pascagoula, Miss., and Ingleside, Tex., near Corpus Christi. Commissioners will vote on which bases to add at a hearing here on Friday and perhaps Saturday.
Over the last two months the commission has already added for consideration the Monterey Presidio, Calif.; McClellan Air Force Base, near Sacramento, Calif.; the Great Lakes Naval Training Center north of Chicago, and the Agana Naval Air Station in Guam.
Several commissioners said in interviews that some bases on the Pentagon's list, including some in Charleston, S.C., and the San Francisco area, might be spared because of persuasive arguments that local politicians and business officials had made suggesting the closing of other installations that performed similar functions.
 
Deadline for Recommendations
 "Where the armed services have chosen to close a facility in favor of another, we ought to look, where prudent, to make a fair estimate of that choice," said Harry C. McPherson Jr., a commissioner who is a lawyer in Washington.
The seven-member commission has until July 1 to submit its final recommendations to President Clinton. The panel, which can add or subtract bases from the Pentagon's list, has until June 1 to identify bases for consideration this year. Installations left off that list are safe until the next round of base closings in 1995.
President Clinton and Congress must approve or reject the commission's final recommendations as a total package. But given the pressure to cut military spending, approval appears almost certain.
A sign of the consequences of base closings came today when the Pentagon announced the creation of a new post, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security. The official will oversee installation closings and programs to help military industries convert to civilian manufacturing.
The commission, set up to insulate Congress from angry constituents over base closings, has held a series of often emotional, raucous hearings in nine cities, from auditoriums packed with well-coached audiences in Charleston, to a dingy basement room in the Newark Symphony Hall on Mother's Day.
 
Criticism of Decisions
 From Boston to Birmingham, Ala., commissioners said, civic and political leaders have agreed that the military must cut costs but have criticized the Pentagon accounting that landed their hometown base on the list.
Most communities have stressed the local economic hardships that would result from a base closing, but the commission's criteria rest heavily on military utility.
"The more effective communities pointed out why we shouldn't close their base and brought up alternatives," said Hansford T. Johnson, a commission member who is a retired four-star general in the Air Force. "What we'll do on Friday doesn't presuppose the added bases will be closed, but it does put them at risk."
In Rome, N.Y., where the military has proposed reducing Griffiss Air Force Base, community leaders have held parades and rallies to sway the commission to select Plattsburgh Air Force Base, a refueling plane base in New York, instead. Griffiss advocates argue that the Air Force unfairly excluded the base from consideration for a new regional transportation command center, leaving it vulnerable to closing.
Commissioners said Charleston officials offered the most impressive presentation. A civic coalition armed with nearly $1 million in state, municipal and business contributions hired a Washington law firm and public relations company to help draft a cost analysis of closing several Navy installations in Charleston compared with others in Portsmouth, N.H., or Norfolk, Va.
 
Persuasive Arguments
 Speakers and a well-coached audience of 2,000 people held three dress rehearsals under the watchful eye of Elizabeth Inabinet, the president of the Charleston Chamber of Commerce, before the official commission hearings on May 1 and 2.
"Their presentation made a difference," said General Johnson. "They were in a class by themselves. We'll look very, very hard at Charleston."
Commissioners said some communities, including the Alameda Naval Air Station in the San Francisco Bay area, had reason to complain. "Alameda was scored as an air station, but has two piers for nuclear aircraft carriers that they didn't get credit for," Mrs. Byron said. "That's dumb."
Other bases that could be added to the list include Minot Air Force Base and Grand Forks Air Force Base in northern North Dakota, Ellsworth Air Force Base in southwestern South Dakota, as well as air logistics centers at Robins Air Force Base, near Macon, Ga., Tinker Air Force Base, outside Oklahoma City, Kelly Air Force in San Antonio, and Hill Air Force Base, outside Salt Lake City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GUAM (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE AND REALIGNMENT COMMISSION

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE AND REALIGNMENT COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GUAM (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) ARMED FORCES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



557 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Small Paragraph in Tax Measure Would Mean Bigger Bills for Some

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
A provision of the tax bill, inserted without debate as the House Ways and Means Committee drafted it last week, would draw many taxpayers into the highest tax brackets next year.
It would do this by delaying the usual annual adjustment of the tax tables to compensate for inflation. 
 At issue is what used to be known as bracket creep -- the tendency of wage earners to climb into higher tax brackets as their earnings kept up with inflation. Bracket creep ended in the 1980's, when tax brackets were adjusted to account for inflation.
The provision would reintroduce the risk of bracket creep next year for people whose earnings are near the thresholds of the top two, newly proposed tax brackets: one included single people with taxable earnings of $115,000 a year and couples with taxable earnings of $140,000 a year and the other includes those earning at least $250,000 a year, whether single or married. It is impossible to say how many people would end up in a higher tax bracket.
Some Republicans on the committee are enraged by the provision, which they said was never discussed during the committee's deliberations or disclosed in any of the papers explaining the bill's technical adjustments.
The provision, inserted as a technical adjustment by the committee's staff after the bill was voted on, would raise $1.6 billion over five years, the Republicans said today.
"There was no mention anywhere," said Representative Bill Thomas of California. "I can assure you, as you can imagine, that had that been announced, a debate would have ensued."
The loss of the adjustment for inflation, or indexing, even temporarily, is especially galling to Republicans because it was one of the hallmarks of the Reagan revolution in tax rates. Indexing, it was argued at the time, would eliminate a hidden tax increase that fueled Government spending.
Staff aides working for the committee's Democratic majority said that the provision was not a subterfuge but rather one of the innumerable compromises in technical language that are inevitable in a bill as complex as the 831-page document released today.
Democratic members of the committee, like Republicans, appear not to have given the matter much thought. Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, who participated actively in the drafting of the bill, said today that he was unaware of the provision.
Accountants poring over the details today said that they were startled to find this one.
Indexing has been mostly retained in the tax proposal issued last week by the Ways and Means Committee after a party-line vote. All Republicans opposed the measure.
But the two new upper income brackets -- the 36 percent bracket that affects individuals with taxable income of more than $115,000 and couples making more than $140,000, and the top-most bracket created by a 10 percent additional surcharge on taxes owed by individuals or couples with taxable income of more than $250,000 -- would not be adjusted upward to compensate for inflation until after 1994.
That means that an unmarried person whose taxable income is $114,500 in 1993, and who would be taxed at the 31 percent rate this year under the bill, could be vaulted into the 36 percent bracket in 1994 after receiving a raise pegged to the inflation rate.
And although the indexing of brackets would resume the next year, that person would be trapped in the higher bracket as long as the cost of living raises kept coming.
Republican members grumbled throughout the drafting sessions last week about procedural matters. But they were basically disregarded by the majority, led by the committee's chairman, Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who steered the package through.
A spokesman for Mr. Rostenkowski said that the chairman had not been made aware by any Republican members of the committee that they had any problems with the procedure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); POLITICS (61%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



558 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: 26,000 Cubans Partly Blinded; Cause Is Unclear

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
A disease that impairs vision and affects the nerves has struck almost 26,000 Cubans, predominantly adult men, health officials in Havana say. The Government has invited foreign experts to investigate.
A neurologist from Columbia University's medical school who has examined patients in Cuba said the epidemic was apparently caused by a nutritional deficiency, probably a lack of vitamin B1, thiamine. 
 The Deputy Health Minister of Cuba, Jorge Antelo, has told the World Health Organization that the epidemic began in January 1992, amid harsh economic conditions and natural disasters.
Dr. Antelo said the 30-year trade embargo imposed on Cuba by the United States has been aggravated by an abrupt decline in trade with the former Soviet Union and its allies. Cuba also suffered heavy agricultural and industrial devastation from a tropical storm.
 
Syndrome Traced to 1888
 The epidemic is different from any ever reported, Dr. Antelo said, adding, "We cannot rule out the hand of the enemy in the origins of this disease as long as the cruel and heartless economic embargo remains in effect."
But American experts said the evidence seemed to point to a vitamin B1 deficiency known as Strachan syndrome, described by a British health officer, Dr. H. Strachan, in Jamaica in 1888.
The Pan American Health Organization in Washington has sent nine experts to Cuba to investigate the epidemic, which affected at least 25,959 Cubans as of April 30, Dr. Antelo said. The experts are expected to hold a news conference in Havana today, said Jose Ponce, a spokesman for the Cuban interest section in the Swiss Embassy in Washington.
Nearly 20,000 of those affected have suffered from a gradual loss of vision, Dr. Antelo said. About 5,500 have suffered burning sensations and other symptoms of peripheral nerve damage. Some have suffered an imbalance of gait known as ataxia.
 
The Therapy Required
 Thiamine deficiency is usually completely reversible if it is treated before the nerve damage becomes permanent and if the patient eats properly. Recovery from visual impairment and nerve damage may take time, depending on how promptly therapy is begun.
Tests have shown low amounts of thiamine in many patients, Dr. Antelo said, and this month health officials began giving multi-vitamins to the entire population.
Many patients have shown improvement, said Michio Hirano, a neurologist at Columbia University who spent a week in Cuba earlier this month, examining patients in Havana and Santiago.
Maurice Victor, an expert on nutritional nerve disorders at Dartmouth Medical School and a co-author of neurology textbooks, said that on the basis of the available evidence, "there is nothing mysterious about it -- it's Strachan syndrome."
The syndrome, well known to nutritionists, was found during the Spanish Civil War and affects many undernourished people and alcoholics in the United States and other countries, he said.
 
Hunt for a Cause
 The epidemic was first recognized in a tobacco-growing area of Pinar del Rio, in western Cuba. Investigators first suspected pesticides and other toxins but they later ruled out such causes, Dr. Antelo said. He also said health workers eliminated methanol or other toxins in home-brewed alcoholic beverages. .
The Government appealed for help, and the experts from the Pan American Health Organization have investigated a wide variety of drugs, chemicals, plants and other possible causes.
Dr. Antelo said Cuban officials were investigating the possibility that the outbreak was due to a virus, possibly from the Coxsackie group. But Dr. Victor said, "There are no viruses that I know of that fit this particular syndrome."
 
Changes in Diet
 Dr. Hirano said the Cuban diet underwent a drastic change after the collapse of trade between Cuba and the former Soviet Union, and that except for children under 7, consumption of thiamine-rich milk, meat and eggs was severely restricted. Thiamine is also found in vegetables, but many Cubans boil them and throw away the water that contains the leached vitamins.
Wheat, rice and other foods are not fortified with vitamin B1 in Cuba, Dr. Hirano said.
It takes at least six weeks for symptoms of vitamin B1 deficiency, or beriberi, to develop, Dr. Victor said.
Many cases have affected men who drank alcohol, which can hasten the onset of thiamine deficiency, particularly among those who do not get enough vitamin B1. It is not clear how many of the nearly 26,000 patients are alcoholics, Dr. Hirano said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN SILVER CORP (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); PAN AMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); PAN AMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); PAN AMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); PAN AMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: EYES AND EYESIGHT; BLINDNESS; NERVES AND NERVOUS SYSTEM; VITAMINS; EPIDEMICS PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (89%); NUTRITION (89%); BLINDNESS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); TEXTBOOKS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (71%); WEATHER (70%); TOBACCO FARMING (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); CIVIL WAR (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



559 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Curt Riess, Author And Journalist, 90; Expert on Nazi Era

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Curt Riess, a refugee from Nazi Germany who returned as an American war correspondent to record the demise of Hitler's Third Reich, died on Wednesday at his home in Switzerland. He was 90 and lived in a suburb of Zurich.
Comfortable in English and German, he became a prolific trans-Atlantic author in both languages, producing a stream of newspaper and magazine articles, novels, biographies, screenplays and plays. 
 A former Berlin journalist, Mr. Riess drew attention in the United States in the 1930's and during World War II with his books and widely syndicated reporting about Hitler's Germany.
For instance, "The Nazis Go Underground" (Doubleday, 1944) described German espionage and what designs Hitler's associates might have for overseas after a defeat.
 
Wrote About Resistance
 Sales of another book in that area, "Total Espionage" (Putnam, 1941), soared after the United States entered the war after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. "Underground Europe" (Dial, 1942) was a dramatic account of the various anti-Nazi resistance movements in occupied Europe.
"The Berlin Story" (Dial, 1952) described the city as an epitome of East-West confrontation.
Curt Martin Riess was born in Wurzburg, Bavaria, and received his higher education in Berlin, Munich, Heidelberg, Zurich and Paris, focusing on literature and economics. He first turned to sports journalism, criss-crossing Europe to report for the Berlin press.
 
Left Germany for Paris
 With Hitler's rise to power, Mr. Riess left Germany for Paris. In 1934, Paris Soir, one of the Continent's largest papers, sent him to the United States. In the following years he shuttled between London, Paris, New York and Hollywood as a freelance journalist.
He was in Berchtesgaden, Hitler's favorite retreat in the Bavarian Alps, when the war ended. He then worked in New York and returned to live in Germany. He moved to Switzerland in 1952.
A biography of Joseph Goebbels, in English, was published by Doubleday in 1948; other subjects were Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Wilhelm Furtwangler and the actor Gustaf Grundgens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); ALPS (58%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); ZURICH (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); ALPS (58%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); ZURICH (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WORLD WAR II (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); ESPIONAGE (69%); 

PERSON: RIESS, CURT; SAXON, WOLFGANG

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



560 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: First Step in Journey;
After Chief Leaves, a Maze of Issues Still Confronting Empire Blue Cross

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
With the end of Albert A. Cardone's tenure as its leader, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield closed a chapter that increasingly was laced with charges of extravagance and poor management.
But in the face of mounting losses, investigations in Washington and Albany and accusations of serious organizational lapses, several monitors of the insurance giant said yesterday that his exit was only a step in a long journey to overhaul the company's image and the way it does business. 
 "It provides an opportunity for Empire to address the problems we've been talking about for the past two years and to take them out of the defensive mode they've been in," said State Senator Guy J. Velella, Republican of the Bronx and Westchester, who is the Senate Insurance Committee chairman. "But I would say the whole thing is a two-year process."
Among the issues the company has to address are how to shake up a management structure that outside auditors have criticized as outmoded and stultifying, how to cut back on management perquisites that are perceived as extravagances at a time of steady rate increases and how to compete against private insurers who are steadily plucking away some of its best customers.
 
Records Subpoenaed
 Looming most is the possibility of open hearings in Washington, perhaps as early as this summer, on the problems at the company and whether the State Insurance Department was remiss in carrying out its monitoring function. The Senate's permanent subcommittee on investigation has subpoenaed voluminous records from the company and the department in the course of its inquiry.
But more critical, Empire has to decide how to better deal with a daunting health-care and economic environment in which it has lost $250 million in two years despite steep rate increases granted by the state.
An audit ordered by the State Legislature last year found that even given its management problems, Empire would have been hard-pressed to compete more successfully in the face of spiraling medical costs and competition for its best customers. The uncertainty over what role insurers would play under a much-awaited health-reform package to be introduced shortly by the Clinton Administration only complicates matters.
"Empire needs to be repositioned to deal with the reality of the health-care market," Michael J. Dowling, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's director of health, education and human services, said. "That involves a lot of changes, and we don't know yet what else they're planning to do. I think it would be a mistake to think that all its problems could be solved by removing a C.E.O., but this is a sign that the board wants to project a new image."
With 8.2 million customers, Empire, which operates in 28 counties from the New York City area to Albany, is the largest health insurer in New York State and the largest of the 71 independent nonprofit companies that form the network of "Blues" around the country. It is one of 20 that still offer insurance to all who can pay for it, regardless of their health.
In exchange for playing this role, it gets a discount on hospital bills and its nonprofit status gives it an exemption from city and state taxes.
Despite these financial advantages and a steady stream of rate increases approved by the Insurance Department, the company's losses mounted over the past several years and its reserves shrunk to a point where it was placed on an informal watch list by the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
On top of this, the Federal Government cautioned Empire last month that its handling of Medicare claims for doctors' services was so poor that the Government was considering canceling a $30 million-a-year contract. And one of its biggest corporate clients, American Telephone and Telegraph, accused it in a lawsuit of defrauding its medical-benefits plan through a billing scheme.
The Legislature last winter came up with a $100 million Empire bailout package and the Insurance Department approved a rate increase that will raise the monthly premium for a major medical policy for a single person from $185.85, to $294.70. But accusations of big paychecks and perks -- including Mr. Cardone's $600,000 salary, chauffeur and Lincoln Town Car -- did nothing to make this aid go down easy with the public.
Richard M. Kessel, executive director of the state's Consumer Protection Board, credited Mr. Cardone with "trying to do some good things at Empire." But, he added, "the bottom line was he set a bad example."
"The tone," he said, "wasn't right. When subscribers are suffering, the executives have to make significant sacrifices and there was just no sacrifice at Empire at all. In the end I think that's what did him in."
Donald L. Morchower, Empire's chief operating officer and the executive who will fill Mr. Cardone's shoes while a search goes on for a permanent successor, said he hopes to polish the company's public image. As a start, he will turn down the Town Car and chauffeur for his Buick, which he said he would drive himself.
Beyond such symbolic gestures, however, Mr. Cardone's replacement will be faced with the task of digging deep into a management structure that the audit commissioned by the Legislature described as "autocratic" and "slow to react to the pace of change." Among other things, a three-part series in The New York Times this spring found it responsible for tens of millions of dollars in bad decisions involving computer systems and a poorly thought out health maintenance organization.
Many officials in and out of government have emphasized that even if these problems did not exist, the head of Empire Blue Cross might face migraines in the face of a fluid health insurance environment in which many of the "Blues" have sustained losses and other difficulties.
Mr. Cardone's departure still leaves fingers pointed at other individuals. Salvatore R. Curiale, the State Insurance Superintendent, harshly criticized Empire's nonpaid board members earlier this year, saying they "sat on their hands" while the company's woes mounted, and he urged that some of them quit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); ACCOUNTING (67%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN; CARDONE, ALBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



561 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: Jobless in Japan: A Special Kind of Anguish

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICHIBU, Japan

 BODY:
Since the factory where she worked for 30 years closed and left her without a permanent job, Kimiko Kanda has not left her home much and is too embarrassed to talk to friends who still work at her old company.
"Somehow, although I have done nothing wrong, I feel like a criminal," Mrs. Kanda said. "I have never heard of people being fired in my neighborhood or among my friends." 
 Mrs. Kanda is one person whose life has been uprooted by Japan's deep slump, which is fraying the system of lifetime employment and causing many people to lose their jobs for the first time.
 
Life and Work Entwined
 In Japan, in contrast to the United States, plant closings and dismissals are rare and the unemployment rate is a slender 2.3 percent. But when closings and job losses do occur, they can cause deep psychological distress because people so closely identify with their companies and because unemployment is considered such a shameful embarrassment.
Four individuals, three of whom have since found at least part-time work, agreed to interviews while they were unemployed. They talked about how their layoffs were carried out and how they were managing their finances, their hopes and their fears:
Work on the production line at the Ohkura Electric Company defined Kimiko Kanda's life. She started there at 16 and stayed for 30 years. When her two children were infants, she sent them to Ohkura Electric's day care.
Ohkura makes specialized telecommunications equipment for the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, one of Japan's corporate giants. But as N.T.T. has suffered from new competition and the recession, Ohkura's sales have plunged 25 percent during the last three years and it has suffered heavy losses.
One year ago, according to former employees, Ohkura offered to increase severance pay by 30 percent for workers who would retire voluntarily. But when that offer did not attract enough people, the company decided to shut the 45-year-old factory where more than 300 people made specialized communications terminals in this small city 35 miles west of Tokyo.
On the morning of July 27, company managers, without saying a word, laid a plain envelope at each employee's work space. When they opened them, about 180 people learned they had been transferred. The remaining 130 workers were told they could voluntarily resign and take the extra severance pay or they would be dismissed.
"Some people immediately began to cry on their desks," Kazumi Iwazaki, another former employee, said. "Some people rushed into the bathroom with handkerchiefs in their hands. Some people banged their desks in anger, saying, 'I devoted 30 years of my life to this place.' "
Mrs. Kanda, who was on vacation when the word came, got her notice by express mail.
"When I opened it, I got angry and really cried," she recalled recently, tears returning to her eyes. "While I worked very hard at the company, this was the way they treated me."
Since then, she said, she has destroyed or thrown out her company uniform, her badge and all other remnants of her life at Ohkura.
Mrs. Kanda, who had been earning about 5 million yen a year, or roughly $40,000, received a one-time severance of 12 million yen, or $100,000. Unemployment insurance payments, which amount to 60 percent of her monthly salary, ran out in mid-April.
The family is not in immediate trouble, but the future looks troublesome. Mrs. Kanda has found a part-time job working for the prefectural government, but the position will last only five months. Her husband, Isao, is a teacher at a driving school, but he will reach the mandatory retirement age of 57 in a few months. And with two children nearing college age, big education expenses are looming.
"Other than food, we almost never buy anything," Mrs. Kanda said.
 
A Programmer Tries to Resist
It is impolite to dismiss someone in Japan, but companies can go to great lengths to force people out. Take the case of a programmer for the NJK Corporation, a Tokyo software company.
When most of the company's programmers were sent out in the field to work with customers, he was assigned to headquarters, where for two years he sat in a vast office, all by himself except for the division chief.
"My salary was paid, but I had nothing to do," said the programmer, who spoke on the condition his name not be used because publication would make it harder for him to find a new job. The programmer, in short, had joined the ranks of the shanai shitsugyo, or in-house unemployed.
Last September, NJK told him that he would be sent to western Japan for retraining. Ostensibly to teach them good working habits, the workers were sent into the woods with axes and chainsaws and told to cut down trees. On rainy days, they were made to clean the toilets and kitchen of an old dormitory.
One by one, the workers in the training program disappeared; it turned out they had quit. But the programmer endured, despite suggestions from the trainers to "make yourself comfortable as quickly as possible" by going somewhere else.
"At my age, it would be difficult to find a new job," said the programmer, who is 44 and has worked at NJK since 1976. "In this industry people say 35 is the retirement age."
Finally, after a month, he was sent to a suburban Tokyo office, but was almost immediately told by the manager there that he would be sent for more training, this time on an electronics assembly line. Again, the manager suggested he "restart" his life, and, again, the worker declined.
But last November, after about a week on the assembly line, the programmer quit. He said he was told to write a letter stating he was resigning for personal reasons so that his departure would be classified as a voluntary retirement. An NJK official said the company had no comment on what the programmer said.
The programmer, whose annual salary was about 6.7 million yen, or more than $55,000, received a retirement payment of 800,000 yen, or less than $7,000. His wife's part-time job and tapping into their savings, which are almost depleted, kept the couple and their two children financially viable, he said. His wife said in a recent tele phone call that the programmer now had a job in a completely different field.
 
Fashion Salesman Adjusts to Fate
His silk tie, gold watch and well-cut suit mark Sei-ichiro Sakaguchi for the fashion salesman he is -- or was. At 45, Mr. Sakaguchi was the section chief at a women's blouse maker until last November, when the company called a meeting and announced that it would cut its work force by more than 40 percent, to 200, because of a sales slump.
While most employees had braced for such an announcement, one young worker, screaming that the layoffs were management's fault, rushed to the front of the room and tried to attack the company president. He had to be restrained by three men.
Mr. Sakaguchi protested at first, though more peacefully, but then, he said, he realized that if he argued too much, it would ruin his reputation in the industry, making it harder for him to find another job.
Mr. Sakaguchi registered at three job banks. "I'm looking for any sales job," he said during his job search. "I'm not even stressing I should get a management job." Still, he had almost no job interviews in the four months he was unemployed.
Mr. Sakaguchi said unemployment did not cause any great financial difficulty because his wife is from a wealthy family. Rather, the shock was psychological. "I have to keep my face toward my children," he said. "I get mad when they ask me, 'You haven't found a job yet?' "
A recent telephone call to his house was answered briefly by someone who said Mr. Sakaguchi now had a job, but the person would not give any details.
 
Quality Tester Goes to Court
When Ohkura Electric informed Mrs. Kanda and here co-workers that it was shutting its factory, Kazumi Iwazaki refused to go along and has sued to get his job back.
"We should not allow the companies to dismiss workers so easily," said Mr. Iwazaki, a quality tester who worked at Ohkura for more than 20 years and met his wife there. "If we allowed that to happen, that type of attack will occur all over Japan."
While most of the others "agreed" to resign and get the higher severance pay, Mr. Iwazaki refused, thereby forfeiting the pay. And while most workers immediately began claiming their remaining vacation days, Mr. Iwazaki continued to report to work each day until the plant finally closed a month later.
Once Mr. Iwazaki's unemployment benefits expire there will be little to support his wife, three children and his 82-year-old father. His wife, Michiko, who retired last year when she felt her health was no longer up to factory work, has found a part-time job. And his daughters, age 21 and 19, have also taken jobs to support the family.
In order to devote full time to his lawsuit, Mr. Iwazaki, 44, is not looking for another job. To insure he keeps his house, he paid off his entire loan, draining his savings in the process.
Mr. Iwazaki and the seven other plaintiffs are trying to support themselves and their cause by selling boxes of Japanese noodles. In true Japanese style, the have also printed up business cards identifying themselves as the "Ohkura Electric Labor Struggle Group."
Toru Fukuda, the Tokyo labor lawyer representing the workers, said that based on court precedents, a company has to meet four tests to justify a mass dismissal of workers: the layoffs must be absolutely necessary; the company must have made every effort to avoid job losses; it must have consulted with the union, and the selection of those to be dismissed must not have been done in a discriminatory manner.
Mr. Fukuda intends to challenge Ohkura on all four aspects, contending, for instance, that Ohkura's profits in the good years were ample enough to make layoffs unnecessary in lean times.
Ohkura said it would have no comment because of the lawsuit.
The lawsuit is expected to take years to decide. In the meantime, a lone guard watches over the products still stored inside the empty factory. The union hall on the factory grounds has been torn down, in part, Mr. Iwazaki said, because television news crews would gather there. Of the 130 employees who lost their jobs last summer, only 47 had found new ones as of recently.
"When my wife gets really worried she says to me, 'How can we make it in the future?' " Mr. Iwazaki said. "Sometimes I can't offer her a clear vision."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I feel like a criminal," said Kimiko Kanda, who stood outside the factory in Chichibu, Japan, that closed and left her without work. (Haruyoshi Yamaguchi for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTT (NYSE) (66%); NPN (LSE) (66%); 9432 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (66%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: OHKURA ELECTRIC CO LTD (82%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS (LABOR) EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); CLOSINGS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); TRENDS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



562 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Introducing Bonds of the Half-Century

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Just as the United States Treasury is cutting back on 30-year bonds, corporations are edging into the 50-year bond business.
It may not yet be a trend, but it is no longer an oddity. Three 50-year bonds have been sold by companies this year, including the $250 million 50-year issue sold late on Wednesday by the Consolidated Rail Corporation. The sale comes just weeks after the Treasury announced it was slashing its annual auctions of 30-year bonds by 40 percent. 
 "It will be interesting to see if other corporate issuers follow," said Mark A. Seigel, a managing director at Morgan Stanley & Company, the lead underwriter for the Conrail issue. "This is more than a novelty."
 
Popular in 19th Century
 Fifty-year bonds are not a new idea. But they have been rare recently. More than a century ago, 50-year debt and longer maturities were sold regularly. Some railroads issued 999-year bonds; one such bond of a railroad now owned by Canadian Pacific is paying 4 percent interest and is due in 2883.
Since the 1950's, the 50-year gamble seemed to run out of steam. The Tennessee Valley Authority got a lot of headlines with a 50-year issue last year, but then it was a novelty.
With long-term interest rates at their lowest levels in nearly two decades, the longer-term bet for corporations would seem like a good idea. Mr. Seigel said that for Conrail this bond issue was almost like equity, "quasi-permanent capital at extremely attractive interest rates."
Some buyers of this debt, however, may not be showing as much confidence in the corporate and economic outlook as the 50 years might imply. In fact, the bet some buyers are making does not seem much greater than the gamble made with the much more common 30-year bond.
"It is enough of a step to buy a 30-year bond," said Geoffrey Kurinsky, a senior vice president for corporate bonds at Massachusetts Financial Services in Boston and a buyer of 50-year bonds. "The extra 20 years is not saying much more."
Mr. Kurinsky said the interest-rate volatility of a 50-year bond was not much greater than that of a 30-year bond, which means the potential for loss is not much larger. In fact, in portfolio terms, the difference in the so-called duration of the two bonds is a year and a half rather than 20 years.
 
Not 'More Bullish'
 "It is going to trade like a 30-year bond," he said. "It is not a statement of my view on interest rates; it is not a more bullish bond."
Another factor driving the purchase of these 50-year bonds is the need of managers at insurance companies and pension funds to match their long-term cash flows and liabilities. The 50-year bond offers them a long-term match that is hard to find.
In addition, money managers who try to keep a set level of duration in their portfolios have had trouble recently. Duration is a measure of the weighted average of the time over which all the cash flow -- interest and principal -- from the securities in a portfolio will be paid.
Because of the decline in interest rates, many mortgage-backed securities in portfolios have been paid off much sooner than expected as homeowners refinance. These payoffs have lowered durations quickly and one way to offset that decline is to buy longer-term debt, including 50-year bonds.
 
Issued by Boeing and Texaco, Too
 Of the three 50-year bonds sold this year, two, the Conrail bond and the bond sold by the Boeing Company, are not callable for the life of the bond. The 50-year bond issued by Texaco Inc. is callable by the company after 20 years, which means it could pay it off if interest rates decline. And for many in the market, this is really a 20-year bond in the way it behaves.
The Conrail bond, which Morgan Stanley said was the largest industrial 50-year issue in history, has a coupon of 7.875 percent and was priced to yield 7.891 percent. That was 87 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, over the rate on the 30-year Treasury bond at the time of the sale.
Mr. Kurinsky said that while for him it was very much like buying a 30-year bond, it was cheaper. He got about 15 basis points more of interest, which means he paid a lower price, than on a current 30-year Conrail bond. This means that Conrail also got a benefit because it had to pay only 15 more basis points to get money for 20 more years.
 
Treasury Market
 Treasury prices fell and yields inched higher yesterday, as trading settled down a bit after two boisterous and volatile sessions.
The yield on the 30-year bond due in February 2023 rose to 6.99 percent, from 6.97 percent on Wednesday, while the price dipped 10/32 , to 101 20/32 .
Trading was in a narrow range until the very end of the day, when a surprising jump in the weekly money supply data added a burst of selling.
Traders said that earlier in the day, prices and yield seemed to be stymied by offsetting data and rumors. On the positive side for the market, initial jobless claims rose a bit more than expected and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank indicated manufacturing growth was slowing.
But on the negative side, there was more speculation about what the Federal Reserve did to its interest rate policy at its meeting Tuesday. While it is not expected that it agreed to increase short-term interest rates now, the concern was that the Fed may have shifted its bias toward higher interest rates.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (72%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED RAIL CORP (72%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (70%); TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (55%); MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



563 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Shows Broad Loss; Gold Is Mixed Worldwide

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined yesterday in global trading, as the market's recent wave of bullish sentiment lost momentum.
The dollar's weakness was exaggerated by a lull in European activity, where many financial markets were closed in observance of Ascension Day. But the German mark's gains against the dollar were muted because of cross-trading, or nondollar trading, in which players sold marks to buy British pounds. 
 Gold rose in New York after falling overseas. On the Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery gained 50 cents an ounce to $374.20. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid of $374 an ounce, up $1.20.
A modest jump in the number of people filing first-time claims for jobless benefits and a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia about the region's economic activity had little impact on yesterday's trading. The bank said the area economy was growing, but at a slower pace.
In addition, the chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, told reporters that the growth rate of the gross domestic product in the first quarter would probably be revised downward from the preliminary estimate of 1.8 percent.
Also hurting the dollar was its inability to recover fully from a plunge against the yen on Wednesday, when an unexpected surge in the March trade deficit renewed speculation that the United States was pushing for a lower dollar to help improve its trade position.
"The dollar's inability to rebound vs. the yen yesterday was a good reason to lighten up on long dollar positions vs. European currencies," said Stephen Flanagan, vice president in foreign exchange at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
The pound spurted against the mark yesterday after the release of figures showing unemployment in Britain dropped in April for the third straight month. That seemed to decrease the likelihood that the Government would need to lower interest rates to stimulate the economy. Lower interest rates make a currency less attractive to investors.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed sharply lower at 110.40 yen, down 1.16 yen from Wednesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 110.50 yen. In late New York trading, the dollar fetched 110.65 yen, down from late Wednesday's 110.75 yen.
Other dollar rates, compared with late Wednesday, were: 1.6139 German marks, down from 1.6240; 1.4650 Swiss francs, down from 1.4747; 5.4365 French francs, down from 5.4770; 1.8090 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8213; 1,468.00 Italian lire, down from 1,472.25, and 1.2682 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2676.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (69%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (65%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (70%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BRITISH POUND (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%); 

PERSON: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



564 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Up

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
The number of newly laid-off workers filing claims for jobless benefits rose by 7,000 last week, the Government reported today. "We're drifting along aimlessly," said Robert G. Dederick, an economist with the Northern Trust Company of Chicago. "It's consistent with employment growth, but growth of a subdued nature." First-time claims for unemployment insurance rose to 344,000 last week, from a revised 337,000 a week earlier, the Labor Department reported. It initially had estimated that claims totaled 339,000 in the week ended May 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NORTHERN TRUST CORP (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



565 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Ever-Shifting Odds At Cannes Festival

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

DATELINE: CANNES, France

 BODY:
"JUDGMENT," Jack Valenti said here the other night, "is the elf who acts like a computer when you get to that fork in the road."
If that's true, and there's no reason to disbelieve the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, then it's apparent that a lot of elves are at the point of nervous breakdown as the 46th Cannes International Film Festival enters its final days. 
 Mr. Valenti, speaking in his own memorable syntax at a black-tie dinner, was toasting a colleague for the consistency of his wisdom and vision in matters relating to the American movie business in Europe. The judgment of Mr. Valenti's colleague may still be firm, but elsewhere in Cannes, judgments are as unreliable as they are unpredictable. Neither elves nor computers work well here.
Two days ago, it seemed as if "The Piano," Jane Campion's period romantic comedy with a modern sensibility, would be a cinch to win the Palme d'Or, the festival's top prize, when the awards are announced on Monday night. Today, all that has changed. If the local reviews are any indication of how the jury may vote, then "The Piano" has a formidable rival in Chen Kaige's "Farewell to My Concubine," the only Chinese entry in the main competition.
"Farewell to My Concubine," screened on Wednesday night, is a nearly three-hour epic covering 50 years of recent Chinese history in sexual, social and political terms that would have been unthinkable in a Chinese film just a few years ago. It's a handsome, exotic, beautifully acted film, full of the kind of humanism that festival juries like to commend. It's also one of the few films seen at the festival so far that are worth serious discussion.
Shown in competition on Thursday night was "Splitting Heirs," the genially slapdash, neo-Monty Python English farce that opened in New York City a few weeks ago. The main attraction on Thursday night was the out-of-competition screening of Sylvester Stallone's latest action film, "Cliffhanger," the proceeds from which are to go to AIDS research.
Almost as big a surprise as the popularity of "Farewell to My Concubine" has been the hostility with which the European press has greeted "Far Away So Close," a decidedly serious, elegantly made new film by Wim Wenders, who can usually do no wrong at Cannes. Among other things, he won the Palme d'Or for "Paris, Texas" in 1984. "Far Away So Close" is the German film maker's follow-up to his immensely successful "Wings of Desire," for which he was given the best director's prize at the 1987 festival.
Although he resolutely denies that "Far Away So Close" is a sequel to "Wings of Desire," it shares with the earlier film the same concerns and many of the same actors (Bruno Ganz, Otto Sander, Peter Falk and Solveig Dommartin) playing the same roles. It is also based on a strikingly similar situation: an angel's seduction by earthly love and the concept of mortality. In "Wings of Desire," it is the angel played by Mr. Ganz who falls to Earth to stay in West Berlin; in the new film, it is the angel played by Mr. Sander. The setting is today's reunified Berlin. The new film also features Willem Dafoe and, as a new angel, Nastassja Kinski.
The news conference after the screening got off to a confrontational start when a German critic asked the director, "How does it feel to run out of ideas?" His reply: "It's a terrible feeling, especially for a journalist." It was all sort of spiteful and unrewarding, although it was a change. At most such news conferences, grown-up men and women, in their capacity as critics, spend less time asking questions than congratulating the person on the dais.
Clearly a disappointment to admirers of Steven Soderbergh, though not a film to be ashamed of, is his new "King of the Hill." The Cannes festival has an almost parental regard for the young American director. He came to international attention here in 1989 when his first feature, "Sex, Lies and Videotape," won the Palme d'Or.
The source material for the new film is A. E. Hotchner's memoir of growing up poor and often untended in a seedy St. Louis hotel in the Depression. There's nothing drastically wrong with the movie, but also nothing that's especially arresting or distinctive. Jesse Bradford, who plays Aaron, the teen-age Hotchner surrogate, has the kind of idealized good looks that suggest a generic rather than an idiosyncratic character. Even more troublesome is the manner in which the movie seems not to recognize the truly dark circumstances in which Aaron finds himself.
Because the family is so hard up, Aaron's beloved younger brother is sent away to live with relatives. After his tubercular mother is put into a sanitarium, Aaron's father, who is not supposed to be unfeeling or stupid, blithely goes off to sell wristwatches in Nebraska. He leaves the boy to fend for himself without money or anyone to call on for help. Somehow, Mr. Soderbergh misses both the serious comedy and the drama of the situation. The movie is sweet and unsentimental, but it frequently appears heedless.
The economic and political chaos in the rest of the world has taken its toll on Cannes this year. Movie makers seem to be either ignoring the world, incapable of coming to grips with it or unable to find the money and facilities with which to work. Aleksandr Khvan's "Douba-Douba," the only Russian film in competition, is both melancholy and morally muddled. It's about a conscience-stricken young screenwriter who turns to robbery and murder to bail his former girlfriend out of prison, where she's serving time for a crime she didn't commit. The film is not about spiritual and emotional confusion. It's a demonstration of it.
In the unreal circumstances of such a festival, which is like spending 12 days on a determinedly carefree cruise to nowhere, a small, solid, unspectacular film like Raoul Peck's "Homme sur les Quais" ("Man on the Quays") comes close to being a momentous event. Without tears or much dramatic artifice, the Haitian-born Mr. Peck recalls a terrifying childhood in the Haiti of Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier's dictatorship. The film, shot in the Dominican Republic, looks and sounds authentic.
"Farewell to My Concubine" has the scope, breadth and something of the detachment of a big, carefully researched historical novel. The story it tells is a good one about the intense, long-term relationship of two men, apprenticed to the Beijing Opera as boys in the 1920's. The film records the evolution of that relationship through the Japanese occupation of China in the 1930's, the fall of the Nationalist Government, the consolidation of power by the Communists and, finally, the chaos of the Cultural Revolution. A lot of ground is covered with efficiency.
At the center of the film is the unrequited love of one of the men for the other, and how, during the Cultural Revolution, each is driven to denounce the other, for different reasons. The movie is full of event, period detail and arcane information about the life and traditions of the Beijing Opera. It doesn't dawdle. Like James A. Michener, Chen Kaige can be called a good read; the film's subtitles are voluminous. The images also are lovely.
One of the most enjoyable films here is not even in the main competition, but in the Directors' Fortnight, a side event. It's "The Snapper," a rowdy Irish comedy directed by Stephen Frears and adapted by Roddy Doyle from his own novel. "The Snapper" is from the same trilogy of Doyle novels that provided the basis for Alan Parker's film "The Commitments."
In "The Snapper," the amazingly resilient and good-natured members of the lower-middle-class Curley family must come to terms with the accidental pregnancy of the unmarried eldest daughter. Mr. Frears appears to have had a picnic with the material, which is exceptionally funny in the ways sitcoms are supposed to be but seldom are. "The Snapper," which has no need of a laugh track, will be coming to the United States soon.
Sally Potter has been cheering up Cannes for several days. Ms. Potter, who adapted and directed the remarkable film version of "Orlando," was last here six years ago trying to raise money for the Virginia Woolf project. Now she's just having fun going to movies. Her particular must-sees: Jane Campion's "Piano" and Mr. Wenders's "Far Away So Close." She's still brooding about her next project. That is, she's not talking about it. She is talking, with infectious pleasure, about the unexpected success of "Orlando." For three weeks, it was No. 1 at the London box office, beating out "Scent of a Woman." Or was it "Indecent Proposal"? Who cares? "Orlando" was on top.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fengyi Zhang, left, and Leslie Cheung in the Chinese movie "Farewell to My Concubine," shown at Cannes. (Ho Slug/AP) (pg. C17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FAREWELL TO MY CONCUBINE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: CHINA (79%); FRANCE (76%); EUROPE (71%); GERMANY (56%); UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); FRANCE (76%); EUROPE (71%); GERMANY (56%); UNITED STATES (52%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FESTIVALS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; CANNES INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (71%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



566 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
It's Teflon Harazin, For the Time Being

BYLINE: By Murray Chass

 BODY:
In announcing the dismissal of Jeff Torborg as the Mets' manager, Al Harazin said no one person should be singled out for blame for the team's dreadful start. "I certainly accept my share," said the general manager, the chief architect of this failure of a team.
But while Torborg will not go to Shea Stadium today to take his seat in the Mets' dugout, Harazin will be sitting in his office in the executive suite. He still has a job. 
 Harazin's status was one of the issues raised yesterday in the aftermath of the managerial change from Torborg to Dallas Green. It spawned several questions:
*Did Harazin act before he could be acted upon?
*Is he in jeopardy of losing his job?
*Should he at least be on probation?
*If Harazin is guilty of putting together this enigmatic team, did its creation actually begin earlier, with the trade of Lenny Dykstra in 1989 or at least with the decision to let Darryl Strawberry leave as a free agent in 1990 and to sign Vince Coleman instead?
Fred Wilpon, the Mets' co-owner, gave a quick and firm answer yesterday concerning Harazin's status.
"We have not discussed Al's status," Wilpon said in a telephone interview. "I don't believe he is in jeopardy." But, he added, "I think Al is accountable, as is everyone else in the organization."
It would be easy to say that Harazin, in his first two years as general manager, provided Torborg with proven veterans -- Bobby Bonilla, Bret Saberhagen, Eddie Murray, Tony Fernandez -- and that the manager failed to get them to produce at their previous levels. But no manager should have to do anything to get such veterans to produce.
Maybe no one should question Harazin's decision to acquire those players. When he signed Bonilla and Murray as free agents and traded for Saberhagen in a two-week period late in 1991, he was saluted for dramatically reviving the club.
"When Al made all those moves, he was applauded as the great trader Al," Wilpon said. "Nobody questioned his abilities then. It hasn't worked out. We're all disappointed."
Maybe it hasn't worked out because Harazin unwittingly concocted an ill-conceived plan, as ill-conceived as Frank Cashen's decision to shed Strawberry after a season in which he hit 37 home runs and had a career-high 108 runs batted in. The Mets opted for speed instead, bringing in Coleman with his sour demeanor and his overrated reputation as a catalytic leadoff hitter.
In adding Murray to the clubhouse mix, Harazin further eroded the freespirited, extroverted environment that had existed with Dykstra, Wally Backman and that bunch. Murray produces on the field and gets along with his teammates, but he has no use for outsiders, such as reporters, and he infects other players with his view.
A friend of Bonilla said the player apparently has allowed himself to be sucked into that type of behavior, and that his resulting obsession with what was being said and written about him caused him to lose sight of his role on the field.
Harazin would not second-guess any of the deals he has made. "Anybody can go back with 20-20 hindsight and, if guys slump, say that was a dumb deal," he said. "All I ask is that people be logical and think of what made sense in the context of the time."
Harazin also said he had no thought of firing Torborg before anyone could question the general manager's role.
"I had no indication of anything," he said. "I've had nothing but great support from our owners."
As for the loss of his support for Torborg, the general manager said: "I can only go by what Jeff said and what I saw. He said, 'Frankly, I haven't been able to make this work. If I were sitting in your spot, I'd do the same thing.' I applaud and admire his candor."
Wilpon said Harazin recommended the change, a decision he and Nelson Doubleday discussed and approved last Saturday.
Asked if he and Doubleday would assess Harazin's position at the end of the season, Wilpon said, "We are reasonable business people. We always reassess."
A general manager of another team speculated yesterday that the new manager could eventually become the new general manager. The dugout, he said, is the best place to evaluate players. At the end of the season, his thinking went, the Mets could give Green his choice of remaining as manager or moving into the front office, where he could act on his evaluation.
"That is not part of any conversation we have had," Wilpon said. "We wanted to make sure that Dallas has fire in his belly to manage, that he didn't want to be something else in baseball, a general manager or president of a league. The answer from Dallas was he wants to manage."
If the owners, in their reassessment, find that Harazin, like Torborg, was lacking, they could reinforce the office by bringing back Joe McIlvaine, who left for San Diego before he could join Harazin as a two-headed replacement for Cashen.
McIlvaine himself comes up for evaluation by the Padres' owners at the All-Star Game break, halfway through his five-year contract, and he has told friends in baseball that it doesn't look as if they will retain him.
McIlvaine did not want to discuss his status. But the Padre owners are known not to care for McIlvaine's candid comments about the economically forced decimation of a once-promising team.
The Mets once were promising, too. Something other than economics has decimated them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); DALLAS, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BASEBALL (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; HARAZIN, AL; TORBORG, JEFF MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



567 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section C; Page 26; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Dusk's Magic: As the Day Ends, the Fun Begins;
Dining

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER

 BODY:
As dusk falls over the city, so too do menu prices in many prominent restaurants. The economic slowdown of recent years has compelled dining establishments of all kinds to attract new customers with pre-theater menus, post-theater specials, Sunday discounts and early evening packages.
All of this has led to a dining trove for those who are flexible with time. At 6 P.M. dining rooms are quieter and generally more efficient. Servers are underemployed and have not yet become frazzled, so you get attentive service. Moreover, most early specials include dishes from the regular menu but at two-thirds the price or less. 
 Here are some noteworthy early-bird dinners and several evening teas and assorted activities, all in Manhattan.
ANGLERS AND WRITERS, 420 Hudson Street, at St. Lukes Place, West Village, (212) 675-0810. This enchanting little American restaurant resembles a New England antiques shop. The owner, Craig Bero, takes his tea seriously and service begins right after lunch, from 3 to 7 P.M. daily. You have a choice of the American high tea ($12.50) or just a pot of tea ($2.25). The high tea, served in antique pots with turn-of-the-century English china, includes fruit scones with clotted cream and homemade berry jam, Danish open-face tea sandwiches and warm apple crumble, petits fours or strawberry buttermilk shortcake. Mr. Bero recently opened a tea shop next door, called Be-Speckled Trout, which sells teapots, sterling tea strainers, loose tea, honey and the like.
BELLINI BY CIPRIANI, 777 Seventh Avenue, near 51st Street, (212) 265-7770. Convenient to the theater district, cosmopolitan and authentically Venetian, this midtown spot, owned by the namesake of Harry's Bar in Venice, is a bit pricey for the average diner's blood. But between 5:30 and 7 P.M. a three-course meal is offered for $29.50. A recent menu started with tagliolini with pesto or baked veal ravioli with ham; offered as entrees were free-range chicken with asparagus or fried calamari with a mixed salad; then dessert.
BOOK-FRIENDS CAFE, 16 West 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-7407. This snug little bookstore and cafe is a relaxing and civilized place to end the day. The main room has creaky-old appeal, with book-lined shelves and pine green walls. The store specializes in old and rare editions from 1890 to 1940. From 3 to 5 P.M. nearly a dozen kinds of tea are served along with scones, sandwiches and pastries ($12.95). Every other Wednesday at 7 P.M. old-fashioned tea dances are held with live music ($5 admission). The next tea dance is June 2. In addition, authors frequently lecture about their work; a schedule is available upon request.
GABRIEL, 1370 Lexington Avenue, near 90th Street, (212) 369-9374. If you are attending an event at the 92d Street Y, this cozy neighborhood spot could be a good early evening bet. Gabriel has never been known for distinguished cuisine -- pastas seem to be the best bets -- but if you stick to simple fare it can be enjoyable. From 4:30 to 6 P.M. it offers what it calls a sunset special, a $17.50 three-course meal. The menu includes wine, soup or salad, pasta (or another entree), dessert and coffee.
THE HUDSON RIVER CLUB, 250 Vesey Street, 4 World Financial Center, (212) 786-1500. Sunset on the water with a glass of wine or a meal is a rare commodity in Manhattan. The Hudson River Club offers both, and at discount prices between 5 and 7 P.M. Mondays through Fridays (5 to 6 P.M. on Saturdays), when a $24.93 dinner is available in the glass-fronted dining room overlooking the river. The food at this hour is not so exciting or diverse as that on the regular menu, but it is well executed: grilled salmon with herb-and-lemon-butter sauce, fillet of beef with Hudson Valley wine sauce, and stewed chicken with wild mushrooms. Pumpkin-apple soup is a must for starters.
MARK'S, the Mark Hotel, 25 East 77th Street, (212) 879-1864. One of the more refined hotel dining rooms in New York City, Mark's recently made available a $26 prix fixe dinner with one seating between 6:30 and 7 P.M. The dining room has a sumptuous English feeling, with classical prints and gold-framed mirrors on dark wood walls. The food is classical French with contemporary flourishes. Service excels.
THE RAINBOW ROOM, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, 65th floor, (212) 632-5100. This is one of the most popular and hard to reserve restaurants in New York City. But if you are willing to go early, some bargains can be had. Starting at 4 P.M. and continuing until closing around midnight, the Rainbow Promenade (a k a the bar) serves tasting plates of international foods. The view is arresting as the sun sinks below the steel-and-glass towers of Manhattan. Three plates run about $25. Reservations are not accepted.
In the Rainbow Room itself, a $38.50 pre-theater dinner is offered with seatings between 5:30 and 6:15 P.M. You are in the grand ballroom with the revolving piano, and piano entertainment is provided. After 7:30 P.M. a music charge of $15 is added.
RENE PUJOL, 321 West 51st Street, (212) 246-3023. A solid, comfortable, amiable French restaurant, one of the last survivors of the postwar West Side Frenchtown community, Rene Pujol has considerable charms. Unlike many establishments that severely limit prix-fixe meals, the $32 discount menu here is nearly as large as the regular one. The prix-fixe menu is available from 5 P.M. until closing daily. (The regular menu is available at 8 P.M.) Free hors d'oeuvres are served at the bar. Among the recommended dishes are warm garlic sausage with lentil salad, onions and fresh thyme in a phyllo tart, roasted cod in a mustard-basil crust, braised rabbit legs Provencale and roasted tenderloin of beef with shallots. Wine fanciers will note that Rene Pujol has an exceptionally strong inventory of Burgundy and Bordeaux, some at excellent prices.
THE SEA GRILL, 19 West 49th Street, (212) 246-9201. One of the more awe-inspiring spots for a snack or early evening dinner is the outdoor garden in Rockefeller Center. Three restaurants share the space -- the Sea Grill, the American Festival Cafe and the Bar Carvery -- which is filled this time of year with umbrella-shaded tables and an outdoor bar. Off to one side, the fountain of Prometheus sparkles in changing colors.
The Sea Grill is the best of the three, and service begins at 5 P.M. both inside the dining room and outside in the garden. A $35 complete dinner includes items like Thai chicken soup with fried cilantro, grilled salmon paillard with spinach and pine nuts, and Key lime pie with lime sorbet. A selection of wines chosen for each course is available for $15.
TATOU, 151 East 50th Street, (212) 753-1144. The setting resembles a turn-of-the-century music hall, with a 32-foot-high ceiling, ornate woodwork, giant chandeliers and faux antique windows. Live music is featured during normal dinner hours; after 11 P.M. the place turns into a nightclub. One does not expect to find ambitious cooking at a place like this, but American fare by Scott Cohen, the executive chef, is consistently rewarding. From 5:30 to 6:45 P.M. Mondays through Saturdays, a $19.93 menu includes dishes like a deviled crab cake with cilantro mayonnaise, lobster chowder, a roasted vegetable tart, honey-mustard roasted salmon, and aged New York shell steak with french fries.
VOULEZ-VOUS, 1462 First Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 249-1776. Regional French bistro food is the specialty of this worthy spot with an exceptionally congenial staff. Diners who arrive between 5:15 and 6:30 P.M. can find remarkable value: a $17.95 prix fixe dinner that includes three courses and dessert. Among the dishes to look for are the house terrine, leeks vinaigrette, brandade de morue, shrimp-and-couscous salad and coq au vin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARRY'S BAR LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); MENU PRICES (90%); WRITERS (88%); MILK (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); THEATER (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BOOKSTORES (73%); POULTRY (73%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (68%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



568 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: TV Weekend;
Cambodians' Turn for Children to Turn American

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
"Why did the Cambodian people have to leave their own country to live in this strange, foreign land?" a woman asks at the start of "Cambodians in America: Rebuilding the Temple." The question, not unfamiliar in the United States, is at the heart of tonight's affecting hourlong report on the adapting pains of the latest immigrant group to discover that the freedom, security and economic opportunities that brought them to America carry a high price in the traditions that sustained them at home.
The answer to "Why?" goes back to the Khmer Rouge, the Maoist-inspired Cambodian guerrillas who killed a million of their own people in the 1970's. The 1980's brought invasion from Vietnam and a civil war that keeps driving refugees to Thailand and from there around the world. About 140,000 Cambodians have found their way to the United States. 
 A favorite target of the Khmer Rouge was the Buddhist religion, Cambodia's main faith, which most of the immigrants interviewed tonight agree is just as difficult to reconcile with the American drive for success as with Maoist doctrine. A Buddhist priest in Providence, R.I., says, "Buddhist people are very gentle, very soft," but in America "it is not so soft, not so gentle." A newcomer who sells insurance in New England laments the pressure "to be No. 1."
The program tells of efforts in several American cities to build temples and even shows a young man having his hair shaved in preparation for becoming a monk. But most young Cambodians are keeping their hair, and some are converting to Christianity. Instead of learning to appreciate and perform classical dances, the most revered of Cambodian arts, they are out discoing.
So families already struck hard by the Khmer Rouge are being further unraveled as the young move into the American mainstream. The program's narrator does not acknowledge how common the generational divide has been among immigrants, but the fact that other groups have been shaken by America cannot be much consolation to the latest people to find themselves between two cultures.

 
Cambodians in America
Rebuilding the Temple
PBS, tonight
(In New York, Channel 13 at 9)
 
Produced, written and directed by Claudia Levin and Lawrence Hott. Narrated by Linda Hunt. A production of Florentine Films in association with the Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CAMBODIANS IN AMERICA: REBUILDING THE TEMPLE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CAMBODIA (97%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA UNITED STATES (99%); CAMBODIA (97%); THAILAND (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; TELEVISION PROGRAMS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); RELIGION (92%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); REFUGEES (77%); FAMILY (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (60%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



569 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A map yesterday with a front-page article about the New Jersey economy showed an incorrect location for Dover Township, one place in New Jersey where jobs grew most quickly in the 1980's. It is in Ocean County, and includes Toms River; the town of Dover is in Morris County. 
 A front-page picture caption with the article in some copies referred incorrectly to a building in Morristown. It is still occupied by A.T.& T.; it is adjacent to a building vacated the company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; DOVER TOWNSHIP (NJ) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CORRECTION STORIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



570 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: The Value of Colon Cancer Tests

 BODY:
Science finally confirmed last week that laboratory screening tests can help reduce the death toll from colon and rectal cancers. The National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society have been recommending that Americans age 50 and over get an annual test for hidden blood in stool samples. But there was precious little evidence that it saved many lives. Five trials, enrolling more than 300,000 patients, failed to demonstrate a reduction in mortality.
But last week, in the most definitive study yet, researchers reported that annual testing for hidden blood in the stool could help doctors cut the mortality rate for colorectal cancers by a hefty 33 percent. Applied widely, the test could thus save 20,000 lives from among the 60,000 deaths from colorectal cancer in the U.S. each year. The tests enable doctors to detect tumors and precancerous polyps at an early stage, when they are easiest to remove and most curable. 
 The Minnesota Colon Cancer Control Study followed more than 46,000 patients for 13 years. Some were screened with laboratory tests every year, some every two years, some not at all. If the screening test was positive, they were given a colonoscopy (inspection of the colon through a flexible scope) to see if cancers were really there, or if something else was responsible for the bleeding. Any tumors or precancerous polyps were removed.
The reason this study was able to reduce mortality may be that the stool samples were treated with a drop of water before being tested, thereby quadrupling the rate of positive tests and increasing the number of cancers detected. The water apparently makes the samples, which are often dry and hard by the time they reach the laboratory, more permeable to the reagents.
The only hitch is that adding the drop of water also produces a lot more false positive results in which the test flashes a warning but the person has no cancer. Bleeding, after all, has many causes, including hemorrhoids and ulcers. And the test can register falsely positive if the patient has ingested certain foods or medications.
The study found that 1 of every 10 people tested positive. But within that group with positive tests, only 2.2 percent were found to have cancer and only about 30 percent had the kind of polyp that sometimes develops into cancer. So a lot of very expensive follow-up colonoscopies were performed on people who had no cancer and would not have gotten it. Economists are now wrestling with the question of how the health gains from using the tests compare with the costs of administering all the follow-up procedures. Some experts think the tests could prove as helpful as the mammograms widely used to detect breast cancer.
Eventually, scientists may come up with better laboratory tests that can specifically identify the presence of tumors, not just the presence of blood. Meanwhile, the stool-blood test is the best available, and people over 50 have the best reason yet to get one annually. But they should probably ask the lab to add that drop of water.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (84%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (84%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (84%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (84%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (84%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (84%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CANCER; TESTS AND TESTING; COLON; RECTUM; EDITORIALS; RESEARCH COLORECTAL CANCER (95%); CANCER (92%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); ENDOSCOPY (89%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (89%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); HEMORRHOIDS (78%); BREAST CANCER (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



571 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: A Bipartisan Disservice

 BODY:
Senators David Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, and John Danforth, Republican of Missouri, proposed a deficit reduction plan yesterday that would, they say, cut about $120 billion of hated taxes and $160 billion of spending out of the Clinton budget plan.
And it would. But what the Senators -- joined by the Democrat J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana and William Cohen, a Maine Republican -- didn't say is that their plan would also shift tax burdens from South to North and from the rich to the middle class. It would also victimize some elderly poor and disabled families. 
 For what end? To eliminate Mr. Clinton's proposed energy tax, which, they say, hurts middle-class families. More accurately, it hurts oil-producing states like Oklahoma and Louisiana.
The most remarkable feature of the plan is its poverty of worthy ideas. Yet it poses an instant threat to President Clinton because Senator Boren is the swing vote on the all-powerful Senate Finance Committee; if he sides with the Republicans, Mr. Clinton's budget won't get past the committee.
The Senators would cut spending by capping entitlements, reducing tax credits for low-paid workers and cutting back cost-of-living adjustments for Social Security benefits. Each idea is unfair and unwise.
The entitlement cap would force severe cutbacks in Medicare and Medicaid. To whack $15 billion out of Mr. Clinton's plan to raise tax credits for low-paid workers, as they propose, would gut the President's worthy pledge to make work pay -- and thus raise any family with a minimum-wage worker out of poverty.
And by permitting inflation to eat away the benefits of some Social Security retirees and charging the disabled elderly more for medical care, the plan would do many poor and middle-class families more harm than good.
In turning sane public policy upside down, the plan would lower the Federal share of welfare payments in high-income states, many in the North, like New York. Thus the states that are already forced to bear an undue burden for taking care of the nation's poor simply because the poor are concentrated in their cities would be forced to do even more. That's a sure way to persuade state legislatures to ratchet down benefits.
The plan's tax measures are equally unfair. It would index capital gains -- thereby eliminating future inflation from the calculation of profit on the sale of investments. But that would open up a gigantic loophole in the tax code since the Senators do not simultaneously propose eliminating inflation from the calculation of deductions these investors take on borrowing costs incurred to buy investments. The Senators also propose scrapping Mr. Clinton's plan to raise payroll taxes on high-paid workers.
To their credit, the Senators would raise Medicare premiums for high-income families. But Congress was beaten to a pulp by an angry public four years ago when it tried to raise these premiums -- and then it at least tied the idea to increased benefits.
The main purpose of these misguided proposals is to eliminate Mr. Clinton's B.T.U. tax. Mr. Boren's and Mr. Johnston's motives are clear, since they come from oil-producing states. And they have some good arguments on their side: The tax won't do much for the environment, having been compromised to suit various special interests. And it will punish exports of goods that use lots of energy to manufacture.
But the B.T.U. tax isn't very large and hardly terrifying. Its removal won't help many in the middle class as much as the spending cuts the Senators propose will hurt them. And the tax cut surely doesn't warrant victimizing the elderly poor and low-paid workers.
The Administration will muster its forces to try to beat down Senator Boren and his Republican friends. It must also consider coming up with its own spending cuts so that could be used to take the sting out of its tax hikes. There is, then, plenty of room for President Clinton to operate, but little room to accommodate the misguided Senators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (58%); LOUISIANA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (58%); LOUISIANA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); AGING (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); MEDICAID (55%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BOREN, DAVID L (SEN); DANFORTH, JOHN C (SEN) DAN BOREN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



572 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Trickle-Down Mercy

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
The best way for the U.S. to help the Chinese people win relief from daily oppression is to keep enriching the Chinese economy through trade.
Yes, that will also enrich the treasury of the Communist Government and its ability to enforce Communist order in the country. But a strengthened economy with a flavor of capitalism, however controlled, will lead to liberalization of the dictatorship, help moderates take over when the old men die and so in the long run benefit the Chinese people. 
 Those two paragraphs are the essential argument of the American China-trade lobby and its supporters against economic pressure on the Chinese Communist Government.
Now, then: Blessed though I am by a disposition aptly described as angelic, that argument for trickle-down mercy is being droned out so often, and so cynically, that I may be forced to bite the next lobbyist who parrots it.
The lobby goal is to edge President Clinton away from using trade penalties to persuade Communist China to give up certain of its customary instruments of governance.
Among these are slave labor built into the economy, political suppression, imprisonment and torture, forced abortion, confiscation, trade barriers and proliferation -- the sale of nuclear and missile weaponry or technology to other dictatorships. Instruments like that.
Lobbyists have a right to lobby. And I cherish the daydream that one of them, just one, will get up and say -- Look, in China we get labor at bottom dollar, without health care or Social Security fusses, no unions, no guff, and what goes on in political prisons is not our affair; we are a business, not some Human Rights Watch.
That would be more acceptable morally than the drivel that what is good for the Communists is good for the people who suffer under them.
I heard it when I was a correspondent in Communist Poland -- help the Communists industrialize because increasedindustrializationleadstoincreasedliberalization, said like that, fast, a one-word mantra.
That lasted until a specific day -- when all those liberalizing Communists who were supposed to give Poles freedom decided instead to give them martial law.
And Americans who believe that dictatorships soften in a powerful capitalist economy never got to the point in history class where somebody told them about Adolf Hitler.
But China lobbyists do not embarrass easily. Here they are asking us to worry about China's economy, and it turns out, according to the International Monetary Fund, that it is the third-largest in the world, right behind the U.S. and Japan. Are we supposed to surrender first place, in searing sympathy for Beijing? All right, but then do we sock it to Japan for not getting out of China's way?
We are told we must not "isolate" China, which nobody is asking for. We are told that foreign presence itself ameliorates life in China. That will be of interest to farmers whose crops are confiscated, teachers tied to torture boards in prison -- and women forced into abortion 20 years after U.N. population-control people were allowed into the country.
President Clinton will decide in the next two weeks whether to impose economic penalties on China for violating human rights and for proliferation -- or give them one more year to be good boys.
One more year is what he will probably decide. But Congressional friends of Chinese freedom expect him to issue an executive order that would make the next 12 months the last year of grace to Beijing unless it behaves with a touch of decency. If he does not do at least that, Congress will.
Under such an order, tariffs would be raised if human rights decencies were not improved in China and Tibet, or U.S. products fairly allowed into China.
That should mean real products made by real American labor, not just parts shipped there from somewhere even cheaper, put together with American investment money and sold to us. And if proliferation continues, trade could be just cut off.
All that may not work. Communist bureaucrats have a personal stake in tyranny -- their lives. But Americans will have done what they can for the Chinese, which is better than sitting around year after year, telling ourselves lies about how we are helping the people by helping their tormentors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); POLAND (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



573 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Haircut Grounded Clinton While the Price Took Off

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 20

 BODY:
It may have been the most expensive haircut in history.
Two of Los Angeles International Airport's four runways were shut down for nearly an hour on Tuesday, some incoming flights were delayed and Air Force One sat on the tarmac with engines running -- all so that President Clinton's Beverly Hills hairstylist, Chistophe, could come aboard and give Mr. Clinton a high-price trim before he took off for Washington. 
 Questions about Mr. Clinton's runway razor cut dominated the White House news briefing today, with the communications director, George Stephanopoulos, scrambling to explain why the populist President tied up one of the country's busiest airports to have his hair trimmed.
 
Everybody Does It
 Federal Aviation Administration spokesmen were quoted by The Associated Press as saying that while Air Force One sat on the runway on an indefinite haircut hold, two of the airport's four runways were shut down and some commuter flights scheduled to land were forced to circle instead. The White House insisted, though, that the Secret Service had not sought any special hold on air traffic while the President was getting his locks shorn.
"Everybody has to get their hair cut," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. "I think the President normally gets his hair cut sometime during the week. It happens at different places. As you know, he has a very busy schedule, and he just tries to work it in when he can. That was when we were able to work it in."
And who paid for this haircut?
"The President and his family have a personal services contract with Cristophe to cover things like this," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. "They pay for it. It's for the whole family."
In light of Mr. Clinton's haircut by a stylist to Hollywood stars, Mr. Stephanopoulos was asked whether his boss was still the President of the common man.
"Absolutely," he answered. "And if you look at his economic package, it's a package that's designed to turn this around and to really get some real benefits to middle-class Americans. And that's what's important."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President Clinton's haircut aboard Air Force One named his hairstylist incorrectly. The stylist is Cristophe of Beverly Hills, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (58%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BARBERS AND BARBERING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRPORTS (93%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (92%); AIRLINES (78%); BARBER SHOPS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CELEBRITIES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); PERSONAL SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CHRISTOPHE (HAIRSTYIST) BILL CLINTON (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



574 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: At What Point Is Pay Too High?

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
How much pay should the chairman and chief executive of a small public-utility company get?
At Citizens Utilities, which is based in Stamford, Conn., $21.6 million seems to be the right number. That's what Leonard Tow, a 64-year-old economist who runs the little-known company received last year, according to an independent valuation by a leading pay expert. 
The $21.6 million package, which was compiled in a study of the company's public records, comes atop the $10.5 million that Mr. Tow got from the Century Communications Corporation, another publicly traded company he runs. None of it includes other provisions in his employment contracts that will shower him with millions of dollars regardless of the companies' performance.
 
In Bill Payer's Terms
 One way to look at it is that more than 800,000 Citizens customers in 13 states who get their electricity, water, gas and telephone service from Citizens paid an average of $26 last year to provide for Mr. Tow's pay.
On Wednesday, he received national attention as he showed a canny flair for deal-making when Citizens announced the purchase of several small telephone properties from the GTE Corporation for $1.1 billion.
But unappreciated until now, at least by his shareholders and state regulators, has been Mr. Tow's skill in deal-making for himself.
Not only has he wrung millions of dollars in compensation out of two small companies for what seems essentially to be part-time work, but he has done it under the ordinarily watchful eyes of state utilities regulators and consumer groups.
The huge payments come at a time when many big companies and their boards have somewhat restrained executive pay, or at least demanded superior performance in return.
Mr. Tow professes to know little about his pay -- which includes stock options, restricted stock awards and retirement benefits, in addition to nearly $1.3 million in base salary and bonus at Citizens. He said he has left the details to his lawyer and the company to work out.
Mr. Tow says further that he has not read the pay analysis by Graef S. Crystal, a leading compensation expert, and he says he does not know why Mr. Crystal's estimate came in higher than the $15.2 million reported in proxy filings. Either way, he said, Mr. Crystal is "off his rocker."
"My compensation is basically of the order of $1 million," Mr. Tow said. "Beyond that, everything else is related to some kind of grant or bonus which is performance-related.
"I'm not getting paid any differently than Mike Eisner at Disney or Roberto Goizueta at Coca-Cola," he continued, referring to these industry leaders' pay packages of the last two years that amounted to tens of millions of dollars. "I'm performing better than those guys and getting a fraction of what those guys get. It's hard to find a guy who can do it in one company. I do it with two companies.
"If you were working at two jobs, wouldn't you expect to be paid at two jobs?" he said. "That's exactly what I do. Even when I sleep, I think about these companies. I wake up in the middle of the night with a note pad, and am busy writing this idea or that idea down."
 
New S.E.C. Rules
 The extent of Mr. Tow's compensation came to light because of new proxy rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission last fall that forced companies to be more candid about executive pay. Those rules allowed Mr. Crystal to compile the detailed estimates of Mr. Tow's pay package.
Among Citizens' traditional strengths have been its geographic diversification and varied businesses. Now it seems these were reasons helping it elude regulators' attention.
California, for instance, regulates about 14,000 utilities. With that workload, when the staff of the state Public Utilities Commission recommended last year that it audit Citizens' general expenses before acting on a request for higher water rates, the four state commissioners were reluctant to delay the process. Citizens ultimately won the right to raise water rates 9 percent to 26 percent.
"They have a small presence here," said Dr. Norman Shumway in explaining how his group might have overlooked Mr. Tow's pay. Dr. Shumway, the pioneering heart-transplant surgeon, now serves as one of four commissioners who regulate California utilities. "It's way out of line with what the heads of other utilities make," he added. "That's a huge amount of money. It would be very relevant" to rate considerations.
Arizona regulators have also pledged to scrutinize the company more closely on its pending rate-increase applications. Citizens is also seeking increases in Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
"It's all hidden," said Ron Mathis, director of Arizona's Residential Utility Consumer Office. His staff has challenged overhead items before, but not stumbled over the matter of corporate pay. "$23 million," he said, "is way out of line."
Shareholders also seem likely to start showing more interest in the company's pay practices.
"It is unconscionable," Merle Thorpe Jr., a Washington securities lawyer who owns $3.6 million worth of Citizens stock plus a small amount of Century, said of Mr. Tow's compensation. "It's not as if he's been around this company for a long time and built it up."
In his view, Mr. Tow's pay is beginning to put a drag on Citizens' earnings. On annual revenue last year of $589 million, the company earned $115 million, up $2.7 million from the year before and the smallest percentage gain in more than a decade.
That Mr. Tow is now seeking to add his wife, Claire, an executive at Century Communications, to the Citizens board does not seem to help matters. "It just confirms the feeling that this is a board that maybe has lost its independence," Mr. Thorpe said.
But at Century, the other company where he is founder and chairman, the fact that Mr. Tow is well paid is less troublesome to Mr. Thorpe. Mr. Tow still owns 37.3 million shares of Century stock, a $284 million stake that entitles him to cast more than 63 percent of the votes. And the board is occupied by longtime associates, including his wife and son Andrew.
 
The Job, and More
 Mr. Tow's involvement at Citizens began in 1989, when Century purchased a 2 percent stake from an investor group led by Richard L. Rosenthal, the longtime chairman, who had once turned down Mr. Tow for a job. Mr. Tow won a seat on the board, and 14 months later he became Citizens' chairman and chief executive without forfeiting his Century jobs.
All three of the independent directors who negotiated his Citizens employment contract have close ties to the company. Robert D. Siff made $520,200 in consulting fees. Aaron I. Fleischman benefits from Citizens legal work. And Norman I. Botwinik got 7,271 options in the cellular-phone subsidiary that sold stock, netting him a $123,000 paper profit.
Regulators and consumer groups were often not much more effective at putting the brakes on Mr. Tow.
Instead of focusing on his pay package, an Arizona consumer group that is contesting his efforts to raise electrical rates challenged expenses that it found unnecessary last year. These included artwork, $23,145 for an executive chef, trips to Martha's Vineyard, acupuncture, picnics, softball uniforms, jewelry, nine chairs at $3,000 each, and $987,000 spent on improving a Stamford office building that Citizens emptied and uses for mostly for storage.
It also questioned $53,717 in board fees that the company pays Mr. Tow to attend his own meetings.
A longtime director of Century acknowledged that Mr. Tow's insistence on being paid to attend his own board meetings might seem excessive, but he defended the package.
"He's worth it," said Peter Solomon, an investment banker, member of Century's board and "close personal friend" of Mr. Tow. "He is the driving force of this business. Leonard is a wonderful thinker in terms of the evolution of these industries, and to a great extent we're paying Leonard for that creative mind."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 1993, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday with an article about the compensation of Leonard Tow, chairman and chief executive of Citizens Utilities, misstated the value of his pension in some editions. The pension has a total value of $18 million, not $18 million a year.
The article also misidentified a member of California's Public Utilities Commission. He is Norman D. Shumway, a former Congressman from Stockton, Calif., not Dr. Norman D. Shumway, the noted heart surgeon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard Tow, the chairman of Citizens Utilities. (Citizens Utilities) (D1)
 
Graph: "Well Compensated" shows values reported in proxy statements and values not reported (estimates) of Leonard Tow's 1992 pay packages. (Sources: Company documents, The Crystal Report) (pg. D1)
 
Chart: "Millions, Plus a Few Benefits" shows the many ways Leonard Tow made $32 million last year from two companies he runs (not counting stock options granted in earlier years), and the ways he has guaranteed himself that he will keep making money for years to come. (Sources: Company documents; Mr. Tow's employment contract with Citizens; The Crystal Report) (pg D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: T (NYSE) (83%); VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS UTILITIES CO; CENTURY COMMUNICATIONS CORP AT&T INC (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS UTILITIES CO; CENTURY COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC UTILITIES; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); BONUS PAY (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; TOW, LEONARD; CRYSTAL, GRAEF S LEONARD TOW (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993



575 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

Generation-Skipping Tax
 
Q. If a person of substantial means who inherits a large amount from his parent disclaims a part of it to let money go directly to his own children, what happens with the generation-skipping tax?
 JOYCE HERBERT MANN, Manhattan
 
A. Under a disclaimer, beneficiaries file a formal document with the court stating that they do not wish to accept some or all of a bequest from a will. A generation-skipping transfer tax, or G.S.T.T., whose purpose is to prevent the very wealthy from avoiding estate tax, is assessed when a bequest is made to a generation beneath the donor. But you can transfer up to $1 million to a lower-level generation without falling under this tax. 
 "If the amount disclaimed is not more than $1 million, and none of the $1 million exemption had been used, no G.S.T.T. would be due," said Martin M. Shenkman, a New York estate lawyer. There would be a levy, however, on any disclaimed amount exceeding the available exemption.
 
Car Leasing and Taxes
 
Q. We decided to lease a car instead of buying it. Since we are not the owners of the car, why did we have to pay the taxes on the entire price of the car?
 JEAN-PIERRE FOUCAULT, Evanston, Ill.
 
A. State and local sales taxes, which are always included when you purchase a car, are sometimes also required when you lease a vehicle, depending on the state. In some jurisdictions, the tax on leased automobiles is officially called a use tax, because you are being taxed for the privilege of using the property. Federal law requires the lessor to give you written disclosure of the tax to be paid.
Some states allow this tax to be included as part of your monthly payments and thus paid over two, three or more years. But in Illinois, autos leased for a year or more are subject to immediate taxation on the full purchase price.
"The tax," said Sam McGaw, acting director of the Illinois Department of Revenue, "must be paid before the vehicle can be registered. Leasing firms typically require the lessees to bear this tax obligation."
 
Reverse Mortgages
 
Q. What are reverse mortgages?
 JOCELYN SANTOS, Fairfield, Conn.
 
A. Reverse equity mortgages allow older homeowners who might not otherwise be able to afford to remain in their homes to do so. With such a mortgage, a homeowner pledges the equity in a house to a financial institution in return for a stream of fixed payments over a specific period, say, 10 or 20 years.
When the homeowner dies or sells the house, the bank is repaid the money it lent plus interest. "Reverse mortgages will normally carry an interest rate that reflects current fixed-mortgage rates for the same term," said John A. Tuccillo, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors.
A reverse mortgage, however, is not appropriate for individuals concerned about consuming their capital.
In addition, there will be origination, or closing, costs for reverse mortgages -- just as there are for most mortgages -- that could reach as high as $8,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GENERATION SKIPPING TRANSFER TAX (91%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (85%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (79%); SALES TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LEASING INDUSTRY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



576 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Better Yields in Canada? Perhaps, but With Risk

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
CANADA these days offers more of interest to United States citizens than its much-studied health-care plan. In fact, it offers lots of just that -- interest.
In the search for yield to replace income lost when certificates of deposit or Treasury securities bought at higher interest rates come due, Jay Goldinger, chief investment strategist of Capital Insight Inc., a Beverly Hills, Calif., brokerage house, has found an answer that delights him: two-year Government of Canada notes. 
 The notes are yielding 6.70 percent, a positive return after allowing for inflation even though the notes are subject to income taxes in the United States at the Federal, state and local levels.
By contrast, two-year United States Treasury notes now pay 3.75 percent, a negative net return even though taxed only by Washington.
"I am in love with the Canadian debt market," Mr. Goldinger said. "I think it is the most conservative, risk-averse play right now. Horace Greeley said, 'Go West.' We say, 'Look North.' "
Still, Mr. Goldinger acknowledges, "It's a lonely vigil to be bullish on Canadian debt."
Why? Other financial professionals cite a number of reasons for caution: currency market fluctuations, which are a risk when buying any foreign security; political uncertainty in a nation that is expected to call a general election within months and the troubled Canadian economy.
Martin Jaffe, senior vice president and chief operating officer of Wood, Struthers & Winthrop, the investment management subsidiary of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said he avoided foreign bonds unless a client lived in the country and needed local income or had a business reason to hedge. He cited an example of an American who owned a farm in Spain and needed enough cash flow in pesetas to operate it.
The reason he avoids foreign bonds is currency risk. "A couple of years ago Mexican bonds were earning 18 percent," he recalled. "A lot of people rushed in. Mexico devalued, and the value of their holdings plunged."
Mr. Jaffe's own strategy for conservative, income-oriented clients is serial maturities of two, three and four years in United States Treasuries and some corporates. "We can get more than 5 percent on average" in such portfolios, he said, adding that he was "staying short, not trying to squeeze every nickel currently," because he expects rates to rise in a year or two.
Tim Kochis, partner in Kochis & Fitz, San Francisco financial consultants, agrees about currency risks and also points to political uncertainties, although he added, "I have no expectation that Canada will default."
He pointed to the recent experience of many investors who bought high-yielding German securities figuring rates had to come down, and therefore, their principal value would rise. They were right -- in Deutsche marks -- but at the same time the mark fell against the dollar.
"Interest rates are capable of being politically manipulated," Mr. Kochis said. Governments may ease credit conditions to stimulate sluggish economies or tighten them to curb inflation or protect currencies. "Don't assume rates will move the same way domestic rates move," he added.
His point: Conservative investors should not buy the bonds of a country unless they have studied it, assessed the risk potential and still feel comfortable.
James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, has assessed the Canadian risk and is a decided bear. "Canada's debt statistics may shock even an American, with the ratio of public-sector debt to G.D.P., for instance, standing in excess of 100 percent," he wrote this month.
"Taking the Federal Government alone," he added, "Canada's receipts covered interest expense last year by a factor of 2.96:1, less than that of the United States (5.47:1) or Italy (4.35:1). At current trends of fiscal deterioration, interest coverage would slip to 2.5:1 by 2002."
Among the dire possibilities he cites for heavily indebted Canada are intervention by the International Monetary Fund to put its financial house in order.
Unemployment stands at 11.3 percent. A national election is expected to be called by fall, making it uncertain whether the weak Canadian dollar will be defended or allowed to slip further. Canadian bonds have been downgraded from AAA to AA+, and Canadians themselves use the phrase "debt crisis," Mr. Grant noted.
Mr. Goldinger, too, has assessed the risks, but he calls them "very slight." Canada is a stable democracy, and whoever is elected will honor the nation's debt obligations, he predicts.
The economy is heavily dependent on natural resources, and "gold and metals have been strong" of late, he said. "Canada is a little bit on the rebound."
Indeed, the Commodity Research Bureau Index, after moving in a narrow seven-point range around 200 for months, began climbing two months ago, and is now around 209.
In Canadian dollars there will be no loss of principal on two-year notes held to maturity, Mr. Goldinger said, and if the economy strengthens, leading the Canadian dollar to appreciate against the United States dollar, Americans will have a currency gain in addition to those rich interest payments.
In any event, the Canadian dollar, now at 78.83 cents to the United States dollar has been far less volatile than the mark or the franc, he noted.
Mr. Goldinger may make a persuasive case, but he seems to be nearly alone in making it for the conservative, risk-averse investor.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Neighbor's Rates" shows yeilds on two-year notes in Canada and the U.S. from 1991 to 1993. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; FINANCES; INTEREST RATES TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INCOME TAX (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); DEVALUATION (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



577 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC ADVISERS CAUTION PRESIDENT ON MEDICAL COSTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21

 BODY:
Some of the Clinton Administration's top economic officials told President Clinton on Thursday that they had serious questions about the cost and scope of the ambitious health-care plan being developed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, people who attended the meeting said today.
As Mr. Clinton nears crucial decisions on his health plan, his top advisers remain deeply divided on a question at the core of the proposal: how generous to make the standard package of medical benefits that would be guaranteed to all Americans. 
 These divisions emerged at a spirited three-hour meeting on Thursday night in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, where President Clinton's advisers on health policy and on the economy presented two starkly different alternatives.
 
Economic Team's Advice
 The economic advisers generally backed the more modest package of benefits, which would set higher deductibles and require larger out-of-pocket payments by consumers but less money from the Government and businesses, officials said.
By contrast, the health-policy advisers, apparently backed by Mrs. Clinton, tended to favor the more comprehensive package, which would be less costly to consumers but more expensive for the Government and businesses.
The tensions among Administration officials presage disagreements likely to erupt on Capitol Hill after Mr. Clinton sends his proposals to Congress. Both alternatives would probably require tax increases, but the size of the increases would vary with the generosity of the package. The President is buffeted by conflicting pressures to hold down costs and to make the benefits comprehensive.
 
Appeal of Richer Plan
 People who attended the meeting with the President and Mrs. Clinton on Thursday said no decisions were made then. But White House officials said today that Mr. Clinton tended to favor the more generous package of benefits and believed that all Americans should gain access to such coverage as swiftly as possible. Mr. Clinton originally intended to send his health-care plan to Congress by May 3, but the White House now says he will not unveil it before mid-June.
Health experts said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the head of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and Robert Rubin, coordinator of the National Economic Council, had espoused the modest plan for people who do not now have insurance.
Several economists in the Administration acknowledged that they favored the more modest package, but insisted, as one said, that "the economic team is not a coherent bloc."
The discussion focused on the generosity of benefits and the timetable for coverage to take effect.
The more modest proposal, described as Plan A, would set a deductible of about $2,000 a year for a family. The alternative, Plan B, would have a deductible of around $400. Patients pay their own health bills up to the deductible, and at that point insurance begins paying. Employers and employees would share costs under both plans, but the employees' share would be substantially bigger under Plan A.
By one estimate, Plan A is more generous than 20 percent of the private health insurance now in effect, while Plan B is more generous than 80 percent of the existing plans.
Benefits would be available under either plan by 1997 but they would be phased in more rapidly under the more generous plan.
The staff of the Task Force on National Health Care Reform, which numbered more than 500, is disbanding. Many people are going back to jobs in Government agencies and universities, leaving President Clinton to make tough decisions with his top advisers.
Robert O. Boorstin, a spokesman for the group, said about 30 people attended the meeting on Thursday. He would not give details of the discussion.
Besides Ms. Tyson and Mr. Rubin, the meeting was attended by Gene Sperling, the deputy assistant to the President for economic policy; Lloyd Bentsen, Secretary of the Treasury; Roger C. Altman, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury; Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services; Atul Gawande, a senior health policy adviser to Dr. Shalala; Dr. Philip R. Lee, a nominee for Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Stanley B. Greenberg, the President's poll taker.
People who attended the meeting said Mr. Bentsen and Mr. Altman had often sided with Ms. Tyson and the Council of Economic Advisers.
 
Benefits of Generosity
 Mr. Greenberg and Mr. Sperling suggested that there were political benefits to be gained from having more generous coverage.
"I've argued all along that it's very important for every American to have a stake in health-care reform," Mr. Greenberg said today. "I've encouraged people to think bigger rather than smaller. There is an enormous opportunity here. People want this to happen. It's important that there be genuine benefits and genuine security. A bare-bones program won't excite the imagination of the public."
Mrs. Clinton and Ira C. Magaziner, the manager of her health-care group, have supervised development of the President's health plan. In their public remarks, they have held out the prospect of comprehensive insurance coverage providing peace of mind and economic security to all Americans. But they have offered comparatively few details about how to pay for the new program.
Walter A. Zelman, an architect of the Administration's health plan, said at a conference here on Thursday that there had been "a fairly significant separation between those of us developing policy and those of us developing the politics of it."
Middle-income families may have to pay higher premiums or taxes under the President's plan, and the Administration may risk losing their support unless they get better health benefits than they now have.
Members of the President's economic team were also apparently concerned about how the health plan would affect Mr. Clinton's broader economic agenda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE LAW (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (CHMN); RUBIN, ROBERT E; ALTMAN, ROGER C (DEPUTY SEC) ; BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ROGER ALTMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



578 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
ANGOLA PEACE TALKS FALTER
Talks on a peace settlement in Angola ended in failure in the Ivory Coast when the warring factions were unable to agree on a cease-fire, after a U.N. envoy mediated nearly six weeks of negotiations. 1
 
G.M. SEEKS CRIMINAL ACTION
General Motors has asked Germany to take criminal action against Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, its purchasing czar who defected to Volkswagen, saying he and others took confidential documents when they left several weeks ago. 1
 
'SELF-CLEANSING' IN BOSNIA
While fighting continues across Bosnia and Herzegovina, droves of refugees are abandoning their homes in what aid workers call "self-cleansing" as all three Bosnian factions are pressing other ethnic groups to leave. 4
Clinton backs air power to protect U.N. troops at "safe havens." 4
Danube River countries say sanctions have cost them $12 billion. 4
 
VENEZUELAN LEADER IS REPLACED
A political opponent of free-market economic changes became Venezuela's Acting President after the Senate voted to authorize the Supreme Court to try Carlos Andres Perez on corruption charges. 3
 
A WARNING FROM KHMER ROUGE
The Khmer Rouge warned that U.N.-supervised elections scheduled to begin on Sunday would "put fuel on the flames of war" in Cambodia and accused the U.S. of plotting to destroy the Maoist guerrilla group. 3
 
RUSSIA WINS AID ON DEFICIT
Russia has reduced inflation, and the Government and the Central Bank have pledged to get better control over the budget deficit, the issuing of credits and the inflation rate. In response, the International Monetary Fund plans to provide $3 billion to finance Russia's budget deficit. 5
 
EUROPE IS FACING MORE HURDLES
The European Community is confronted by severe economic problems that have undercut its ability to carry out the major aims of the Treaty on European Union as member countries are faced with recession and economic nationalism. 5
 
Jerusalem Journal: Generals are switching from bullets to ballots. 2
 
National 6-8
 
AIDES SPLIT ON HEALTH CARE
President Clinton's advisers are deeply divided over the size of the standard package of medical benefits to be guaranteed by Administration's health-care plan.1
 
UNCERTAINTY ON ECONOMY
Although the recession has been declared over, many Americans say they remain uncertain about the economy and are fearful about their jobs. 1
 
TRAVEL AGENCY IS DROPPED
The White House unexpectedly dropped the travel agency with close ties to President Clinton that it had selected to take over its travel account. 1
The company in the travel office affair has aggressively grown. 8
 
CONTEMPT CHARGE OVER ARCHIVES
A judge cited the White House and the Archivist of the United States for contempt of court for failing to carry out his order to preserve computer records. 6
 
U.S. DEFINES MENTAL ILLNESS
The Government has officially defined "serious mental illness," a standard to help determine who is eligible for treatment in clinics that receive Federal funds. 8
 
TORTURE TRIAL IN ATLANTA
An Ethiopian immigrant who moved to the United States accused a co-worker of a long list of brutalities on behalf of the Ethiopian Government years ago. 6
 
UEBERROTH STEPS DOWN
Peter Ueberroth resigned as head of Rebuild L.A. amid criticism that the group, which aimed to improve the economies of troubled neighborhoods, was faltering. 6
 
The Attorney General met with the F.B.I. chief to discuss his tenure. 7
Religion Notes: A worldwide survey shows a strong belief in God. 25
 
Metro Digest 21
 
NEW FACES, SAME IDEOLOGY
Amid the ideological warfare over the teaching of sexuality and related matters in New York City's schools, voters elected more new faces to local school boards than ever before, but the ideological cast of those boards is unlikely to change. 1
 
APPOINTMENT BY COMMISSIONER
People who monitor the New York City Police Department review Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly's first seven months in office by noting an obscure bureaucratic move, an appointment to monitor community policing. 1
 
Business Digest 33
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-14, 45
Theater: Bergman's "Sade." 11
"The Charles Busch Revue." 13
Film: "Sliver." 11
Music: Clint Black and Wynonna Judd and Radio City. 11
Zap Mama's mix of traditions. 13
Dance: Jazz Tap Ensemble of Los Angeles. 14
Ballet Theater's "Informer." 14
Television: Docudrama on the heels of the news. 45
A Repeat of "Cheers" finale. 45
 
Sports 26-30
Baseball: The Green era begins with a loss. 27
Boggs gets four hits in Yanks' loss. 27
Boxing: Ferguson bets on himself against Bowe. 30
Columns: Anderson on boxing. 27
On Baseball 29
Football: A walking Byrd returns to Giants Stadium. 30
Hockey: Islanders' Arbour remembers to forget. 30
Track and Field: The best duels are at 400 meters. 30
 
Obituaries 9
Lieut. Gen. Joseph Smith; headed the Berlin Airlift operations.
Chester B. deGavre, a leader in World II airborne combat.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
Editorials
Managing the waste stream.
White House follies.
The President's locks.
A mighty fall in Venezuela.
Letters
Russell Baker: The trodden lament.
Peter J. Gomes: Back in the military closet.
Pei Minxin: Don't link China trade to human rights.
Paul L. Leventhal: The coming age of plutonium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CAMBODIA (79%); ISRAEL (57%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (57%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CAMBODIA (79%); ISRAEL (57%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); HEALTH CARE (86%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); INFLATION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); ETHNICITY (54%); ETHNIC GROUPS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



579 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY OF RUSSIA MAKES SOME GAINS

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 21

 BODY:
The Russian economy has made some gains in recent weeks, with inflation down to about 17 percent a month and new pledges by the Government and the Central Bank to get better control over the budget deficit, the issuing of credits and the inflation rate.
Those pledges have secured a new agreement between the Government and the International Monetary Fund intended to provide $3 billion to finance the Russian budget deficit. The financing is aimed at reducing sharply the amount of domestic credits issued by the Central Bank and the inflation they cause, Russian officials and Western diplomats say. 
 But the Russian economy is by no means stabilized. Officials and diplomats worry about an emerging dangerous pattern of periodic free spending and issuing of credits followed by austerity -- bingeing and dieting -- that some liken to bulimia.
When the Central Bank grants credits, it is in effect printing rubles. The credits are loans to borrowers like Russian industrial enterprises, which repay at artificially low interest rates, if at all. Their accounts are credited with sums of money, which they spend, increasing the amount in circulation.
A period of bingeing this spring is expected to follow the recent gains and bring significantly higher inflation, though not hyperinflation, before the summer is out.
The agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which is expected to be announced soon, will provide Russia a quick $1.5 billion and another $1.5 billion a few months after that. It is a significant departure for the fund, which was pushed to be more flexible with Russia by the United States and other members of the Group of Seven major industrial countries.
But doubts remain, within and outside the fund, that the Russian Government will be able to make good on its promises, especially since it lacks real control over the Central Bank. The bank chairman, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, survived another effort to oust him after the victory of President Boris N. Yeltsin in the referendum on April 25.
Mr. Gerashchenko and the bank have been widely blamed for issuing trillions of rubles' worth of credits to try to keep faltering industrial enterprises alive and to enable commercial banks to make cheap loans, pushing Russia's inflation to dangerous levels that reached as high as 30 percent a month in January. Mr. Gerashchenko has challenged the relationship between credits and inflation, while blaming the Government for lack of discipline in running a large budget deficit, which the bank must cover.
 
Pressure From the West
 He did agree last month, under pressure from the West and the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance, Boris G. Fyodorov, to limit credits in this year's second quarter.
But Mr. Gerashchenko admitted that he had enormous reservations, convinced that the Government would not be able to live within "unrealistic" commitments to tight credit. On Wednesday, he said the budget deficit was already going out of control and could hit 10 trillion rubles (about $10 billion) by the end of the year.
That's where the new monetary fund money will be helpful. The $3 billion will be used to buy rubles, which are then to be used to finance a big part of the budget deficit in a non-inflationary way, since the bank would not need to issue new money to cover the deficit.
The Government is promising to cut its budget deficit further. Officials say Mr. Fyodorov is now checking off on all major expenditures and deliberately underfunding some of the expensive promises Mr. Yeltsin made during the referendum campaign.
Western diplomats say the current official inflation rate of 17 percent for April reflects a sharp reduction in the issuing of credits early this year, after a credit binge in December created fears of hyperinflation. But there was another credit and spending binge in April and May, including huge increases due to the indexation of pensions and wages, that will cause higher inflation in a few months' time.
Officials say the degree of Central Bank commitment to the agreement is unclear. The accord sets limits on the growth of credit and calls for an increase in interest rates and no further large spending commitments by the Government this year. But the bank retains its freedom of action, and new Government ministers are talking about restoring significant state controls over planning and supply.
This week, the ruble lost almost 20 percent of its value, ending the week at 940 rubles to the dollar. The exchange rate, one official said, reflects the prevailing psychology, which is negative. "The exchange rate is the market saying that more inflation is coming," the official said. "I don't expect the economy to hit hyperinflation, but it may not get a lot better than it is now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) CENTRAL BANK & TRUST CO (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; PRICES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); DIETING (71%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



580 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Ueberroth, Amid Criticism, Quits Post at 'Rebuild L.A.' Consortium

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 21

 BODY:
A year after being appointed to attract jobs and economic hope to this city's troubled neighborhoods after the riots last spring, Peter V. Ueberroth resigned today as head of Rebuild L.A. amid growing criticism that the group was faltering.
Mr. Ueberroth, the former baseball commissioner who was best known for organizing the highly successful 1984 Summer Olympics here, came under fire in recent months for what critics said had been Rebuild L.A.'s failure to attract enough corporate support to create meaningful jobs. 
 At a hastily arranged news conference at the headquarters of Rebuild L.A., Mr. Ueberroth said he was stepping down as one of five co-leaders of the public-private consortium because he had become the focus of criticism, which, he said, was limiting the group's ability to move ahead. Mr. Ueberroth will continue to be a volunteer on the consortium's board.
From his appointment by Mayor Tom Bradley last May, Mr. Ueberroth was greeted with skepticism and hostility from many community groups and politicians who viewed him as a most unlikely savior for the inner city, despite his reputation for tackling gargantuan tasks.
A white Republican from suburban Laguna Beach, Mr. Ueberroth did not reflect the ethnic makeups of the communities that he was responsible for revitalizing, and many critics accused Mr. Bradley of abdicating his responsibility to a business executive.
 
$500 Million in Commitments
 Asked in an interview why he had become the focus of criticism, Mr. Ueberroth replied: "I don't know why the focus was on me. Maybe it was because I was the only appointment of the Mayor. Maybe it had some racial overtones, because I'm white. I don't know."
Mr. Ueberroth's departure raises questions about the future of what has become the nation's largest effort to bring together businesses, government and the community to work on social problems. Major cities across the nation have been closely watching Rebuild L.A. in hopes of adopting its tactics to rejuvenate their own languishing communities.
Rebuild L.A. said it had received more than $500 million in commitments from corporations, but those pledges have done little to change bleak social conditions in the inner city. Indeed, most of the corporate donations will be in the form of contributed equipment, buildings and support for training programs.
Mr. Bradley initially picked Mr. Ueberroth to develop Rebuild L.A. Mr. Ueberroth later appointed four co-leaders. Rebuild L.A. officials said the four other leaders would share equally in running the organization. One of them, Bernard W. Kinsey, is quite likely to become the de facto leader. Mr. Kinsey, a 49-year-old former executive of the Xerox Corporation, is a black Democrat who has been very visible recently delivering speeches on development.
Much of Rebuild L.A.'s troubles have stemmed from the fact that the public did not understand its role and had unrealistic expectations for what it could accomplish. Officials of the group have said its mission is to spur the private sector to make meaningful and sustainable investments in the inner city.
But many politicians and community groups viewed Rebuild L.A. as a cure-all for the problems of the inner city, and the organization was repeatedly called on to deal with other issues.
Korean-Americans wanted it to provide immediate assistance for merchants whose shops were burned. The president of the school board urged Rebuild L.A. to take a stand against a possible teachers' strike. And by virtue of its name, Rebuild L.A. was asked to speed the rebuilding of burned-out stores and ease racial tensions.
"Politicians broadened our mission to include other issues that were never part of our endeavor," Mr. Ueberroth said. "And when we couldn't deliver they criticized us. That's one of the reasons for my moving aside is the criticism of politicians."
Mr. Bradley issued a statement today praising Mr. Ueberroth's work, saying: "Peter Ueberroth's decision to resign as a co-chair of R.L.A. in no way diminishes his commitment to the organization and to R.L.A.'s efforts to attract private investment into Los Angeles. My supreme faith in him to spearhead this revitalization organization has been confirmed time and time again."
But a mayoral candidate, Richard Riordan, took the occasion to criticize Mr. Bradley for not taking a more active role in rebuilding the city. "Peter Ueberroth reflected the best a public citizen can be as the leading co-chair of Rebuild L.A.," Mr. Riordan said. "But a festering problem must be corrected to remove community concerns, a personal involvement by our next mayor."
Another mayoral candidate, Councilman Mike Woo, said in a statement that Mr. Ueberroth's resignation was an opportunity "for new thinking and new commitment to solving the problems that plague our city."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter V. Ueberroth before a news conference yesterday to announce his resignation as head of Rebuild L.A. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REBUILD LOS ANGELES (ORGN) XEROX CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REBUILD LOS ANGELES (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LABOR APPOINTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (79%); DISMISSALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RIOTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); BASEBALL (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); OLYMPICS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); CORPORATE GIVING (70%); RACE & RACISM (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); 

PERSON: UEBERROTH, PETER V; SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



581 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: VENEZUELA SENATE AUTHORIZES TRIAL

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, May 21

 BODY:
The President of Venezuela's Senate, Octavio Lepage, became Acting President today after the Senate voted unanimously to authorize the Supreme Court to try President Carlos Andres Perez on corruption charges.
Mr. Perez, 70, is not expected to regain presidential powers because a Supreme Court trial would likely continue beyond Feb. 2, the date his five-year term expires. 
 Within 30 days, Venezuela's Congress is to elect an interim President to serve until February. As President of the Senate, Mr. Lepage automatically assumed presidential powers with today's vote.
 
Crowds Greet Fall
 While jubilant crowds greeted Mr. Perez's fall from power today, several politicians and diplomats predicted in interviews that Venezuela, a major source of United States imported oil, faces eight months with a weak executive at the helm.
"The likelihood of political upheaval is way down," a Western diplomat said. "But it will be very hard for a weak president to resist backward steps in economic policy."
Mr. Lepage, an opponent of free-market economic changes and a onetime presidential candidate, today did not conceal his ambitions to rule Venezuela until next February. A lifelong politician, the 69-year-old Acting President comes from a wing of the governing Democratic Action Party that has been hostile to Mr. Perez's effort to dismantle state economic controls.
"For all his political life, Lepage has supported the interventionist economic policies of his party," Political Impact, a weekly newsletter, said today. "Over the last four years, he has been a critic of Perez's free-market efforts."
 
Propose Moving Up Elections
 To shorten a period of political drift, several politicians today proposed moving up the date of Venezuela's presidential and congressional elections, currently scheduled for Dec. 5. Causa R, a left-wing political party, proposed holding elections in August.
"The election date could be advanced, but it would take a constitutional change to move the inauguration date," said Oswaldo Alvarez Paz, presidential candidate of Copei, the leading opposition party.
Despite calls by radicals outside Congress for a military-civilian junta, a diplomat predicted today that foreign investor interest in this country will remain high.
"Venezuela's economic growth this year will be comparable or higher than Latin America's average," said Michael Skol, the United States Ambassador, referring to economists' forecasts of 5 percent growth in 1993. "The pace of Venezuela's economic growth over the last two years has been such that even a downturn does not represent a big deal."
Venezuela has the largest proven oil reserves in the Americas. After taking office in February 1989, Mr. Perez started opening the nation's state-controlled oil industry to foreign investment.
"The interests of oil companies in Venezuela is immense," Mr. Skol said. "There is almost a frenzy going on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Venezuelans demonstrating against President Carlos Andres Perez yesterday outside the Congress building in Caracas. Inside, the Senate voted unanimously to authorize the Supreme Court to try him for corruption. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (67%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES (PRES); LEPAGE, OCTAVIO (PRES); BROOKE, JAMES CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



582 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions Have a $12 Billion Ripple Effect Along the Danube

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21

 BODY:
The United Nations sanctions imposed on Yugoslavia have cost the other Danube basin nations more than $12 billion in the last 11 months, more than they have cost Yugoslavia, the governments of countries in the basin say.
With the tightening of the sanctions by the Security Council on April 26, the Danube basin countries' losses in transportation, trade and industry are expected to grow in the coming months. 
 The embargo begun last June against Yugoslavia, which consists of Serbia and Montenegro, has cost it $4 billion, Belgrade estimated last week.
 
The Calm 'Is a Disaster'
 Viewed during a tour of the lower Danube this month aboard a Romanian Air Force helicopter, the broad surface of Europe's mightiest waterway flowed unruffled by the wake of a single vessel. At the twin cities of Giurgiu, Romania, and Ruse, Bulgaria, normally bustling river ports, there was not a moving ship in sight. The same eerie calm prevailed for 40 miles upstream.
"It is a disaster for Romania," said Capt. Tudor Tataoana, the harbor master of Giurgiu. "We can't import and we can't export."
He pointed out his window, facing Ruse across the river, to scores of idled barges, tugs, and tourist ships. Among them were six Austrian barges and a Yugoslav oil tanker that had been here for months because they carry strategic cargoes and are therefore not permitted to travel into the Serbian section of the river, which begins about 250 miles upstream. Skeleton crews guarded them.
At Giurgiu, Ion Bigica, the Deputy Customs Director, said: "Normally this is like a major railway. Eight or 10 barge convoys from Russia and Ukraine, four or five from Bulgaria, plus the Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians. And we Romanians have the biggest fleet on the Danube.
"Nothing is going now. Zero."
 
Ripples Through the Economy
 Captain Tataoana said the sanctions had virtually closed Giurgiu's port, which on an average day serviced eight Danube vessels needing fuel or other supplies or loading and unloading.
As a result, entire factories have shut down for lack of raw materials. "Sixty longshoremen are out of work, and there is no money to pay them," the harbor master said.
"The Romanian economy was not in good shape to begin with," Mr. Bigica said in his office at the foot of Friendship Bridge, which carries road traffic across the Danube. "But we have made this sacrifice in the hope that powerful countries will help us."
Outside, scores of double trailer trucks from Europe and the Middle East were lined up on the narrow highway for half a mile, waiting to be processed by customs officials. The heavy road traffic is also a consequence of the Balkan conflict, Mr. Bigica said, since nearly all vehicles traveling between central Europe and Greece, Turkey and beyond have to detour around the war zone through Bulgaria and Romania.
 
Seeking Compensation
 A number of Danube basin countries have filed for compensation under Article 50 of the United Nations Charter, which permits governments to "consult" the Security Council on damages incurred by observing its resolutions, like the Yugoslav embargo. But there is no compensation mechanism, and an official of the 15-member sanctions committee said, "There is no money for indemnification."
A United States official said, "We are trying to steer talk away from indemnification. It's political dynamite."
Romanian officials estimate that the sanctions have already cost their country $7 billion. Hungary claims losses of $500 million for the second half of 1992, and Ukraine has estimated losses of $2.3 billion so far. Volodymir Khandogy, a Ukrainian diplomat, said sanctions were "leading to the bankruptcy" of the Ukraine Danube Shipping Company and the idling of its 25,000 employees.
Bulgaria has notified the sanctions committee of $1.8 billion in losses so far and "a sharp rise in the direct losses" from the latest tightening of the embargo, which it estimates is costing Bulgaria $234 million a month.
 
$10 Billion From Germany
 Austria has registered about $130 million in lost trade so far, with prospects of losing an equal amount in the next six months, while the Czech Republic estimates losses at $256 million for 1992. Germany has estimated a trade loss of $10 billion but has not broken out the loss along the Danube.
Even some enforcers of the sanctions are idle. The United States gave Romania and Bulgaria six new Boston Whaler patrol boats, but with international river traffic halted, the boats have become useless.
The Bulgarians have been using one of their whalers for water skiing, while the Romanians trucked one of theirs 50 miles north to Lake Snagov to take tourists on scenic trips for hard currency. "It is the only way we'll get any use out of them," a Romanian official said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The sanctions imposed on Yugoslavia are hurting other Danube basin countries. "It is a disaster for Romania," said Capt. Tudor Tataoana, harbor master of Giurgiu. "We can't import and we can't export." (David Binder/The New York Times)
 
Map showing location of Danube River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (95%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BULGARIA (90%); UKRAINE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); GREECE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; DANUBE RIVER; SERBIA; ROMANIA; BULGARIA ROMANIA (95%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BULGARIA (90%); UKRAINE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); GREECE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); SHIPS AND SHIPPING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BULK SHIPPING (76%); AIR FORCES (74%); MARINE TANKERS (74%); MARINE SHIPPING (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (55%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; TATAOANA, TUDOR (CAPT)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



583 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices Fall on Fed Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Short-term Treasury issues led a broad decline in the bond market yesterday as traders continued to react negatively to an unexpected spurt in the nation's money supply.
Traders were selling on expectations -- fueled by the money supply figures released late Thursday -- that the Federal Reserve would tighten interest rates. 
 Longer-term Treasury prices also declined as interest rates rose. The 30-year bond fell 18/32 point, pushing its yield up to 7.04 percent, its highest level in seven weeks, from 6.99 percent on Thursday.
The Fed's money supply data reignited fears that the economy is heating up and that inflation is heading higher. The Fed reported that the M-2 money supply measure, which tracks currency, checking and some time deposits, surged a larger-than-expected $20.1 billion in early May, on top of a large gain the previous week.
Those inflation fears were heightened by this week's $10-an-ounce rise in the price of gold, considered an investment hedge against inflation. Yesterday, gold for June delivery rose $3.20 an ounce, to $377.90, on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
 Alan Levenson, a money-market economist at UBS Securities Inc., said many bond traders thought the Fed might be forced to push interest rates higher to arrest inflation by the end of the third quarter.
Higher interest rates on new securities would hurt the value of bonds already sold. But short-term maturities stand to suffer the most from a tightening because the central bank uses short-term rates to carry out its monetary policy.
"The interesting feature of today's selloff is how hard the bill portion of the curve has been hit," Mr. Levenson said, referring to Treasury bills. "The idea that the Fed's next move will be to tighten, and it will happen sometime before the end of the third quarter, is perfectly reasonable."
The Fed's policy-making committee met this week, but minutes of the meeting will not be made public for six weeks. But yesterday, the central bank released minutes of its March 23 meeting that showed the Fed maintained a policy that neither favored nor opposed a change in rates. At the same time, several members expressed their concern that increases in consumer and producer prices could aggravate inflation.
Also depressing the short end of the bond market are concerns that the Treasury's auctions next week of bills and notes will overwhelm a market with little appetite for new supply.
The auctions reflect the Treasury's decision, announced earlier this month, to cut its sales of 30-year bonds and shift borrowing to securities with shorter-term maturities.
"Next week will be very critical to see how the market holds up in face of supply," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at First Chicago Capital Markets.
Short-term Treasury issues fell 3/32 to 7/32, and intermediate maturities dropped 11/32 to 15/32, the Telerate Inc. information service reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES BOND MARKETS (94%); MONEY SUPPLY (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



584 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
New Fears of Inflation Spur Advance in Precious Metals

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors rushed to gold and silver again yesterday amid renewed fears of inflation.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for June delivery rose $3.20, to $377.90 an ounce, while May silver rose 15.5 cents, to $4.669 an ounce. 
 Since falling to $327 an ounce last March, gold shot up to a two-year high Tuesday, with June gold trading at $383.50 during the day.
Most analysts have pointed to fear of inflation for the surge in gold, a traditional inflation hedge, although there has been no solid evidence of rampant inflation. The annual rate stands at 4.3 percent so far this year, compared with 2.9 percent last year.
 
Jump in Money Supply
 Martin Reichenberg, manager of trading services for Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J., attributed yesterday's rise in precious metals prices to a sharp drop in the Treasury bond market following a report Thursday that showed a jump in the money supply, which could lead to inflation.
"Once again, we saw people coming into the market when prices moved lower, trying to buy gold and silver," Mr. Reichenberg said. "Even after profit taking, new, fresh buying seems to be coming into the market."
Bernard Savaiko, a metals analyst with Paine Webber Inc. in Weehawken, N.J., said silver led the rally yesterday, which he believed was prompted by the money-supply situation and traders covering their positions before the weekend.
On other commodity markets, energy futures were mixed. Light crude oil for July delivery rose 34 cents, to $19.88 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. But June heating oil slipped 0.45 cent, to 54.44 cents a gallon; June unleaded gasoline retreated 0.13 cent, to 59.20 cents a gallon, and June natural gas fell 2.03 cents, to $2.119 for 1,000 cubic feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; SILVER GOLD MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); GASOLINE (74%); BONDS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



585 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: 'Witching Hour' Turmoil Pushes Dow Down 30.45

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The stock market fell broadly yesterday in moderately heavy trading, as the "double witching hour" added a final bit of turmoil to a hectic week.
The Dow Jones industrial average gyrated wildly after setting records for two consecutive days. It fell sharply after the opening bell, recovered quickly by 10 A.M., and languished for much of the day. But around 3 P.M., the Dow plunged in earnest, losing some 46 points, following a rise in gold prices in the afternoon. 
 The Dow closed down 30.45 points, to 3,492.83, although it gained 49.82 points for the week.
 
2 Expiration Dates
 Much of the Dow's volatility in the afternoon appeared tied to the "witching hour," which occurs every month when some options expire. Yesterday, both stock options and index options expired.
Institutions and big traders find it less expensive to buy an option that represents a bet on the future price of, say, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index than to buy shares in all the 500 stocks. But, like a lottery ticket that goes uncashed, successful bets become meaningless if such options go unused.
Thus, the options expirations can sometimes lead to a frenzied burst of buying or selling stocks, as they did yesterday.
But the market's direction was not all determined by the highly technical trading strategies of large investors.
Nervous traders were further rattled by an unexpected increase in the nation's money supply, which raised more fears of inflation. Gold prices rose sharply, while the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond climbed to 7.04 percent, its highest level in seven weeks.
Volume on the Big Board was somewhat heavy at 279.1 million shares, compared with Thursday's 289.2 million shares. The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index closed down 2.15 points, to 246.27. Losing stocks are outnumbering winners by 1,134 to 797.
Among other market indicators, the Nasdaq composite index was down 3.14 points, to 694.29. But the American Stock Exchange market value index, reflecting a large number of gold and oil stocks, was up 0.57 point, to 432.86, a record for the third day in a row.
Late Thursday, the Federal Reserve Board said that its main measure of money supply, known as M-2, rose an especially steep $20.1 billion in the week ended May 10, reviving traders' fears of inflation and a possible move by the Fed to raise interest rates.
But John R. Williams, a managing director of the Bankers Trust Company, played down the number's significance. He wrote in a commentary that the figures might simply mean that more people were keeping funds in cash and other liquid balances because of uncertainty in the stock and bond markets.
 
Gold Stocks Rise
 Gold stocks followed the rising price of gold. Echo Bay Mines, for example, was up 3/8, to 12 1/8. It was once again the most active stock on the American Stock Exchange, with 2.34 million shares changing hands. The exception to the modest rise for the gold group was Newmont Mining, up 2 1/2, to 52 1/8.
As in yesterday's trading, Spectrum Information Technologies was the most noteworthy stock, although volume was sharply down. Nonetheless, at 15.7 million shares, compared with 34.4 million shares Thursday, it was the most active stock on any exchange. Spectrum Information, whose prospects for growth have been severely questioned recently, closed down 1/8, to 5 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (57%); K (TSX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (57%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: KINROSS GOLD CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (88%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); LOTTERIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



586 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

Companies
General Motors has asked Germany to take criminal action against Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, its purchasing czar who defected to Volkswagen, saying he and others took confidential documents when they left several weeks ago. Mr. Lopez stunned the auto world when he unexpectedly resigned after nine months in the United States. [Page 1.] 
 Kmart will shut 3 Pace Membership Warehouses and sell 14 to Wal-Mart, a sign that the long-anticipated shakeout the warehouse club industry has begun. [33.]
The rivals in the race to set an H.D.T.V. standard may agree to form an alliance and produce a unified system. [33.]
E-II Holdings said its creditors would receive more under a revised bankruptcy plan than under its original offer. [36.]
Discount Corporation of New York accepted a $65 million offer from Zions Bancorp of Utah, marking the end of the last independent primary dealer of United States Government securities. [35.]
For the first time, Phillips-Van Heusen will be run by someone outside the Phillips family, as Bruce J. Klatsky, the president and chief operating officer, assumes command. [35.]
Nordstrom will try to make due with two co-presidents instead of four, two years after it created the rare management structure that mirrored its four-man chairmanship. [35.]
Northwest Airlines' pilots gave a lukewarm reception to reports that the company had asked its bankers to defer payments on its $2.14 billion debt. [35.]
 
The Economy
Confidence in the economy slid anew, suggesting that consumer and business spending is likely to remain uneven and that President Clinton's political troubles are still growing. The latest surveys of consumers and businesses show the resurgence of hope that occurred between Mr. Clinton's election and his economic policy speech before Congress in mid-February has been totally erased by anxieties over higher taxes. [33.]
Two Federal Reserve governors called for raising rates when the central bank's policy-setting committee met in March. [33.]
 
International
American demands ran into stiff opposition from Canada and Mexico at negotiations about enforcement of labor and environmental safeguards. The talks left uncertain whether President Clinton would be able to meet his deadline of submitting tough supplemental accords to Congress by mid-July. [33.]
A Tokyo court found eight companies guilty of fixing prices of plastic film used for wrapping food and fine them $54,000 to $73,000 each. Many critics inside and outside Japan say the case shows how timidly the Japanese Government is confronting price-fixing. [35.]
 
Markets
The stock market fell broadly in moderately heavy trading, and the Dow Jones industrial average ended down 30.45 points, to 3,492.83. For the week, it gained 49.82 points. [34.]
Short-term Treasury issues led a broad decline in the bond market as traders continued to react negatively to an unexpected spurt in the nation's money supply. [43.]
Investors rushed to gold and silver again amid renewed fears of inflation. [44.] The dollar rose against leading European currencies as traders continued to sell German marks. [44.]
 
Your Money
The way newlyweds set up financial arrangements is changing, a result of the shifting role of women and the erosion of the presumption that marriage is forever. [31.]
The search for higher rates could lead to Canada, where two-year notes are yielding 6.47 percent. Investing: Jan M. Rosen. [31.]
Many homeowners overlook whether their insurance coverage provides enough liability coverage, insurance experts say. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ZION (NASDAQ) (69%); GM (NYSE) (58%); PVH (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: ZIONS BANCORP (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); E-II HOLDINGS INC (57%); PVH CORP (56%); DISCOUNT CORP OF NEW YORK (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BONDS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLITICS (72%); AIRLINES (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); MONEY SUPPLY (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); MARKETING SURVEYS (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (51%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



587 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Casino Bill Allowed to Die In Connecticut

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 21

 BODY:
The Las Vegas gambling industry's high-stakes drive to legalize casino gambling in Connecticut ended today in retreat, when legislative leaders and representatives of Mirage Resorts jointly agreed to let the proposal die for the year without even taking a vote that they said would be sure to fail.
The announcement represented a major victory for Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who led the forces against the casino plan through a five-month battle of wits and wills with Mirage Resorts' chairman, Stephen A. Wynn. 
 Mr. Wynn had pledged to invest $700 million in casino and entertainment complexes in Bridgeport and Hartford and to create 22,000 new jobs in a state battered by recession and cuts in military production. Mr. Weicker said casinos would increase crime and create only low-wage service jobs that would ultimately drag Connecticut's economy down.
"Thank you to the men and women of the Legislature who have put their state first," Mr. Weicker said in a statement. "I never lost faith."
 
'There Were Not Enough Votes'
 Debate had been scheduled for Monday in the House of Representatives, but House leaders, meeting with Mirage officials, concluded late in the day that the measure -- even if it did pass with a majority -- would come nowhere near the two-thirds margin that would be required to override Mr. Weicker's promised veto.
"We're realists," said Richard D. Bronson, a spokesman for Mirage. "There were not enough votes."
Mr. Bronson said, however, that the battle was far from over. He said that Mirage, which has already waged what state ethics officials say is the most costly advertising and lobbying campaign in state history -- more than $1 million in just the first few months of this year -- would continue to make its case with eye toward next year's legislative session.
"I'm not sure we ever expected in one fell swoop, in just one year, we'd be able to get something like this through," he said.
Mr. Weicker, a third-party independent Governor with no party loyalists in the General Assembly, announced last year after Mr. Wynn's first proposal to build a convention center and casino in Hartford, that he would oppose it with all his power. But the Governor was not content simply to promise a veto when and if the time came, and his political moves seemed to catch casino promoters off balance time and again.
In January, he signed an agreement with the Mashantucket Pequot Indian tribe under which the Indians could operate slot machines at their casino in Ledyard. The tribe agreed to pay the state a minimum of $100 million a year in slot-machine profits as long as it retained a monopoly on slot machines. If casinos and slot machines were legalized off the reservation, the Pequot Fund, as it was dubbed, would immediately end.
Mr. Wynn responded by pledging to match the Pequot money, and exceed it.
 
Reducing Taxes
 Earlier this week, as the countdown to the first floor debates on the issue began, the Weicker administration negotiated a deal to reduce the taxes paid by the state's existing gambling operations, the jai alai frontons and the dog track in Plainfield. Those companies had said that without the slot machines they would get as part of the casino bill, they could go out of business.
Mr. Wynn, who had already withdrawn his Hartford proposal in the face of local opposition from business leaders, then said he would have only table games like blackjack and roulette at his Bridgeport casino. That would preserve both the tax cut and the Pequot money, Mirage officials said.
But Mr. Wynn, in a news conference today before the announcement that the casino bill was dead, also said that in the last few weeks he had been in negotiations to buy almost all of the state's existing gambling enterprises, including the jai alai frontons in Milford and Hartford. The idea, he said, was to put those buildings "to other uses" once a casino was established and so avoid "too much gambling" that would dilute the impact of the casino.
Mr. Wynn said that Mr. Weicker's single-minded opposition controverted what opinions polls have indicated about support for casinos in the state.
"He needs a victory, and he has picked this as a Waterloo moment," Mr. Wynn said. "He's a cute fellow."
 
A Battered Economy
 The backdrop to both sides in the debate has been the question of where Connecticut's economy will go from here. The state, for years a compact dynamo of military manufacturers and financial services giants, has been battered on all fronts by the recession, which has eliminated almost 200,000 jobs in the last four years.
The campaign for the Mirage dealt with little else but that statistic, and asked residents and legislators the pointed question: if not casinos, then what?
Mr. Weicker argued that manufacturing should be the state's hope for the future and has pledged millions in grants and loans to retain companies and sell the state as a location for businesses. The Greater Hartford Chamber of Commerce also became an ally after insurance industry leaders at companies like Aetna and the Travelers expressed opposition to a casino in their hometown.
Inside the Legislature the casino bill's chances were also hampered by the fact that the leaders in both parties were opposed to the idea and would twist no arms for votes. There were even indications through the day today that with the two-thirds margin unreachable, lawmakers who favored the idea were saying they might vote no to avoid going down with the ship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MIRAGE RESORTS INC MIRAGE RESORTS INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIRAGE RESORTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; BRIDGEPORT (CONN); HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CASINOS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS CASINOS (94%); GAMING (93%); LOBBYING (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESORTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ETHICS (63%); NATIVE AMERICANS (62%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV); JOHNSON, DIRK; WYNN, STEPHEN A STEPHEN A WYNN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



588 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Tumbles

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Confidence in the economy and in the Clinton Administration's handling of it took another tumble in May, suggesting that consumer and business spending is likely to remain so-so and that the President's political troubles are still growing.
The latest surveys of consumers and businesses show that the resurgence of hope that occurred between the election of President Clinton and his economic policy speech before Congress in mid-February has been totally erased by anxieties over higher taxes. Indeed, approval of the President's economic policies has plunged in the last month while disapproval has grown dramatically. 
 "This reflects worries about Washington," said David Kelly, an economist at the Boston Company Economic Advisers. "We've still got a half-paced recovery. That hasn't really changed."
 
Sharp Contrast With Reagan
 The abrupt loss of faith in the Clinton expansion contrasts starkly with rising confidence in Reaganomics during President Ronald Reagan's first spring in office, even after taking into account the surge in public sympathy after President Reagan was shot.
The University of Michigan index of consumer expectations -- which is based on a monthly survey of households around the country and figures in the Government's economic forecasting gauge -- dropped sharply in May, to 71.9 from 76.4 in April. The May reading is the lowest since last October.
The President's approval rating among consumers fell to 7 percent in May, from 15 percent in April, only a shade higher than President Bush's rock-bottom 5 percent rating last August.
Despite White House efforts to reach out to executives, the Cahners Business Confidence index, which measures business expectations about the economy, has dropped to its pre-election level after rising sharply during the fall and winter.
 
Only One Ingredient
 To be sure, the U-turn in confidence is the third since the recession ended in March 1991, and the mood of consumers and businesses is only one ingredient in buying decisions. Pay and profits, interest rates and inflation also count for a lot.
In this case, the snippets of economic data available for May suggest that retail sales continue to rise and car sales have weakened, but only after a very strong April. Conditions in the job market have stabilized.
The latest decline in confidence "won't abort the recovery, it's just a characteristic of this weak recovery," said Roger Brinner, chief economist at DRI/McGraw Hill.
 
Investors Ignore Survey
 The Michigan survey, which covers the first half of May, was released last week to clients -- some of whom passed some details to reporters -- but was ignored by investors who were more worried about inflation.
The overall Michigan consumer sentiment index -- a summary measure that reflects consumers' feelings about the present as well as the future -- fell to 81.9 in May from 85.6 in April, a significant drop in a measure that is not particularly volatile.
The main reason for the decline: Consumers' expectations about future business conditions took a dive.
Consumers' view of current economic conditions also turned a little gloomier, slipping from a reading of 99.9 to 97.4.
Confidence in the Clinton economic policy also took a turn for the worse: 52 percent rate the president's performance "fair" and 39 percent, up from 28 percent in March, as "poor."
As for executives, Cahners Economics, an economic research firm in Massachusetts, reported that their confidence fell sharply this month, another indication -- following on yesterday's report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve -- that production could rise at a slower pace this month than last month.
One encouraging note in the Cahners survey is that businesses do not seem unduly concerned about the March pileup in inventories. Only 7 percent of the managers surveyed said they planned to scale back production.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Faith No More" shows results of a consumer confidence survey from April 1992 to May 1993. (Source: University of Michigan; Cahners Economics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BOSTON CO INC (70%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (51%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); RETAIL SALES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); MARKETING SURVEYS (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NASAR, SYLVIA RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



589 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Continued Selloff of Marks Helps Dollar Rise in Europe

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against leading European currencies yesterday as traders continued to sell German marks.
The Japanese yen, meanwhile, strengthened against the dollar on continued speculation that the United States Government favored a stronger yen as a way to trim America's large trade deficit with Japan. 
 The rush to sell marks began on Tuesday, when Danish voters approved the European treaty on closer political and economic ties. That removed the immediate threat of turbulence in Europe's monetary system and led traders to sell marks and buy the Danish krone and other European currencies.
Traders are also increasingly uncertain about the interest rate policy of Germany's central bank, the Bundesbank, which is under pressure to ease rates to help stimulate the country's troubled economy.
 
Dollar Mirroring the Mark
 "Generally speaking, the strength of the dollar against Continental currencies isn't necessarily due to a strong dollar but mirroring weakness of the mark," said Albert Soria, first vice president of Kansallis Osake Pankki, a Finnish bank.
The dollar rose more than a pfennig, to 1.6305 marks, before easing to 1.6256 marks in late New York trading, up from 1.6168 marks on Thursday.
Traders continued to buy the Japanese yen following the release of American trade figures earlier this week showing that the merchandise trade deficit ballooned in March.
That reignited speculation that the United States Government would aim to support the yen as a way to reduce the deficit. A stronger yen makes Japanese imports more expensive in the United States and American exports cheaper in Japan.
But the dollar failed to break below the important 110.00-yen level amid unconfirmed rumors that the Bank of Japan bought dollars during Tokyo trading to try to arrest the yen's appreciation.
In New York late yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 110.35 yen, down from 110.65 yen on Thursday.
The British pound, meanwhile, was quoted at $1.5430 in late New York trading, down from $1.5560 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); DENMARK (93%); FINLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GERMANY UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); DENMARK (93%); FINLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); GERMAN MARK (92%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPROVALS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



590 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Coast to Coast, Workers Say Fickle Economy Is a Riddle: The West;
From Boom to Bust And at Loose Ends

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RANCHO CUCAMONGA, Calif., May 19

 BODY:
In these hard times, more and more fathers have been appearing in the afternoons to pick up their children at the Coyote Canyon School, unemployed and at loose ends here in what was recently one of the fastest-growing regions in the country.
The fathers, who are former aerospace workers, construction men and real estate brokers, stand in the baking sun outside the new $8 million school that began to retrench as soon as it opened last year, cutting back staff positions and increasing class size as the money melted away. 
 "I have a lot more time to coach Little League now," said Frederick Fuhrmann, who lost his job as a trucking company sales manager eight months ago and was waiting today to pick up his son Jason, 9. "But by the same token, it's harder to pay the expenses of Little League."
Along with the rest of the Inland Empire, the parts of Riverside and San Bernardino counties that stretch eastward into the desert from Los Angeles, this young town of 115,000 people rode the crest of a boom in the aerospace and defense industries in the 1980's. More than a million people moved into the region in the last decade; now, with the sudden collapse of those industries, unemployment here has soared to nearly 11 percent.
 
Pessimism at Arm's Length
 "I think every family has someone who has been affected," said Eva Schneider, the school's librarian. But even though most economists say they see no short-term way out of the region's economic collapse, Mrs. Schneider, like most people here, still keeps her pessimism at arm's length.
"My husband works with McDonnell Douglas and he hasn't received his pink slip yet, at least as of last Friday," she said. "We try not to let the future get us down. There's always the hope that our President will get us out of this slump."
Economists see the Inland Empire as a microcosm of the California boom of the 1980's and of its current collapse. In his swing through California this week President Clinton asserted that the fate of the nation's economy is tied to that of its most populous state, and this region now presents a test of his ability to lead an economic revival.
"I voted for Clinton and I'll stand by him until he does something wrong," said Randy Robinson, an unemployed aerospace worker who had come to school to pick up his two daughters.
Inside the cool, high-ceiling school building, Sam Kachaenchai, a 47-year-old immigrant from Thailand, was completing his second day of work in four months, as a substitute janitor.
Five years ago he and his wife moved here from Chicago when a rapidly expanding local hospital recruited her to work as a nurse. Mr. Kachaenchai immediately found a job as an engineer.
"When we came here it was very, very exciting," he said. "We bought our house through the telephone. We chose the color, chose the carpeting, everything through the mail."
Within four days last January, both husband and wife lost their jobs because of retrenchments that included the layoffs of 152 people at the hospital. They now support themselves in part with the money their two teen-agers earn delivering newspapers.
But Mr. Kachaenchai refuses to be discouraged. "I came to America for the opportunity," he said. "It's still better than the third world, where I come from. I say that from the heart."
From around the country, hundreds of thousands of people joined Mr. Kachaenchai in seeking opportunity in Rancho Cucamonga and its neighboring communities.
"This was the American dream neighborhood; everything was booming along," said Patt Hatcher, the principal of Coyote Canyon School. "Now we're terrified. Everyone is in terrible shape. It's like the ax is going to fall."
Almost every day, she said, a teacher or a parent at the school reports that a husband has lost his job, and everyone rallies around to try to find him another job. Some fathers now work as classroom volunteers and playground proctors.
"We've got to do something different," Mrs. Hatcher said in frustration. "The President is saying, 'This is what we've got to do.' Well, let's do it. Let's at least do something. I just wish they'd quit fighting and get going."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kansas City, Mo.: "A lot of things I always took for granted -- having a big family, owning a house -- it just doesn't seem realistic anymore," said Floyd Rucker, a veterinarian's assistant. "It seems like you've got to break your back just to stay even." He and his wife, Vivian Kizer, a preschool teacher, illustrate the nation's economic riddle: consumers await economic recovery, which awaits consumers. (Photographs by David Hutson for The New York Times); Rancho Cucamonga, Calif.: "I came to America for the opportunity," said Sam Kachaenchai, an immigrant from Thailand. He and his wife lost their jobs within four days last January. "It's still better than the third world, where I come from. I say that from the heart." (Scott Robinson for The New York Times) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (91%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; RANCHO CUCAMONGA (CALIF) UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PUBLIC OPINION CHILDREN (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NURSES & NURSING (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (57%); TRUCKING (54%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



591 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Fed Panel Was Urged To Lift Rates

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21

 BODY:
Two Federal Reserve governors called for raising interest rates when the central bank's main policy-setting committee met in March, and some economists say the two might have won more support at last Tuesday's meeting because of the big jump in inflation in April.
According to the official summary of the March 23 meeting, two Fed governors, Lawrence B. Lindsey and Wayne D. Angell, called for an immediate increase in rates to fight inflationary pressures, saying such a move was needed to prevent a more drastic rate increase later on. 
 But a majority of the group, including Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, voted not to change their policy, which favors neither an increase nor a cut in rates. The group expressed confidence that inflation would remain low.
 
Prices Jumped in April
 That optimism was certainly reduced by April figures showing an increase of six-tenths of 1 percent in producer prices, the largest in two and a half years, and a rise of fourth-tenths of 1 percent in consumer prices.
The Fed is not scheduled to release its summary of Tuesday's meeting until early July, although it could raise or cut rates at any time.
Many economists say that despite the recent news on inflation, the weak economic growth in the first quarter has led the committee to stay with its policy favoring no change in rates.
But there are some economists who say the Fed committee might have adopted a tilt toward higher rates because that would give the Fed more flexibility to raise rates in case inflation is high in May.
In interviews and speeches in recent weeks, Fed officials have said the inflation picture requires close scrutiny. The price increases in April brought the annualized increase in the core inflation rate, which excludes volatile energy and food prices, to 4.2 percent over the last seven months, from 2.7 percent over the previous six.
Some Fed officials say the economy is at a crossroads, with the Fed having to make sure that inflation continues heading toward 2 percent and not jumping back to a 4 to 5 percent rate. If inflation were to climb to that level, central bank officials fear, long-term bonds could jump back to 10 percent. That could further slow the already sluggish economy.
Mr. Angell and Mr. Lindsey said in the March meeting that monetary policy was not tight enough because the Fed's 3 percent interest rates were somewhat lower than the inflation rate. They worried that inflation would be fueled by a surge in commodity prices and the weakness of the dollar, which makes foreign goods more expensive.
In the summary of the March meeting, the majority of the committee expressed the view that the upturn in prices in January and February, compared with late last year, might be a temporary blip. The committee pointed to several factors that were inconsistent with higher inflation, including high unemployment, fierce competition in many markets, slow growth in the money supply and no growth in industrial orders.
 
Some See Disinflation

 
 The report said, "Most of the members concluded that the evidence at this point did not confirm a resurgence in inflationary pressures, and some commented that further modest disinflation remained a reasonable expectation for the next several quarters."
The summary added that the members acknowledged that recent price developments "had raised a degree of unease in their minds, and their concerns would rise if the recent pace of price advances was sustained in the months immediately ahead."
The Federal Open Market Committee meets eight times a year, and sets the Federal funds rate, the rate the central bank sets on overnight lending to banks. The committee comprises the 7 governors of the Federal Reserve Board and 5 of the presidents of the Fed's 12 district banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; PRICES; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; ANGELL, WAYNE; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



592 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Coast to Coast, Workers Say Fickle Economy Is a Riddle: The East;
Things Are 'Flat But Improving'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, May 20

 BODY:
Pest control may not be a leading economic indicator, but Chris Pickering, an exterminator here, says his business is highly sensitive to the economic well-being of his customers.
His business was flat last year, Mr. Pickering says, but it has been improving slightly this year. "That means people here don't think the economy is all that bad," said Mr. Pickering, 26, the manager of a Terminix International office in a middle-class corner of Philadelphia. 
 Economists say Mr. Pickering's "flat, but improving" assessment of the economy is a fair description of the situation in the Middle Atlantic States and New England.
"These regions were the first to enter the recession, and they will be the last to pull out of it," said Paul C. Bishop, director of state and metropolitan forecasting at the WEFA Group, a private consultant in suburban Bala-Cynwyd.
 
Four Structural Problems
 He said Philadelphia's economy shares the four structural problems that plague the economies of most Northeastern states: an oversupply of commercial office space, an overdependence on military contractors, declining populations and relatively high taxes and energy costs for businesses.
Thomas D. Kramer, a 27-year-old commercial real estate broker, is well aware of the vacant office space in Philadelphia, where 6 million of the city's 35 million square feet of office space are empty. Mr. Kramer, an assistant vice president of Albert M. Greenfield & Company, said that last year he made about 30 phone calls a day seeking new clients but now has to make 100 calls a day to remain competitive. "It's a war out there," he said.
Mr. Kramer said that many of his friends who have degrees from Ivy League graduate schools are out of work, and that he feels lucky to be doing as well as he is. Nonetheless, he is disappointed. He had expected that after three years' work he would have saved enough money to buy a house.
Now, he said, the economy is so uncertain that he would not buy a house until he had saved enough for two years' mortgage payments as well as a downpayment. "I work on straight, 100 percent commission, and face a huge uncertainty," he said. "Next year I may make nothing."
Fear of the future is particularly intense among defense workers. The planned closing of the Philadelphia Naval Base and other military installations by 1997 will eliminate about 17,500 jobs directly and 40,000 related jobs, or about 7.5 percent of the jobs in the Philadelphia area.
These defense-related jobs are at companies like VIZ Manufacturing, which makes meteorological instruments. In the last year, the company laid off 50 of its 175 employees.
"It's extremely difficult to lay off workers, and it creates a lot of uncertainty for the people who stay," said V. Scott Zelov, 35, who is president of the company that his grandfather started here in 1933. "It's more difficult and stressful to work in a company where we're cutting back, rather than growing."
Mr. Zelov said he often puts in 12-hour days now as he tries to develop new commercial products to replace lost Government contracts. "We're trying," he said, "but it's a very long process."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philadelphia: "It's extremely difficult to lay off workers, and it creates a lot of uncertainty for the people who stay," said V. Scott Zelov, president of VIZ Manufacturing, the defense-related company his grandfather started in 1933. "It's more difficult and stressful to work in a company where we're cutting back, rather than growing." (Sal DiMarco for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (66%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ALBERT M GREENFIELD & CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA); NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); MILITARY BASES (71%); METEOROLOGY (68%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (66%); NAVIES (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; PICKERING, CHRIS; ZELOV, V SCOTT DAVID DAVIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



593 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: A Mighty Fall in Venezuela

 BODY:
As the United States' second-largest oil supplier and one of Latin America's longest-running democracies, Venezuela merits special attention. The downfall of its flamboyant President, Carlos Andres Perez, on charges of massive embezzlement of public funds poses no obvious threat to the oil flow. And it just might check the undermining of democratic morale that provoked two nearly successful coup attempts within 16 months.
Mr. Perez has been modern Venezuela's dominant political figure, serving as President for 9 of its 34 years of democratic rule. He has also thrust himself into the international spotlight, offering himself as a mediator of the violent conflicts that have convulsed Nicaragua, El Salvador and Haiti. 
 In his first term, during the 1970's, Mr. Perez nationalized Venezuela's oil industry and used the revenues to entrench a social democratic welfare state. In his second, he reversed course, pushing through free market reforms that have brought Venezuela some of the hemisphere's highest growth figures while devastating the living standards of its poor and middle-class citizens.
Mr. Perez's entourage has always emanated an aura of corruption. But what seemed tolerable to many Venezuelans during the good times of the 1970's became offensive when millions of ordinary citizens were struggling to get by. Devastating riots in 1989 and two military coup attempts in 1992 reflected popular discontent, amplified by the demagoguery of ambitious populist politicians like former President Rafael Caldera Rodriguez.
In the competitive international economy of the 1990's, continued economic reform remains Venezuela's only realistic option. With official corruption now under deserved judicial scrutiny, responsible politicians will have a chance to make the case for more equitably borne sacrifices for the sake of future prosperity.
Washington's most important obligation is to honor the democratic process now unfolding. Both the interim President, to be chosen by the Venezuelan Congress in the coming weeks, and his or her successor, to be popularly elected later this year, will need all the external support they can get to rebuild democratic faith after the Perez debacle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); HAITI (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); HAITI (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ETHICS; EMBEZZLEMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUPS (91%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ, CARLOS ANDRES (PRES) CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ (94%); RAFAEL CALDERA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



594 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: A Shuffle of Warehouse Clubs

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The long-anticipated shakeout in the warehouse club industry has begun.
The Kmart Corporation announced yesterday that it would close three of its Pace Membership Warehouse stores and sell 14 others to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which operates a competing chain called Sam's Club. 
 "They are the first one to blink," said Monroe H. Greenstein, an equity analyst at Lazard Freres & Company.
He said the sale and store closings were likely to be the first of many. "There's been overexpansion in the industry over the last several years, and a lot of clubs are simply now competing with each other," he said.
The warehouse industry has been hurt by slowing sales and disappointing earnings of late, and none have fared worse than Pace, which had a 92 percent drop in operating earnings last year. Many major players, seeing fierce competition in the United States, have started expanding into Canada and Mexico.
 
A Rush to Major Markets
 The five key players in the industry have rushed over the last decade to establish themselves in major markets, where only two competitors can realistically survive, said Peter J. Siris, a retail analyst at UBS Securities.
"What happens then? They get more aggressive on price, which means no one is making any money," he said. "Category killers like Toys "R" Us and Office Depot and grocery stores are giving them increasing competition, too."
Of the Pace clubs being sold, four are in Dallas, three in Kansas City, Mo.; five in Chicago, and one each in St. Louis and in Toledo, Ohio. Of the clubs to be closed, one is in St. Louis and two are in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
Mr. Siris said Wal-Mart was essentially strengthening market dominance with the purchase of the 14 stores, while Pace was basically leaving areas where competition was intense.
 
A Sale, Not a Purchase
 Although analysts had been predicting consolidation in the industry, the sale of the Pace stores came as something of a surprise. They had been betting that Kmart would acquire the Price Company, which founded the warehouse club business in the mid-1970's and is the most productive of the major clubs.
Price and other chains have been battered by cannibalization -- which occurs when new stores take away the customer base of older ones in the same chain. Price also has a heavy concentration of stores in economically embattled Southern California.
Analysts had also expected Kmart, whose other specialty and discount stores generate strong cash flow, to wait out any consolidation that would rock the warehouse club industry.
 
Peace With Wal-Mart
 But Kmart, based in Troy, Mich., recently reported an 80 percent drop in first-quarter earnings and apparently decided it did not want to sustain underperforming stores through a potentially brutal battle. So it made peace with the company best poised to clean up in a consolidation, Wal-Mart, of Bentonville, Ark., which is the largest player in the $34 billion warehouse club industry with more than 250 clubs producing $12.3 billion in sales.
Shares of Kmart declined 37.5 cents yesterday, to $22.875, while Wal-Mart's stock was down $1.125, to $27.375, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Tom Grimm, chief executive of Pace, said the sale and closings were part of a realignment of Kmart's warehouse club business. Mr. Grimm, founder of the Price Savers Wholesale clubs that Kmart acquired in 1990 and turned into Pace stores, is himself part of that repositioning.
 
'Back to Basicscij'
 He took over the chain earlier this year, promising to bring the company "back to basics" by refocusing its attention on the small-business customers that make up the most lucrative segment of a warehouse club's business.
Analysts have criticized Pace for focusing too heavily on attracting individual customers instead of small businesses. Business customers buy in larger quantities per transaction than do individual shoppers, and the warehouse club business must turn over its inventory rapidly because profit margins are so slim.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 24, 1993, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday with an article about warehouse shopping clubs included incorrect entries for two companies in the column labeled "average sales per store." The entry for BJ's Wholesale Club should have been $48 million; the figure for Sam's Club was not available.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of a Pace Membership Warehouse. (Happel & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (54%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (87%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: KMART CORP; PACE MEMBERSHIP WAREHOUSE INC; WAL-MART STORES INC; SAM'S CLUB (WAREHOUSE STORES) WAL-MART STORES INC (94%); KMART CORP (93%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (72%); SAM'S CLUB (72%); TOYS 'R' US INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP; PACE MEMBERSHIP WAREHOUSE INC; WAL-MART STORES INC; SAM'S CLUB (WAREHOUSE STORES)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (87%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); DALLAS, TX, USA (87%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WAREHOUSES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; DISCOUNT SELLING; SALES ; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (67%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1993



595 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 1993,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Coast to Coast, Workers Say Fickle Economy Is a Riddle

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., May 20

 BODY:
The sun poked through the clouds, vanished, then gave way to rain as Floyd Rucker and Vivian Kizer stepped inside a gleaming downtown shopping mall here, where they did more looking than buying. They have talked about buying a new house and having a baby. But the nation's economy, fickle as the spring sky in Missouri, has put their plans on hold.
"I think about the low interest rates, and figure maybe it's time to buy something," said Mr. Rucker, a 29-year-old veterinarian's assistant. "But then I think about a friend of mine. He's got a new baby, a big house payment, two car payments. And he just got laid off. He doesn't know what he's going to do." 
 "I don't plan on losing my job," he said, "but neither did he."
 
Many Remain Uncertain
 Although the nation's recession has long since been declared over, and some parts of the country have shown signs of a recovery, many Americans say they remain uncertain about the economy, fearful about their jobs and wary of making large purchases.
Like the principal of a school in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., where more and more unemployed fathers are showing up to volunteer their time, or a commercial real estate broker in Philadelphia who is facing a glut of empty office space, many workers across the country say they are not convinced that life will get easier any time soon.
The wariness of Mr. Rucker and Ms. Kizer, 28, a preschool teacher, who might otherwise now be buying house furnishings and baby clothes, illustrates the chicken-or-egg conundrum of the nation's sluggish economy: consumers wait for economic recovery, which waits for consumers.
 
Working Hard to Stay Even
 "A lot of things I always took for granted -- having a big family, owning a house -- it just doesn't seem realistic anymore," said Mr. Rucker, who recently saw his annual 5 percent raise cut to 3 percent because of a slack in business. "It seems like you've got to break your back just to stay even."
Here in the middle of America, which saw neither the extreme boom of the 1980's nor the sharp real estate slump of the early 1990's and where the recovery has been noticeable, people tend to take the long view of things, and most are not sanguine.
Anxious as they are for an economic recovery, Midwesterners say they believe the days of real job security have gone forever.
 
Everybody Is Wondering
 "All businesses are reorganizing, trying to get more efficient," said Mike Hutchinson, 36, the manager of a copy-machine store in Des Moines. "And everybody is kind of wondering, Where am I going to fit in?"
Like other regions in the United States, the Midwest has been hardest hit by layoffs in automobile and defense-related companies.
Diana Alvarez, 46, whose annual household income is nearly $80,000, said she cannot relax for more than two weeks at a time. Her husband, Dennis, works for Boeing in Wichita, Kan., and the company is laying off 6,000 people this year. The pink slips are delivered with the paychecks.
"Every two weeks on payday, my husband opens it up to see if there's anything pink inside," said Ms. Alvarez, a nurse. "So far he's come home every time to say, 'No pink slip today.' But we can't be sure about next payday. So you just live day to day."
With two children in college and elderly parents who need financial help, Ms. Alvarez said she shudders to think about the future if her husband loses his job. "I don't know how we'll survive," she said.
But retailers in the Crown City mall here in Kansas City say business has picked up in the last four or five months.
"When more people are buying flowers," said Del Draper, a florist who has been working overtime, "you know people are feeling better."
Unemployment is relatively low in Kansas City -- about 5.5 percent -- but the statistics do not say much about the kinds of jobs available.
David Gardine, a 40-year-old clerk in a housewares store here, said he could survive on his $7-an-hour wage as long as he stayed healthy. Like millions of working-class Americans, he has no health insurance. "You just lay low and try to take care of yourself," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Looking for the Recovery" shows annual unemployment, seasonally adjusted, 1988-1992. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (91%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER
BEHAVIOR; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); VOLUNTEERS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); PHOTOCOPIERS (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (57%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; RUCKER, FLOYD; KIZER, VIVIAN

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1993



596 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 1993,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: May 23, 1993

 BODY:

 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 1	44	JURASSIC PARK, by Michael Crichton(Ballantine, $5.99.) A biotechnician clones dinosaurs for use in a theme park.	 	 	 	 2	14	THE PELICAN BRIEF, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $6.99.) A woman law student probes the murder of two Supreme Court justices.	 	 	 	 3	3	SHADOWFIRES, by Dean Koontz. (Berkley, $6.99.) A woman is stalked by her supposedly deceased husband.	 	 	 	 4	69	THE FIRM, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) A young lawyer learns that his firm is engaged in secret, possibly illegal activities.	 	 	 	 5	4	JEWELS, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $6.99.) The life of a woman who becomes rich by dealing in precious stones.	 	 	 	 6	4	WAITING TO EXHALE, by Terry McMillan. (Pocket, $5.99.) The friendships and romances of four black women in Phoenix.	 	 	 	 7	5	"I" IS FOR INNOCENT, by Sue Grafton. (Fawcett, $5.99.) Kinsey Millhone investigates a man once charged with murdering his rich wife.	 	 	 	 8	58	A TIME TO KILL, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, $5.99.) Racial tensions surface during the trial of a man charged with murder in rural Mississippi.	 	 	 	 9	5	THE WITCHING HOUR, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $6.99.) A woman descended from witches brings a drowned man back to life.	 	 	 	10	4	SWEET LIAR, by Jude Deveraux. (Pocket, $5.99.) In New York, a Kentucky woman copes with a mystery dating back to the Roaring Twenties.	 	 	 	11	2	FATHERLAND, by Robert Harris. (Harper Paperbacks, $6.50.) A thriller set in the Third Reich 20 years after Hitler wins World War II.	 	 	 	12	1	DARKEST HOUR, by V. C. Andrews. (Pocket, $5.99.) The concluding volume in a series about the Cutlers, a Virginia plantation-owning family.	 	 	 	13	4	FRENCH SILK, by Sandra Brown. (Warner, $5.99.) The ordeal of a New Orleans woman suspected of killing a television evangelist.	 	 	 	14	10	ON THE PULSE OF MORNING, by Maya Angelou. (Random House, $5.) The poem read at President Clinton's inauguration.	 	 	 	15	21	RISING SUN, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A woman's death leads to an investigation involving the American-Japanese rivalry.	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	NonFiction	 	 	 	 1	4	THE SILENT PASSAGE, by Gail Sheehy. (Pocket, $5.50.) The psychological and social significance of menopause for today's women.	 	 	 	 2	3	NOT FOR SALE AT ANY PRICE, by Ross Perot. (Hyperion, $5.95.) The Texas billionaire discusses the economic and political problems Americans face today.	 	 	 	 3	84	A YEAR IN PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Vintage, $10.) A sojourn in the south of France, as described by a British writer.	 	 	 	 4 *	1	TRUMAN, by David McCullough. (Touchstone/ S&S, $15.) A biography of the 33d President.	 	 	 	 5	498	THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone/S&S, $10.95.) Psychological and spiritual inspiration by a psychiatrist. (LP)	 	 	 	 6	14	I KNOW WHY THE CAGED BIRD SINGS, by Maya Angelou. (Bantam, $4.99.) The poet's account of her childhood and adolescence.	 	 	 	 7 *	105	YOU JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $10.) The different languages men and women speak and how the sexes can understand each other better.	 	 	 	 8	2	WHERE THE BLUEBIRD SINGS TO THE LEMONADE SPRINGS, by Wallace Stegner. (Penguin, $11.) Essays celebrating the American West and criticizing the illusions it has fostered.	 	 	 	 9	14	WOMEN ON TOP, by Nancy Friday. (Pocket, $5.99.) The changes in social life during the past two decades that have affected the sexual fantasies of women.	 	 	 	10	19	REVOLUTION FROM WITHIN, by Gloria Steinem. (Little, Brown, $11.95.) The reflections of a leading feminist on the struggle to achieve self-esteem.	 	 	 		Weeks	 	This	On	 	Week	List	Advice, How-To and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 1	7	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK: Volume Two, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) More tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 2	3	TEACHING YOUR CHILDREN VALUES, by Linda Eyre and Richard Eyre. (Fireside/S&S, $11.) Advice for parents of children from age 2 to the teen-age years.	 	 	 	 3	93	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $5.95.) Some 500 tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 4	118	THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE, by Stephen R. Covey. (Fireside/S&S, $9.95.) Principles to practice in the pursuit of success.	 	 	 	 5	135	THE T-FACTOR FAT GRAM COUNTER, by Jamie Pope-Cordle and Martin Katahn. (Norton, $2.99.) How to reduce fat in one's diet.	
 
These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 38,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
*An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
LP indicates that a book is available in large print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WOMEN (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1993



597 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 1993,

SECTION: Section 6; Page 67; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN;
IN PRAISE OF PUBLIC PLACES

BYLINE: By Julie V. Iovine

 BODY:

FORT PECK DAM
Public works don't have to be as oppressively dull as they sound. Take dams. These monoliths that stud our rivers are strictly utilitarian, yet the best of them still manage to pack a visual wallop. Last year, 730,000 people trekked out to Nevada to see Hoover Dam. Margaret Bourke-White's 1936 photo of Fort Peck Dam in Montana (above) adorned the first cover of Life magazine, capturing in its ragged symmetry the pure drama of Art Deco design. F.D.R. was so impressed with the potential magnificence and employment opportunities of dams that he made building them the key to his recovery plan out west. By its completion in 1938, Fort Peck Dam had put more than 10,000 men to work and opened up navigable waterways all the way to Kansas City. Now that's infrastructure.
Infrastructure is not a word that comes trippingly off the tongue, and yet many invoke it as part of the solution to what ails us. In recent history, infrastructure has been associated with low-quality, low-cost design. Which is a shame, really. Because the courthouses, train stations, highways and bridges that we encounter each day have the potential to uplift us with their grandeur. 
 Architects have long been drawn to the design of utilitarian structures as a way to realize the ideal of pure line wedded to powerful function. At their best, public places can celebrate community by giving it a unique and recognizable shape. They can also elevate the individual through a kind of pride of ownership.
The projects shown here, smaller in scale than any dam, but with just as much impact, display the inspirational power unleashed when Government lends itself unstintingly to good design.
 
RED ROCKS AMPHITHEATER
Red Rocks Amphitheater, outside of Denver, typifies the best of the Works Project Administration. With an extremely simple design enhanced by the breathtaking majesty of the Rockies, the amphitheater has been in constant use since its opening in 1941.
It was constructed by 120 young men from the Civilian Conservation Corps, which Roosevelt envisioned as a kind of youth squad, rechanneling the energy of unemployed men, 18 to 25, into outdoor construction projects: planting trees, stocking fish and building wildlife shelters. By the time the Corps was disbanded on the eve of World War II, it had developed close to 3,000 parks.
Wedged between spurs of 300-million-year-old red sandstone, Red Rocks is a dramatic departure from most parkland design, which often tends to be rustic, even quaint. Here, instead of logs, a vast sculpture of rock -- sublime in its pure form -- arrests the eye at the point where the Rocky Mountains meet the plains.
Red Rocks was designed by the architect Burnham Hoyt, who also worked on Radio City Music Hall. Its inspiration came from the amphitheaters of ancient Greece, and it indeed belongs among the world's man-made wonders.
 
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
Walt Whitman called it "that noblest of Washington buildings," and it's easy to see why. The National Portrait Gallery, originally the United States Patent Office, contains in its gaudy and grand architecture all the flamboyant aspirations of a young democracy intent on impressing the world. Begun in 1837, it was then the largest office building in Washington. The public grumbled at first, unaccustomed to Government spending on such a monumental scale. However, President Andrew Jackson, who commissioned it, remained stalwart in his determination to establish "a temple of the useful arts" to showcase not only patents (such was the importance of invention in its role of defining the newly centralized democracy), but the material wealth and resourcefulness of America, through displays of historical documents, artworks and geological specimens.
It was a good time to celebrate the promise of America. The mid-1830's was the first time since the Revolution that there was no national debt. By the time Whitman tended to the wounded sent there (for lack of space elsewhere) from the battles of Antietam and Fredericksburg, the Patent Office was a recognized landmark in the capital; in 1865, Abraham Lincoln chose its grand hall as the setting for his second inaugural ball.
The chief architect of record was Robert Mills, who also designed the Washington Monument. His high-style Greek Revival exterior is somewhat at odds with the Victorian Renaissance Great Hall, which dates to a restoration following an 1877 fire. The detailing throughout is extravagant even for those days, including a 20-foot stained-glass skylight, tessellated marble floors, reproduction Gothic tiles, brass railings and gilded fixtures. Today, after surviving the removal of a grand stair on its south portico to make way for a street widening, and its near razing in the 1950's for a parking garage, the United States Patent Office has been transformed into the National Portrait Gallery, with an exuberant permanent collection of some 14,000 American art objects.
 
LOOP 360
With L.B.J. in the White House, Lady Bird Johnson claimed conservation and the environment as her special sphere of influence. Despite its awkward-sounding name, her "beautification" project ("Plant a Tree, Plant a Shrub!") had a lasting impact, and today, our highways, like Loop 360 outside Austin, Texas, are in full flower.
It started with the volunteer Committee for a More Beautiful Capital and ultimately led to some 278 environmental measures, including the addition of one million acres of national parkland and the institution of the National Wild Rivers System and the National System of Trails. Lady Bird's particular fascination with wildflowers (in Texas, wildflower seeding programs for public roads have been in place since 1929) resulted in the 1987 Wildflower Act, which insures that 25 cents out of every $100 going to federally funded highways must be allocated to planting native wildflowers. Today, virtually every state has its own seeding program as well.
 
HAMILTONM FISH PARK
By 1900, civic pride mingled with social concern drove most public construction. The 1893 Columbian Exhibition in Chicago awed attendees with its Beaux-Arts architecture. At the same time, people were increasingly aware of immigrants living in urban degradation. The City Beautiful Movement sprung from these two forces. It placed its faith in the rejuvenative power of aesthetics. A new gym on the Lower East Side, for example, was supposed to reduce neighborhood crime by dint of its lavish design, based on the Petit Palais in Paris. And despite complaints that it was too ornate for the locals, they loved it. In 1936, pools were added, and last summer, after a 1992 restoration, Hamilton Fish Park attracted 65,000 kids.
 
JAMES LEE COURT
During the past 12 years, Federal money for public housing was cut by 75 percent. What did get built, according to Thomas Fisher, executive editor of Progressive Architecture, was neither particularly innovative nor inspired, but rather middle-class homes stripped of all amenities. James Lee Court, which opened last year in Oakland, Calif., is different. A result of a coalition of homeless people, architects, developers, social workers and church leaders who banded together to apply for $4 million in funds, it is both socially innovative and architecturally delightful.
It houses not only 104 people, many of them formerly homeless, but provides social services as well. The architect Michael Pyatok designed it to be small, with 26 units arranged in four stories around an open courtyard and a large public stoop. Families live on the ground or second floor with direct access to the courtyard in order to minimize children's use (and abuse) of elevators. Singles and older people are on upper floors with their own balconies or a roof deck. Appropriately, the leaping frogs on tiles over the entrance recall the African-American symbol for good fortune.
When the project was ready to open last fall, hundreds of Oakland's homeless population applied for the 20 available units. If emulation is the best measure of a role model, then James Lee Court is indeed successful; two more are already under way in Oakland.

GRAPHIC: Photos of designs (Photographs by David Maisel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (91%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION (WPA) RADIO CITY ENTERTAINMENT (50%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION (WPA) NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FORT PECK DAM (MONTANA); RED ROCK AMPHITHEATER (COLORADO) ; AUSTIN (TEX); HAMILTON FISH PARK (NYC) UNITED STATES (93%); MONTANA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (91%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; DESIGN; PUBLIC BUILDINGS; NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (WASHINGTON, DC); FLOWERS AND PLANTS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC ; HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; JAMES LEE COURT (OAKLAND, CALIF) PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); CLASSICS (67%); WORLD WAR II (61%); EMPLOYMENT (56%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (51%); 

PERSON: IOVINE, JULIE V; JOHNSON, LADY BIRD HAMILTON FISH III (59%); JAMES LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1993



598 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 1993,

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 2; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2079 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
What's a Network TV Censor to Do?

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
"Exceptional care must be exercised when showing the 14-year-old being threatened."
"Discretion should be used governing the costuming of the woman in the bikini."
"Lose (expletive), (expletive), (expletive.)" 
 In an austere office high above midtown Manhattan, Rosalyn Weinman, the head of broadcast standards and practices at NBC, is reviewing reports from the field like those above. The reports, filed on blue paper and thus known as "blue sheets," are filled with exhortations, warnings and the occasional strongly worded command. They represent the best judgments of Ms. Weinman's staff about what NBC's audience should and should not be subjected to while watching the tube.
They also represent censorship's last stand against the prurient pleasures of American television.
It is nearly four decades since the heyday of broadcast standards, when a swollen Lucille Ball could not use the word "pregnant" on the air and the networks were ruled by such strict propriety that whole realms of human experience were simply considered off limits.
Much has changed, in society and on the air. The afternoon talk shows -- which are syndicated to local stations, bypassing the networks -- specialize in dissecting the most intimate sexual behavior. Local news programs, especially in larger cities, are in constant, headlong competition to find the most titillating "special reports." The upstart network Fox changed the definition of acceptable broadcast material with sex-saturated shows like "Married . . . With Children." And all the networks know they are continually losing viewers to cable channels, which offer a smorgasbord of nudity and profanity. (MTV, for example, has gone so far as to title one of its new series "Beavis and Butt-Head.")
All this puts the network standards and practices people in a lonely position: not only do the producers of entertainment shows want to push the envelope, as they always have, but the networks themselves -- the censors' own employers -- are tempted to present ever-greater amounts of naughty bits. The challenge is to slow the viewers' shift to cable without scaring off mainstream advertisers or tarnishing what's left of the networks' luster.
Just in the last few months, the networks have moved farther into once-forbidden territory. They have shown a sitcom episode celebrating masturbation (NBC's "Seinfeld"), a splash of female frontal nudity (on ABC's "Civil Wars") and a spoof of Madonna on a visit to her gynecologist (Fox's "Edge").
But perhaps the clearest sign of change at the networks came two weeks ago, when ABC took a deep breath and penciled onto its fall schedule Steven Bochco's new series, "N.Y.P.D. Blue," which chronicles the adventures -- professional and sexual -- of a New York City detective. The show, a kind of "Hill Street Blues" made more explicit for the 90's, is so raunchy that the network is considering whether to begin each episode with a parental advisory.
What's a censor to do? At standards and practices departments, which enforce the networks' fast-changing and sketchily defined rules, negotiating the shifting terrain between profitability and protocol is harder than ever. In recent interviews, the chief censors at ABC, CBS and NBC seemed to resent both the suggestion that they have relaxed their guard in response to economic pressure and the suggestion that they still sometimes act like prudes. And even as television taboos dwindle, there remain topics -- including oral sex, gay sex and abortion -- that put the censors on a collision course with producers.
" 'N.Y.P.D. Blue' has taken an extra year to get on the schedule precisely because of standards and practices difficulties," said David Milch, an executive producer of the show. "It is as inherently an adversarial process as there is."
 
The Mandate
Subjective Rules, Selectively Enforced
 Since the days when Mary Tyler Moore and Dick Van Dyke were forced to sleep in chaste twin beds, network censorship departments have been cut roughly in half, from about 60 employees to 30. One of the only reasons the departments still exist at all is that viewers, despite their taste for the lurid, continue to expect greater discretion from network television.
"Like it or not, we're held to a double standard," said Beth Bressan, head of broadcast standards and practices at CBS.
Just what this standard is, though, is an open question. For a process as inherently bureaucratic as censorship, there are surprisingly few written guidelines about what constitutes acceptable network fare. The networks' formal rules on topics like sex, profanity and nudity are worded only in the most general terms and take up just a few pages.
"It's like that Supreme Court decision on obscenity," said Christine Hikawa, head of standards and practices at ABC. "I can't describe it, but I know it when I see it."
Like graduates of a New Age sensitivity seminar, the censors of the 1990's speak about their role in soothing terms. They refer to themselves as "editors" or "facilitators" and describe their jobs mainly as running interference between producers on the one hand and affiliates and advertisers on the other.
"We look a lot to the views of our affiliates," said Ms. Bressan of CBS. "We look to our audience mail, our daily ratings, what the critics are saying, what the advertisers are saying."
Complaints from these groups get results. After advertisers groused about the incessant sexual innuendo of CBS's "Hearts Afire," for example, the producers were persuaded a few months ago to stage a wedding for the two main characters. Such a shotgun wedding probably would not have occurred if not for the show's early airtime -- 8:30 P.M. Later shows are allowed more leeway, because their audiences tend to be older. Established shows get away with more than new shows, and so do shows that attract more sophisticated, urban audiences.
As network data on audiences has grown increasingly precise, standards for shows have become increasingly customized. Probably there is no better example of this than "Seinfeld." In one recent episode, the star, Jerry Seinfeld, forgets the name of his date, who reminds him that it rhymes with a female body part.
"Mulva?" he guesses. "Dolores?"
In another episode, the main characters stage a contest over who can refrain the longest from masturbation, though the word itself is never used. ("Are you still master of your domain?" is the code phrase used.) Several advertisers dropped out of this episode, but because of the show's high ratings they were quickly replaced.
Ms. Weinman described the decision to air the episode as "a tough call." Ultimately, she assented because the "Seinfeld" audience has proved that it does not take offense easily. "Internally, there was discussion," she said. "It was a little bit questionable. There were people who said, 'You're taking a huge risk.' "
Even Larry David, the executive producer of "Seinfeld," admitted that he is surprised by the latitude the show has been allowed. "I have to say they have given us a lot of freedom," he said. "They see that we handle things tastefully," he went on, adding after a pause, "for the most part."
 
The Language
Bochco's Crusade For an R Rating
 "In the old days, you used to put in three 'bastards' to get one," recalled Dick Wolf, executive producer of NBC's "Law and Order." "You don't have to do that anymore. Unless you're really loading it on, they'll cut you some slack."
Language is one of the most obvious ways network standards have changed in recent years -- and are continuing to change. While four-letter words remain taboo, most others aren't. Roseanne, for example, tells her sitcom husband that his hockey playing "sucks." "Bastard" pops up much more frequently, as does "bitch."
Still, there are plenty of ways to alarm the networks with a few well-chosen words. Indeed, problems with potentially offensive language helped delay "N.Y.P.D. Blue" for almost a year.
When Mr. Bochco first outlined the police drama a year and a half ago, he said he wanted to do prime-time's first "R-rated" show, complete with nudity and lots of expletives. What ensued were protracted negotiations with ABC over virtually every aspect of the series. "There were endless trips to New York," said Mr. Milch, the show's executive producer. "This thing fell apart 10 different times."
Eventually, Mr. Milch said, Mr. Bochco and ABC agreed on a highly detailed -- and highly unusual -- treaty governing every foreseeable area of conflict. The agreement specifies what profanity can be used, Mr. Milch said, "and how many there would be in aggregate each episode." It outlines how much flesh can be shown and from what angle.
Although the agreement does not allow Mr. Bochco to say everything he wanted to, "we can say more than anybody thought we could," Mr. Milch said. As far as network television goes, he added, "This is a show that couldn't even have been done last year."
In announcing the new show, ABC offered a glimpse of just how far "N.Y.P.D. Blue" will go when it previewed scenes from the show for advertisers and reporters. Some of the scenes were so hot they provoked a surprised titter from the audience. In one, a man and a topless woman rolled around a bed, shifting position only at the precise moment the woman's breasts were about to come into clear view. In another, a woman stripped to her underwear and faced the camera. Words were used that cannot be printed in a family newspaper.
Introducing the scenes, Ted Harbert, the head of ABC's entertainment division, acknowledged the show's risque nature and pleaded with advertisers to "reserve any judgment." Although network officials would not talk about specifics of the show, Ms. Hikawa, head of the network's standards and practices department, allowed that there would be "a lot more street language" in it. "We're going to try to give him a lot of room," she said, referring to Mr. Bochco.
 
The Sex Scenes
When 2 Girls Kiss, The Alarm Goes Off
 Today, it is hard to find a form, style or configuration of sex that has not been explored on network television. But a few remain. Any actions that suggest oral sex, for example, are forbidden, and even verbal allusions are unlikely to make it on the air. "You cannot refer to oral sex in any way," said Marshall Herskovitz, a creator of "Thirtysomething," who learned this too late when such a mention was cut from an episode of the series.
In shows that contain explicit sex, network censors often scrutinize not just scripts but actual footage. The producers may be told to film the scene from different angles so the censors will have several shots from which to choose. Long shots might be all right, but not closeups.
The results of this sort of negotiation could be seen last month on an episode of CBS's "Picket Fences" touching on another topic guaranteed to provoke network anxiety: gay sex. In the episode, Kimberly, a teen-ager, and her best friend are discussing boys' kisses and decide to try one with each other. The scene was shot from several different angles; after long negotiations, the producers and CBS agreed to show the scene in semi-darkness. The show's creator, David E. Kelley, said he was satisfied with the episode but expressed frustration at the process, saying the network censors were acting as middlemen for affiliates and advertisers.
Mr. Wolf blames fear of advertiser reaction for some of the difficulty he had with an episode of "Law and Order" dealing with abortion. In the episode, an anti-abortion activist blows up an abortion clinic and then goes on trial.
"Virtually every word was looked at," Mr. Wolf said. For every anti-abortion remark the suspect made in the show, there had to be a pro-abortion rights statement so the show would appear completely neutral. The network was "terrified" that the show would provoke a controversy, he said, and the episode has never been re-aired.
Although network censors insist they would not prohibit a show from dealing with a particular topic simply because of advertisers' qualms, they acknowledge that keeping advertisers happy is a primary concern. This, they say, is in everyone's best interests, including the producers'. "We view our job as trying to help the producers," Ms. Weinman says. "That may sound disingenuous, but we're really trying to help them do what everyone wants to do: attract the most, offend the least."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On "Seinfeld," George (Jason Alexander) visits his mother (Estelle Harris) in a hospital. The episode's topic -- masturbation -- made censors nervous. (Carin Baer/Castle Rock Entertainment)(pg. 1); Four Shows That Gave Ulcers to the Censors: "Married . . . With Children" -- When the Bundys arrived on the Fox network in 1987, critics were shocked at the family's viciousness and the show's obsession with sex. But viewers rewarded "Married" with big ratings, and it's still on. (Fox TV); "L.A. Law" -- NBC allowed C. J. and Abby to kiss, but C. J. disappeared at season's end. (NBC); "The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour" -- Ran into trouble in the late 1960's for its left-wing politics. CBS canceled it. (CBS); "Maude" -- In a mid-70's CBS episode, Maude (Bea Arthur) had an abortion, outraging many. (CBS); "N.Y.P.D. Blue" -- Dennis Franz, left, and David Caruso in one of ABC's new fall shows -- Sex and profanity in profusion. (Timothy White/ABC)(pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC); CBS INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (ABC); CBS INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; CENSORSHIP; TELEVISION PROGRAMS BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); CENSORSHIP (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); MASTURBATION (65%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH MADONNA (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1993



599 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 1993,

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: LETTER TO THE EDITOR;
Familiar Rhetoric Of Gun Control

 BODY:
I thank you for another anti-gun article ("The Battle Over Gun Control Moves to Hartford," April 11) replete with the raisin-brained rhetoric that we all know and love. I must admit, however, there has at least been some subtle changes made to the standard fare.
One of my all time "assault rifle" favorites, "no legitimate sporting purpose," has become "no legitimate civilian purpose." I suppose that means that target shooting has become a legitimate sporting purpose, but only if you are in the military. Mr. Jepsen fortunately has managed to retain the intent of the original and has even added to it. My only question is, if you are a "nobody" who shoots competitively or for recreaton, does that mean that you are not a citizen or that the gun is not an "assault weapon"? 
 The phrase "popular with gangs and drug dealers" hasn't changed much and neither have the crime statistics from the F.B.I. (less than 1 percent of all serious crime involves rifles both "assault" and "non-assault"). If New Jersey is any indication of the future in Connecticut, then gangs and drug dealers have nothing to fear. In fact, they might be able to pick up a few bargains.
I would also like to thank Ms. Leighton for pointing out that the framers of the Constitution intended an unarmed citizenry. After all, if it is illegal for a citizen to own a gun, then only the two biggest bullies, lawmakers and lawbreakers, will have them.
Though it might gratify those who detest guns to know that a gun ban may prevent people who obey the law from owning the proscribed firearms, few would suggest that such laws would return our cities to prosperity and safety.
While the Government's anti-drug laws have created a multibillion-dollar industry for itself ($13 billion Federal dollars at last count), for lawyers (both prosecution and defense), and for drug dealers (limit supply and increase the price), our cities have become war zones as battles rage over drug deals and turf.
Does anyone remember Al Capone and Prohibition? Is it any wonder the kind of role models this society creates?
While thousands remain unemployed or underemployed, our tax laws help to make it unprofitable to operate light industry in our cities and "Made in Connecticut" is replaced with "Made in China."
I suppose that if we can not ban the decline of our cities, we might just as well disarm the citizen.
 
GARY J. FOX
Salem
 
 The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters for publication should include the writer's name, address and telephone number. Letters should be addressed to The Editor, Connecticut Weekly, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. We regret that because of the large volume of mail received we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL GUN CONTROL (93%); FIREARMS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); CRIME STATISTICS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); DRUG POLICY (72%); STATISTICS (67%); TAX LAW (64%); WRITERS (60%); GANGS (56%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: FOX, GARY J

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1993



600 of 851 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 1993,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Building Amenities;
Testing New Routes to the Tenant's Heart

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
TO induce an outburst of lamentation from the executive bosom in Manhattan, ask where the great private dining clubs of the finer office buildings have gone.
The Pinnacle Club is no more in the Mobil Building. The Cloud Club has evaporated at the Chrysler Building. The Board Room, at 280 Park Avenue, closed last year. Downtown, the Wall Street Club at One Chase Manhattan Plaza has folded. 
 The Rockefeller Center tenant is in fair shape. For $850 a year the executive can join the Rockefeller Center Club and lunch in style on the 65th floor in space that becomes the Rainbow Room at night. At 101 Park Avenue, at East 41st Street, the executive can join Club 101 for $1,000 a year. And the collection of dining rooms on the 49th floor of Equitable Center at Seventh Avenue and 51st Street are available to tenants though the rooms are not operated as a club.
But now comes Continental Insurance, the property and casualty insurer, with a $6.5 million overhaul of large spaces within its 10-year-old headquarters building, Continental Center. The green-glass, octagonal tower is at 180 Maiden Lane, at the edge of the South Street Seaport. Continental has redone its lobby, added a fitness center, stuck in exhibition and performance spaces and opened a redesigned employee cafeteria to employees of other tenants.
It has also rebuilt its sanctum sanctorum on the 41st floor and opened it as a club for the lunching pleasure of the executives of the building. The Continental Club is expensively appointed in a quiet gray-green way, with a large dining room seating 85 plus 12 private dining rooms with East River views and tables for 4 to 20. It opened in February.
Membership in the club is limited to 400, or 12 per floor, and the annual fee for building tenants is a low $250 a person.
"This is a big step," said Bernard H. Mendik, chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York and a major office-building owner. He said he knew of no other case in which an owner was offering a private dining club for tenants as a building amenity. The usual fee at dining clubs in Manhattan is closer to $1,000 a person a year, and tenants are not likely to get discounts.
All this is part of a campaign to "reposition the asset," says Edgar A. Lampert, president of the Georgetown Company, a development company and asset manager that conceived and executed the plan for Continental. Talk of repositioning often quickens when an important tenant leaves. Last year Nomura Securities defected from Continental Center to the World Financial Center at Battery Park City. Nomura had five floors with 150,000 square feet in the million-square-foot building.
Other owners have also emphasized amenties packages as a way of attracting tenants in a soft market. A common theme seems to be to offer hotel-like services. There are new message centers. There are concierges in the lobby. There are new conference centers. There is a heightened emphasis on security services, if that can be called an amenity.
The institutional owner-occupants with grand private facilities that they can begin to share with other tenants in their building are in a particularly favorable position to supply dining services. Before Continental came along, for example, there was Chase Manhattan Bank, repositioning itself at the 1.3-million-square-foot One Chase Plaza.
The 60th floor of Chase Plaza used to be reserved for Chase executives exclusively. Now, with Chase's occupancy down to about half the building but stabilizing there, tenants can reserve tables on a per-meal basis. Chase itself operates the facility. "There wasn't much we had to do to it," said Gordon Lorig , a Chase vice president.
NOT so at Continental Center. The Georgetown Company as asset manager brought in the architectural firm of Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates and its interior-design affiliate, KPF Interior Architects. Kevin Kennon was the lead designer.
The task involved more than the club. As the lobby was originally built, a grand stairway between two escalators led to the main elevator bank at the mezzanine level. The stairway was removed, opening up the lobby to vista-like views, and new stairways were built inconspicuously to the side of the escalators. Also new to the lobby are more plantings and seating areas, a performance area with a stage and video screen and a photography exhibition area run by the International Center of Photography.
In the performance area, musicians from the Juilliard School give luncheon concerts twice a week and there are video programs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Television and Radio and the American Museum of the Moving Image.
Storage space below the lobby level was converted into a 9,000-square-foot fitness center, open to all workers in the building.
As for the new 20,000-square-foot club on the 41st floor, it cost $1 million to build and $400,000 more to outfit and it already has its maximum of 400 members, though half of them are from Continental Insurance itself. If the club grows popular with new tenants, Continental will cut its membership, said Mr. Lampert of the Georgetown Group. Nontenants may some day be allowed club membership, he said, but not at the subsidized rate paid by tenants.
The operator of the club is Joseph Baum & Michael Whiteman Company, which also services the Rainbow Room. The firm will not only serve its little-cream, little-butter contemporary American food to patrons at the club, but will also deliver it on fine-china place settings with silver cutlery to executives at their desks. Main courses are priced at $12.50 to $18.50 and there is an $18.75 buffet.
AN economic analysis by the Georgetown Group indicates that the building's new amenities ought to provide a typical tenant with a benefit worth $3.83 a square foot a year.
The calculation is based on the needs of a typical full-floor tenant and is made up of a combination of factors: the saving on dining and fitness costs to the extent that they are subsidized by the owner; the lessened need for rented dining areas and the greater convenience of having these facilties within the building. Convenience leads to more efficient use of time and a productivity gain, Georgetown says.
And the hope is that it will help Georgetown lease out the 130,000 square feet remaining in the space Nomura gave up. Continental Center's tenants are primarily large space users. The law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Feron has five floors, and Asarco Inc. has four. Asarco renewed its lease on 110,000 square feet for 10 years two months ago.
The Georgetown Company, whose chairman is Marshall Rose, also handled the reconstruction of Madison Square Garden for Paramount Communications Inc. There the concept was to provide sky boxes and premium seats for added income from business people.
"It was a question of how the business class wants to be entertained," said Mr. Lampert.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The lobby at the Continental Insurance building at 180 Maiden Lane, rebuilt as part of a $6.5-million improvement program. The 10-year-old octagonal structure rises above South Street Seaport, at right. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL INSURANCE FINANCIAL CENTER BANK NA (50%); FINANCIAL CENTER CREDIT UNION (50%); FINANCIAL CENTER CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL INSURANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INSURANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1993

 
