

1 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Faults Credit Raters, but Doesn't Name Them

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- An examination of credit ratings agencies by the Securities and Exchange Commission found repeated instances of the companies failing to follow their own procedures or to manage conflicts of interest adequately, according to an S.E.C. staff report issued Friday.
The examinations were mandated in the Dodd-Frank regulatory law passed last year after numerous investigations into the causes of the financial crisis. Several of those inquiries found that the agencies had issued inaccurate reports, failed to report or manage conflicts of interest and appeared to put generating revenue ahead of rigorous financial analysis. 
For the investing public, however, the S.E.C.'s report is likely to be of limited value because the commission did not name the agencies at which it found deficiencies. Instead, it described its findings as having occurred either at one or more of the three large agencies -- Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings -- or at one or more of the seven smaller ratings firms. The report also found that all three of the large agencies and four of the small ones had weak controls or inadequate policies for ownership of securities by employees.
The S.E.C. also said the procedures at one of the large ratings agencies ''appeared to allow for limited dissemination of a pending rating action in some instances prior to public dissemination.''
Changes in credit ratings have the potential to affect not only the prices a company's bonds bring but its stock price as well. And sometimes the overall market is affected. The S.E.C. has begun an inquiry into whether news of Standard & Poor's pending downgrade of United States government debt was leaked, and the information traded upon, before it was officially announced in August.
''The takeaway for both individual investors and institutions is to always have a skeptical eye when looking at ratings agencies,'' Katherine Addleman, a partner at Haynes and Boone, a Dallas law firm.
The findings have not resulted in any enforcement actions by the agency, but staff members could refer some or all of the findings to the enforcement division for further investigation. Ms. Addleman said the report was typical of those issued after the S.E.C. conducts a sweep of brokerage firms to check on compliance with regulations. After those inquiries, it often outlines areas where firms should bring themselves into compliance or risk enforcement action.
Inflated credit ratings were the subject of several investigations into the causes of the financial crisis. A report by the Senate permanent subcommittee on investigations issued in April noted that more than 90 percent of the highest, or AAA, ratings given to mortgage-backed securities in 2006 and 2007 ''were later downgraded to junk status, defaulted or withdrawn,'' causing huge investor losses.
In a conference call with reporters, members of the commission staff said neither the Dodd-Frank statute nor the commission's own regulations forbade the disclosure of the names of the companies whose procedures had been found deficient. Carlo V. di Florio, director of the office of compliance inspections and examinations, said, ''We made a decision internally that it was most effective'' not to name the companies.
''We didn't name names because we are separately following up'' the findings with each agency, Mr. di Florio said.
The commission's report said each of the three larger ratings agencies ''has made changes to improve its operations'' since the last periodic examination in 2007-8. But the report also noted that all 10 agencies ''failed to follow their ratings procedures in some instances.''
The report specifically said that the failure of one of the largest ratings firms to follow its own procedures had resulted in ratings of asset-backed securities that were inconsistent with its publicly disclosed standards. ''The staff is concerned about the extent to which market share and business considerations may have contributed'' to the failure, the report said.
Mr. di Florio declined to name the company. A footnote in the report said that the agency itself had reported its analysis error as the S.E.C. staff was conducting its examination, which covered the period Dec. 1, 2009, through Aug. 1, 2010.
In August 2010, the S.E.C. released a separate report on an investigation of Moody's, which found that the company had made false statements in its registration as a ratings agency with the S.E.C. and had failed to follow its procedures for determining credit ratings.
Anthony Mirenda, a Moody's spokesman, declined to comment on the specific findings in the report. ''Moody's welcomes the S.E.C.'s constructive recommendations to our industry,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



2 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Hippies and Hipsters Exhale

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Ever since the Arab Spring, many people here have been pining for an American Autumn.
The closest we've gotten so far is Occupy Wall Street.
For two weeks, a ''leaderless resistance movement'' of a couple hundred people (depending on whom you ask) have camped out and sat-in at a tiny park in Lower Manhattan to protest greed and corruption, among other things. The protests were first called for in July by the magazine Adbusters, which calls itself ''a global network of culture jammers and creatives.''
As New York Magazine reported the day before the protest began, protesters would first be meeting at Bowling Green Park for a program that included yoga, a pillow fight, and face-painting. The N.Y.P.D. thwarted those plans. 
Still, it feels like a festival of frustrations, a collective venting session with little edge or urgency, highlighting just how far away downtown Manhattan is from Damascus -- the hyper-aggressiveness of the police not withstanding.
It has, though, attracted institutional agitators such as Michael Moore and Cornel West, both who seem to ache for an uprising to fit the narratives of their personal discontent.
While it lacks the clarity and size -- at least so far -- of other protests we've seen in this country, let alone in other countries, it does highlight a growing sense of disillusionment among Americans and the failures and ineffectiveness they feel from the current government in addressing their concerns.
In fact, a series of Gallup polls released this week found record-high dissatisfaction with government, including these findings:
81 percent of Americans said they were dissatisfied with the way the country is being governed.
Confidence in Congress reached a new low last month.
Americans' confidence in the people who run for or serve in office is also at a new low.
The 15 percent of Americans approving of Congress in the September poll is just 2 percentage points above the all-time low recorded twice in the past year.
At 43 percent, fewer Americans today than at any time in the past four decades said they have a great deal or fair amount of trust in the federal government to handle domestic problems.
Americans' sense that the federal government poses an immediate threat to individuals' rights and freedoms is also at a new high.
Americans are more than twice as likely to say President Obama and the current Congress are doing a poor job as a good job of dealing with the nation's most important problems. Most even believe that they're doing worse than their predecessors.
But even with high levels of unhappiness and star power involved, there is something about Occupy Wall Street that feels like a spark set down on wet grass: It's just hard to see how it truly catches fire. (Some of the city's largest labor unions and liberal groups are expected to join the protest next week. Maybe that will help.)
This has less to do with what began as a mission -- after all, it's hard to argue with the idea of fighting greed and corruption -- than with the fact that it has nowhere to go.
While many Americans are feeling the pain from this financial crisis and our leaders' at-times-wrongheaded-at-other-times-heartless attempts to deal with it, many of the most adversely affected have yet to find a way to funnel their pain into political passion. Many still don't seem to see the fight the way that many activists frame it: as a zero-sum game of taxation or belt-tightening between the haves and have-nots.
In fact, a poll released on Thursday by the Pew Research Center found no clear consensus about whether the country is even divided into haves and have-nots. Furthermore, a third of those at the bottom of the income spectrum -- those making $30,000 a year or less -- see themselves as among the haves.
Also, a New York Times/CBS News poll released two weeks ago found that a third of those who make $30,000 a year or less don't believe that the government should raise taxes on the wealthy to lower the budget deficit.
Although the protest is framed as a partyless movement, New York Magazine said in its preview that one of the organizers essentially said that Occupy Wall Street was meant as a ''rebuke of 'neoliberal economics,' and a youth-driven lefty answer to the Tea Party.''
But the Tea Party has a specific political agenda. This protest does not. The Tea Party did a great job of channeling anger into electoral outcomes and shifting electoral sentiment.
A Gallup poll released on Friday found that, for the first time in at least a decade, starting in 2010 more people believed that Republicans would do a better job than Democrats at keeping the country prosperous.
And, since 2010, more people have believed that Republicans would do a better job than Democrats at handling the problems they think are most important to them, reversing Democratic dominance on the question since 2004.
What political outcome does this protest seek? It would be a waste for them to push back only against corporate enemies and put forward no political heroes. That may further dampen already flagging enthusiasm on the left.
Another Gallup poll released this week found that Democratic enthusiasm for voting in the 2012 election relative to Republican enthusiasm was at its lowest level in a decade. Republicans had a 27 percentage point advantage.
And, last spring, a study by researchers at Baylor and Notre Dame in the Journal of Happiness Studies found that unhappy people are less likely to vote than contented ones.
Occupy Wall Street may be the beginning of something, or it may just fizzle as a September-October oddity. But there can be little doubt that there is a disaffected constituency that desperately wants something to rally around. People are impatiently awaiting their clarion call, a call they have given up on hearing from Washington.
We'll have to see if plans that included a pillow fight turn into a political fight.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Decade of Distrust: Very dissatisfied with the way things are going in the United States at this time
Have not very much trust and confidence/none at all in our federal government in Washington when it comes to handling domestic problems
 Have not very much trust and confidence in general/none at all in men and women in political life in this country who either hold or are running for public office (Source: Gallup) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); YOGA (69%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



3 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: A Man Who Can Stray From His Party's Line

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Ask Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey whether his weight is a political asset or an election-year liability, and he shrugs.
''It depends on the day,'' Mr. Christie said earlier this year, noting that his struggles with weight control could add to his ''everyman'' appeal or be a voter turnoff. ''Some days it may be an asset and some days it may be a liability.''
That may be the best way to describe everything about Mr. Christie as he considers the entreaties of donors and prominent Republicans who are urging him to make a late entry into an unsettled field of candidates vying for the Republican presidential nomination.
Those close to Mr. Christie say he is taking those entreaties very seriously despite his earlier insistence that he was not ready to be president. At one point this year, he joked that he would have to commit suicide to end the rumors of a 2012 candidacy. 
But his very public resistance has given way to an urgent reconsideration, and his top advisers say the governor is well aware that he must make a decision, probably within days, about whether to mount a bid for the White House.
Mr. Christie, 49, a first-term governor whose paucity of government experience may be just what the doctor ordered, is a jumble of political contradictions. He's a conservative with some liberal views, a New Jersey politician who can bully but also frequently talks about compromise, and an obviously reluctant candidate who clearly hears the call of the national stage.
''If Christie is the superpolitician his encouragers present, he should have the nomination locked up by mid-February,'' said Jim Dyke, an unaligned Republican strategist. But he said Mr. Christie's record would ''offer insights, contradictions and surprises -- all of which will sustain or destroy him depending on how he handles them.''
In two years as governor, he has succeeded in capping property taxes, rolling back pension benefits and balancing the state budget. But unemployment remains high in New Jersey, and his battles with the teachers' union have become legend.
Questions remain about his viability as a national candidate. Mr. Christie has often strayed far from his party's orthodoxy. In a speech last week, he praised the Bowles-Simpson plan to lower the nation's debt in part with increased tax revenues from closing loopholes -- a path opposed by many in his party.
He is on record acknowledging the ''undeniable'' science behind the idea that climate change is caused by human behavior, saying global warming is ''real and it is impacting our state.'' On gun control, Mr. Christie is out of step with Second Amendment supporters who view with suspicion any laws that restrict access to firearms.
When Jon S. Corzine, the former Democratic governor of New Jersey, accused him in 2009 of standing with the National Rifle Association, Mr. Christie's campaign noted his support of the federal assault weapons ban. ''Hardly the N.R.A. position,'' his literature said.
The most problematic issue may be his stand on illegal immigration.
In 2008, as a federal prosecutor, Mr. Christie spoke what could be considered blasphemy among conservatives: ''Being in this country without proper documentation is not a crime,'' he said. ''The whole phrase of 'illegal immigrant' connotes that the person, by just being here, is committing a crime.''
He has said repeatedly that leaders should not ''demagogue'' the issue of immigration, and he did not explicitly support tough state laws like the one put in place in Arizona last year. And when Tea Party conservatives were up in arms about plans to build an Islamic center near ground zero, he accused them of overreacting.
Mr. Christie's less conservative positions may help him capture independents in a general election against President Obama. And his blunt, straightforward style might contrast well with the president's well-known coolness.
In an era when people say they are tired of slick, preprogrammed politicians who faithfully repeat a focus-group-tested message, the New Jersey governor is anything but.
When Hurricane Irene was bearing down on his state's coastline, he bellowed ''get the hell off the beach!'' He waved off criticism of his use of a state helicopter to go to his son's baseball game as ''silliness'' (though he later reimbursed the state for its use). His vocabulary as governor regularly includes the words ''stupid,'' ''crap'' and ''insane.''
He is the anti-Mitt Romney; unprogrammed and unscripted. And with Mr. Romney now appearing to be the one to beat in the Republican primaries, there may be no better time for an alternative like Mr. Christie.
''Polls show people are really frustrated with Washington right now,'' said Scott Reed, who managed Senator Bob Dole's presidential campaign in 1996. ''A little straight talk will go a long way.''
But Mr. Christie's willingness to say anything could also hurt him in a presidential campaign in which mistakes, gaffes and flubs are hardly ever forgiven, as both Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas have learned.
For many people around the country, the image they have seen of a combative and feisty Mr. Christie is of him at a town-hall-style meeting, speaking bluntly to a teacher who stood up to accuse him of criticizing the profession. ''If what you want to do is put on a show and giggle every time I talk, well then I have no interest in answering your question,'' Mr. Christie said.
In another exchange captured on video, a woman asked why Mr. Christie sends his children to private schools.
''First off, it's none of your business,'' the clearly irritated governor answered. ''I don't ask you where you send your kids to school. Don't bother me about where I send mine.''
But will such moments still seem like a breath of fresh air if they happen repeatedly on the campaign trail? One senior Republican strategist who is backing a current candidate suggested that voters might get tired of Mr. Christie's combative routine.
''If you take the confrontational style all day, every day, I don't know how that wears,'' said the strategist, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized by the campaign to speak about Mr. Christie.
People close to the New Jersey governor say his political range is wider than that. And in one popular video, it is.
Responding to a popular Internet video of a 4-year-old boy crying because he wants to be governor of New Jersey, a jovial Mr. Christie signed a proclamation in April making the child governor for a day.
If he were to run, Mr. Christie would have to quickly deal with his past reluctance to get in the race. And logistically, he would start off way behind.
In the past, Mr. Christie has insisted that he is not ready to serve in the White House. ''You have to believe, as I've said before, in your heart and in your mind that you are ready,'' he said in an interview in February. ''And I don't believe that I am.''
That answer has the obvious benefit of making him seem more honest than the average politician. But once he is a candidate, he would have to find a way to answer the inevitable question about how he suddenly changed his mind.
Mr. Christie will also immediately face the challenge of raising money. The excitement among some very wealthy donors suggests that that might not be too difficult. But running for president requires a large fund-raising organization, and he would start millions of dollars behind rivals.
Right away, Mr. Christie would face the challenge of his schedule. Every day that he spends on the phone with donors is a day he's not spending in Iowa, New Hampshire or South Carolina -- places that contenders have been visiting regularly for weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie spoke at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library on Tuesday, but did not lay to rest the talk of his candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Where Christie Stands: The governor has taken positions on both sides of traditional party lines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); LIBERALISM (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SUICIDE (67%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); BUDGETS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); FIREARMS (60%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



4 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Challenging Dollar-Cost Averaging and Other Bad Ideas

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
SINCE mid-August, world markets have repeatedly moved with stomach-churning ups and downs. And in response, many investors feel they must take some action for fear that doing nothing will cost more than doing something.
The sheer magnitude of the world's problems -- high unemployment and legislative gridlock in the United States, debt problems in Europe, signs of a slowdown in China -- makes this a scary time for investors.
But what about the urge to take some sort of action? As I have written before, the better strategy is almost always to focus on a long-term plan and not abandon it the moment it gets tested. After the last three years, this is tougher to do than ever.
''It's very hard to do nothing when everybody is trying to talk you into doing something, even when it's wrong,'' said Susan Fulton, founder and president of FBB Capital Partners. 
Michael Martin, a trader and the author of the new book ''The Inner Voice of Trading'' (FT Press), put it a different way. The big risk for average investors now is confusing volatility with opportunity.
He said professional traders become more wary when prices are changing rapidly for no fundamental reason. And he equated the market, with its wild swings, to a drunken uncle at a holiday dinner. ''When someone's behavior becomes more volatile, you don't want to warm up to that person,'' he said. ''You want to get away.''
But ignoring those swings can be difficult. Below are some bad ideas as well as some slightly contrarian thoughts that may offer comfort.
BAD IDEAS Fear causes investors to do all sorts of things that could hurt them in the long run.
The recent drop in gold prices to about $1,600 an ounce from just under $1,900 in August has damped down some of the enthusiasm for gold. But the gyrations in stocks have led some investors to think that they can find something there that will soar as gold did.
''People want to swing for the fences,'' Ms. Fulton said. ''We're not going to have stocks that multiply by 10 in the near future.''
She said she advised clients to look instead at companies that had a lot of cash and were paying steady dividends. There is a predictability to those stocks that will help battered portfolios.
A variation on the stock-picking strategy involves using tax losses accumulated over the years to bet heavily on a risky company. The hope is that any gains will get an investor back to even and also be tax-free.
The problem is that unless the investor picks the next Google, his losses could be substantial. And even if he's lucky enough to pick a stock that appreciates greatly, it could be years before he sells the stocks and is able to use the tax losses to offset the gains.
''You should use your tax losses on things that can benefit you today,'' said Lewis Altfest, chief investment officer of Altfest Personal Wealth Management.
Mr. Altfest said a client recently wanted him to put money into some risky stocks because he was down so much. Instead of agreeing, Mr. Altfest suggested the client reallocate his portfolio back to 65 percent stocks and 35 percent bonds and then go back to that allocation whenever the stock position dropped below 63 percent.
''He's got a human problem now -- he's behind,'' Mr. Altfest said. ''I could explain to him that this is the worst recession we've had in 80 years. It might help him intellectually, but he hurts, and he wants an answer.''
CONSOLING THOUGHTS One of the great comforts to average investors in a volatile market is dollar-cost averaging. This is a fancy way of saying you should invest your money over a period of time as opposed to investing it all at once, which is known as lump-sum investing.
Proponents of dollar-cost averaging offer two arguments. By putting money into, say, a stock over time, you will be buying shares at varying prices, which will benefit you in the end. This seems particularly appealing when stock prices are rising and falling so much.
The second advantage is psychological: If you put all your money into an investment and it is worth 10 percent less the next day, you're going to feel horrible about it. Worse, you may also be less inclined to make further investments or pull your money out.
But new research from Gerstein Fisher, a money manager in New York, raises questions about that investing philosophy. It found that from January 1926 to December 2010, investing your money on one day yielded better results over a 20-year period than investing the same amount of money in equal chunks over 12 months.
In the 70 percent of the time that investing everything all at once did better, it did better by 94 percentage points. When dollar-cost averaging did better, it did so only by 77 percentage points. Over a 20-year period, lump-sum investing added about 2 percent to annual returns, the study found. This ratio continued to hold true over the past decade.
''The conclusion is the faster you invest the money, the better you do,'' said Gregg Fisher, president and chief investment officer of Gerstein Fisher. ''Dollar-cost averaging's greatest value is to get people comfortable investing. The rational investor would not do it because it doesn't make any sense, but we're not rational.''
Normally, most investors don't have large sums of money to invest at once. But right now, many are sitting on large cash positions. Mr. Fisher did note that the person who put money in slowly was still better off than the person who tried to guess the direction of the market.
Another bit of consolation is that government bonds may be better bets than many advisers have been saying. In August, I wrote that advisers were telling clients that yields on Treasury bonds could not go any lower. The fear then was that investors were locking in low yields and that any bit of good news would cause yields to rise and create losses for the investors. But that has not happened.
But Bob Andres, chief investment officer and strategist at Merion Wealth Partners, said investors had been too optimistic. There are few signs that the global economy is getting any better.
''If you're at 2.5 percent on a 10-year Treasury or lower, people have a tendency to say they can't go any lower,'' Mr. Andres said. ''That's a mistake. That's underestimating the problems the global economy has. Do I think we can go back down to 1.5? Yes, I do.''
However depressing his analysis, it has some merit. At the beginning of the year, the yield on the 10-year Treasury was 3.36 percent, which did not seem like such a great return then. But last week, when the yield on the same bond hit a low of 1.72 percent, it looked a lot better.
So while inflation would still be bad for bond returns, there is enough bleak news coming from the United States and Europe to make a rush out of Treasury bonds premature.
''Not losing money is much more important than making money in this environment,'' Mr. Andres said. ''Intuitive feel is a dangerous thing in a market like this.''
Under pressure, the best advice may be to stay the course.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lewis Altfest, chief investment officer of Altfest Personal Wealth Management, advises using your tax losses on things that can benefit you today. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MARKETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WRITERS (70%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



5 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Occupiers, Protesting Till Whenever

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD and CARA BUCKLEY; Natasha Lennard and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A man named Hero was here. So was Germ. There was the waitress from the dim sum restaurant in Evanston, Ill. And the liquor store worker. The Google consultant. The circus performer. The Brooklyn nanny.
The hodgepodge Lower Manhattan encampment known as Occupy Wall Street has no appointed leaders, no expiration date for its rabble-rousing stay and still-evolving goals and demands. Yet its two weeks of noisy occupation has lured a sturdily faithful and fervent constituency willing to express discontentment with what they feel is an inequitable financial system until, well, whenever.
They arrived by design and desire. Or by sheer serendipity.
Like Jillian Aydelott, 19, and Ben Mason, 20. They are a couple, both having taken an indefinite leave from school in Boston to travel across the country, very much on the cheap. Stopping in Providence, R.I., five days ago to sleep at a homeless shelter, they encountered a man who called himself Germ and said he was an activist. He was coming to the protest. They figured why not. They have yet to leave. 
Ms. Aydelott's feeling was: ''Nothing is happening. People on Wall Street have all the power.''
The stalwarts seem to range from a relatively modest 100 to 300 people, though the ranks swelled to more than 2,000 on Friday as the protest began to attract mainstream attention from those disaffected with the weak economy and to enlist support from well-known liberals.
The actress Susan Sarandon stopped by, as did the Princeton professor Cornel West and former Gov. David A. Paterson of New York. A widely reported episode last Saturday, when four protesters were pepper-sprayed by a police commander, elevated the visibility of the demonstrators.
On Friday night, many marched to Police Headquarters to criticize what they described as the improper tactics that the police had used against their movement. (The police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, has defended the actions by the police, though he has said they will be reviewed.)
Nicholas Coniaris, 35, came to the makeshift village in Zuccotti Park near Wall Street on Friday and will be gone soon. He is from San Diego, a counselor who works with homeless veterans, and was squeezing in protesting while awaiting a wedding he was attending on Saturday. A friend from Japan, a fellow wedding guest, was here as well.
Having brought a tuxedo for the wedding, Mr. Coniaris decided to get extra mileage out of it. He wore it while he stationed himself in the center of the park clutching a coffee cup that said ''God Bless,'' and a sign that said, in part, ''Support the Rich.''
''Just a little something,'' he said mockingly to passers-by. ''Half a billion dollars. I'm not asking for a trillion.''
After a couple of hours, his cup contained $1.15.
It all began when a Canadian advocacy magazine, Adbusters, posted a call for action on its blog in July. A New York group naming itself the General Assembly, inspired by recent meetings in Madrid, began to hold organizing meetings in Tompkins Square and other public places, leading to a Sept. 17 march near Wall Street. Shooed away from Wall Street, the protesters wound up in Zuccotti Park, which is bounded by Broadway and Liberty Street and has become their base.
Most of the demonstrators are in their teens or 20s, but plenty are older. Many are students. Many are jobless. A few are well-worn anarchists. Others have put their normal lives on pause to try out protesting and see how it feels.
Not all of them can articulate exactly why they are here or what they want. Yet there is a conviction rippling through them that however the global economy works, it does not work for them.
''I'm angry because I don't have millions of dollars to give to my representative, so my voice is invalidated,'' said Amanda Clarke, 21, a student at the New School. ''And the fact that I'm graduating with tens of thousands of dollars in loans and there's no job market.''
Their politics zigzag wildly. An unemployed schoolteacher calls herself a fierce independent, while an employed teacher is a conservative. An anarchist photographer wants libertarianism to be reclaimed by the left.
''This is not about left versus right,'' said the photographer, Christopher Walsh, 25, from Bushwick, Brooklyn. ''It's about hierarchy versus autonomy.''
A finance worker walked around with a dollar bill duct-taped over his mouth and carrying a pizza box, on which he had written, ''I could lose my job 4 having a voice.'' Nikita Nikitovich, 44, a New York Pilates teacher, was working as one of the protest's media contacts. A 38-year-old bicycle messenger with a head shaved except for a long braid arrived early Friday by bus from New Orleans, and had been waiting for a protest to erupt since Hurricane Katrina. ''That's when we were shown the big picture,'' she said.
For all the bedraggled look of the mattress-and-sleeping-bag-strewn camp, it has a structure and routine. A food station occupies the center of the park, where donated meals are disbursed, especially pizza and Popeyes chicken. Sympathizers from other states have been calling local shops and pizza parlors and, using their credit cards, ordering food to be delivered to the park.
There are information stations, a recycling center, a media center where a gasoline generator powers computers. At the east end sits the library, labeled cardboard boxes brimming with donated books: nonfiction, fiction, poetry, legal. There is a lost and found.
A medical station was outfitted with bins holding a broad array of remedies: cough drops, Maalox Maximum Strength, Clorox wipes, bee pollen granules. The main issues have been blisters, including some from handcuffs, and abrasions.
There are also a few therapists. Some out-of-work protesters are depressed. They need someone's ear.
Elsewhere is a sanitation station, with designated sanitation workers who sweep the park. The park is without toilets, a problem that many of the protesters address by visiting a nearby McDonald's.
The encampment even has a post-office box, established at a U.P.S. store, and has been receiving a steady flow of supportive letters and packages. Someone from Texas sent a bunch of red bandanas, now draped on the necks of demonstrators. Others have sent camera batteries, granola bars and toothbrushes.
Two General Assembly meetings are held each day to conduct organizational business and work on objectives. ''We meet every day to decide what our demands are,'' said Hero Vincent, 21, an artist and singer from Charlotte, N.C., who has been here from the beginning.
Not allowed to use amplified sound, the protesters have devised their own means of communication. Each speaker says a sentence, and then everyone else repeats it, so it ripples outward. Decisions must be by consensus. Hand signals convey responses. For instance, holding your palms upward and wiggling your fingers means approval, while holding them downward means disapproval. Level hands mean uncertainty.
People are divided into committees, including town planning, child care, direct action and a de-escalation group charged with keeping things orderly. There have been a few arguments.
When will all this end?
One protester thought when the temperature fell below 50. Others were less sure.
Sid Gurung, 22, a student at the New School who enlisted because he said he was ''extremely disappointed and angry that I have no future,'' would agree to no timetable. ''Our task is important,'' he said. ''We could be here for months. Our opponents are giants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Wall Street protest was in its 14th day on Friday. Many demonstrators are jobless
a few are self-described anarchists. (A1)
 Demonstrators marched on Friday to Police Headquarters, upset over tactics used against protesters, including pepper-spraying. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); POLICE FORCES (68%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (68%); LIBERALISM (67%); VETERANS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



6 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING ECONOMY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: New Zealand Suffers Double Ratings Downgrade

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Standard & Poor's lowered New Zealand's credit rating one notch Friday, adding the country to a lengthening line of developed economies whose credit profiles have been undermined by high debt and the uncertain global economic outlook.
The downgrade followed a similar move by Fitch Ratings, which cut its rating for New Zealand on Thursday and also singled out the country's high foreign debt levels as a cause for concern. 
Despite the downgrades, New Zealand's local- and foreign-currency ratings remain near the top end of both agencies' scales. The country's financial system is sound, the agencies said, and New Zealand continues to enjoy plenty of monetary and fiscal flexibility. Its public debt, unlike that of many other developed economies, remains modest.
Debt levels in the household and agriculture sectors, by contrast, are high, while the country's aging population and dependence on commodity income pose challenges for the future.
New Zealand's high level of net external debt is ''an outlier'' among comparable developed nations, said Andrew Colquhoun, head of Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings at Fitch.
Still, the downgrade highlighted the way that the turmoil sweeping the globe -- prompted by worries over the slow pace of growth in the United States and doubts about the ability of several European countries to meet their debt obligations -- is affecting economies as far afield as New Zealand.
Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region have been dragged down, along with those in the rest of the world, as investors have pulled funds out of stocks.
The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong, for example, fell 2.3 percent Friday, bringing the decline for the quarter that ended Friday to nearly 22 percent.
Economic data from across the region have shown that economies are growing at a more subdued pace. The latest evidence came Friday in the shape of an index measuring manufacturing activity in China, which showed a reading of 49.9 for September -- the third successive month that the reading was below 50, which signals contraction.
In a report Sept. 21, Standard & Poor's noted that the weaker global backdrop, combined with generally high inflation, could slow the pace of upgrades for some Asia-Pacific sovereigns and could bring rating reductions for countries with weak balance sheets.
Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings have bucked the global trend so far this year with two upgrades (Indonesia and Fiji) and one downgrade (Japan). But several countries in the region now have higher debt burdens and weaker budget positions than they had in 2008, S.&P. said. It named the Cook Islands, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand and Vietnam as countries whose net general government debt levels had risen ''significantly'' in the past few years.
In Japan and New Zealand, reconstruction efforts after devastating earthquakes this year have added to government spending needs.
That was a factor in S.&P.'s decision Friday to downgrade New Zealand's long-term local-currency rating to AA+ from AAA, and its foreign-currency rating to AA from AA+. The revised ratings are below those that S.&P. has for Australia, but better than those for Japan. Similarly, Fitch now has New Zealand's local-currency rating at AA+ and its foreign-currency rating at AA.
Analysts broadly agree, however, that most emerging economies in Asia are relatively well positioned to weather the turmoil in the United States and Europe. Banks across the region have little direct exposure to the debt of Greece and other beleaguered European economies, while firm domestic demand is likely to help insulate the region's economies from any downturn in overseas demand for Asian-made goods.
Exports to the West are less important now than they were before the collapse of Lehman Brothers, Frederic Neumann, a regional economist for HSBC in Hong Kong, said in a research note Friday. ''Overall economic growth should hold up better even if shipments to the U.S. and the E.U. decline more sharply,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOVEREIGN RISK (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TRENDS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); AGING TRENDS (68%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); AGRICULTURE (53%); AGING (53%)

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (85%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ZEALAND (98%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); JAPAN (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (79%); COOK ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



7 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Gains Made In Equality Of Incomes In Downturn

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
The recession was bad for everyone, but women experienced at least one silver lining: Their median earnings edged a bit closer to men's.
The progress was bittersweet, however. It happened not because women earned more, but because men earned less, according to an analysis of new Census Bureau data.
Median earnings for men, adjusted for inflation, fell by $2,433 -- or 6 percent -- from 2007 to 2010, according to the analysis, by the American Human Development Project, a social research organization. Women's earnings, meanwhile, fell by just $253 in the same period, a drop of 0.9 percent. 
For men, it was another sad chapter in the painful tale of the recession, which officially ended in June 2009 and battered them more ferociously than it did women. For women, whose economic fortunes have been on a slow but steady rise relative to men's since the 1970s, it was a small, if unsatisfying, victory.
''The recession was devastating for men,'' said Kristen Lewis, co-director of the project, which is part of the New York-based Social Science Research Council. Women, on the other hand, ''have come through it with no significant change in their buying power,'' she said.
Some of the recession's steepest declines were in industries that tend to be dominated by men. Earnings in construction, for example, fell by 5 percent, the analysis found. Meanwhile, median earnings in health care and technical occupations, popular among women, increased by 3 percent.
Median earnings for men were also dragged down by workers who lost jobs or had their hours cut back. (The statistic included any worker ages 25 to 64 who had been working full or part time at any point in the years measured.)
''When you have unemployment go from 5 percent to 10 percent, people are going to have lower annual earnings because they are working less,'' said Betsey Stevenson, assistant professor of business and public policy at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
The construction industry shed a whopping 1.4 million male workers during the recession, the analysis found. On the other hand, the service sector, which includes some of the lowest-paying jobs, like waitress and housekeeper, added jobs for both men and women. Earnings in the sector declined by 6 percent for men, as they took lower-paying jobs, but stayed flat for women.
Women did not have as far to fall, said Sarah Burd-Sharps, who is co-director of the American Human Development Project with Ms. Lewis. Women are heavily represented at the bottom of the earnings ladder and have lower salaries than men across all occupations. A typical woman in the service sector earned $14,792 last year, compared with $21,104 for a typical man.
But the gap is shrinking. The high-paying fields of management, business and finance gained 376,000 women during the recession, while shedding 119,000 men, according to the study. Women's earnings in those occupations stayed flat, while men's salaries dropped 3 percent.
This year of budget cuts does not bode well for women, who are heavily represented in local government jobs, like teaching, Professor Stevenson said.
Even so, in recent months, there has been an uptick in women's earnings, she said. In early 2010, women's median weekly earnings were 79 cents for every dollar earned by men. By the second quarter of this year they were at 83 cents. That was all the more surprising because female unemployment, lower than men's through much of the recession, has now started to rise.
''What you see in these earnings is another step towards financial equality,'' Professor Stevenson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); WOMEN (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MEN (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); CENSUS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: LEWIS CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



8 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Yemenis Say They Have Bigger Problems Than Al Qaeda

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- On the streets of Sana, the nation's conflict-stricken capital, the news of the death of Anwar al-Awlaki, the Yemeni-American propagandist for Al Qaeda who inspired jihadists around the world, was largely overshadowed by the continuing domestic turmoil here.
Many Yemenis had not even heard that Mr. Awlaki had been killed, even by Friday night. And most had only a faint sense of why the United States considered him a highly significant target. If anything, Yemenis thought his death would only increase their woes. 
''I don't know why he was important, except that he was a terrorist,'' said Belal Masood, who works in a restaurant in Sana's old city. ''But maybe this will create a problem for us Yemenis, because when you strike Al Qaeda they normally strike back larger. Really, we wish they could have killed him in another country.''
Another man, Walid Seneb, who was sitting on a street curb with three friends on Friday night, said, ''We don't like these terrorists who make problems for us. Mr. Seneb was the only one of the four men who had heard of the cleric's death.
''But right now there are worse problems,'' he said. ''Our national crisis is the biggest problem. There is no water, electricity, everything from the government stopped.''
After eight months of antigovernment protests that began during the Arab spring, Yemen's government has been torn apart. The armed forces are divided between those loyal to President Ali Abdullah Saleh and those who follow a rebel military commander. Conflict between the two sides turned into urban warfare in Sana two weeks ago, with over 100 people being killed. With fears that a large-scale civil war may break out and a debilitating economic crisis , Yemenis are sufficiently absorbed with their own problems that they do not have much time or attention to devote to the death of a man who was most known for reaching out to the English-speaking world of Muslim extremists.
''Awlaki's life or death doesn't matter for Yemenis,'' said Nadwa al-Dawsari, who works for a nonprofit organization in Sana. ''It is not a priority for us. Not many Yemenis know who Awlaki was anyway. It doesn't matter how many Al Qaeda members are killed as long as the underlying causes that makes extremism thrive exist.''
But a major concern for some, especially among Yemenis in the opposition, is that the Saleh family provided information to the United States on Mr. Awlaki's whereabouts to gain political favor.
Although the Obama administration has been working diplomatically to find a way to ease Mr. Mr. Saleh from office, his family controls the security apparatus responsible for counterterrorism activities. They know that Mr. Awlaki's death was coveted by the United States, and they fear that it will somehow alter the administration's desire to have Mr. Saleh give up power.
''Now he is going to show the people he can kill al Qaeda,'' Nader al-Qershi, a youth organizer at Sana's large antigovernment demonstration, said of Mr. Saleh. ''That there is al Qaeda in Yemen, and who can kill them except Ali Abdullah Saleh?
''Why does Ali Abdullah Saleh kill him at this time? He has a lot of information about these people in Al Qaeda. The protesters at the university are happy about this action, but we just want to know why it happened at this time.''
It was widely assumed in Yemen that Mr. Saleh's government must have been aware of Mr. Awlaki's whereabouts long ago, but was reluctant to hand over that information to the Americans or kill Mr. Awlaki, because he is from a powerful tribe in southern Yemen that might seek retribution if he was killed.
Then why was Mr. Awlaki tracked down on Friday? Some Yeminis thought they knew. ''Saleh wanted to show the world that he is a hero against Al Qaeda,'' said Hussein Mohammed, who runs a small hotel in Sana's old city.
But Mr. Mohammed, like many people here, did not think that Mr. Awlaki's death would alter the political dynamic in their country. He said it was not al Qaeda, but the struggle among Yemen's political elites that poses the greatest risk to the country's future.
Tribesmen loyal to Mr. Saleh's main political rival, Hamid al-Ahmar, have engaged in almost daily street warfare with the government's security forces in a northern district of Sana over the past few weeks. The sound of artillery fire echoing through the capital has become commonplace.
''They struck Anwar al-Awlaki, why don't the Americans strike Ali Abdullah Saleh and Hamid al-Ahmar?'' Mr. Mohammed asked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); CIVIL WAR (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



9 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumer Spending Rises, but Incomes Fall

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Consumer spending in the United States rose 0.2 percent in August, but incomes fell for the first time in nearly two years, according to a government report on Friday. 
The Commerce Department said consumer spending tightened after rising 0.7 percent in July. Adjusted for inflation, real consumer spending was unchanged after rising 0.4 percent in July. The increase was in line with economists' expectations.
Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of American economic activity.
Weak incomes as employment growth ground to a halt hurt spending in August. Income slipped 0.1 percent, the first decline since October 2009, with private wages and salaries dropping $12.2 billion.
Economists had expected income to edge up 0.1 percent.
Consumer spending growth slowed sharply to a 0.7 percent annual pace in the second quarter after advancing 2.1 percent in the first three months of the year.
Last month, real spending on goods fell 0.2 percent, while services ticked up 0.1 percent. Disposable income was unchanged for the first time since September, but when adjusted for inflation fell 0.3 percent, the largest drop since October 2009.
With real disposable income weak, savings fell to an annual rate of $519.3 billion, the smallest since December 2009, from $550.5 billion in July. The savings rate dropped to 4.5 percent, also the lowest since December 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



10 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Another Look at the War in Libya

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''As Thousands Leave Libya, and Jobs, Niger Feels Impact'' (news article, Sept. 28): 
The case of Nigerois fleeing from Libya to economic hardship and potential humanitarian crisis in Niger is further evidence of the imprudence and myopic nature of the Libyan war.
Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, ruthless and erratic as he may be, achieved the continent's highest levels of progress in terms of education, health and wealth, according to last year's United Nations Human Development Report. It is no wonder that before the rebellion Libya therefore had 2.5 million African migrant workers seeking greener pastures.
All the more reason the African Union should have stood firmly by its resolution of March 10 calling for a political solution to the crisis, and not have its member states vote affirmatively for Security Council Resolution 1973, which authorized military action in Libya.
KWAME AKONOR South Orange, N.J., Sept. 29, 2011
The writer is an associate professor at Seton Hall University, where he teaches international relations and directs the Africana Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); AFRICAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) NIGER (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



11 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEMPERATURE RISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4131 words

HEADLINE: The Threats to a Crucial Canopy

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS

 BODY:
WISE RIVER, Mont. -- The trees spanning many of the mountainsides of western Montana glow an earthy red, like a broadleaf forest at the beginning of autumn.
But these trees are not supposed to turn red. They are evergreens, falling victim to beetles that used to be controlled in part by bitterly cold winters. As the climate warms, scientists say, that control is no longer happening.
Across millions of acres, the pines of the northern and central Rockies are dying, just one among many types of forests that are showing signs of distress these days.
From the mountainous Southwest deep into Texas, wildfires raced across parched landscapes this summer, burning millions more acres. In Colorado, at least 15 percent of that state's spectacular aspen forests have gone into decline because of a lack of water. 
The devastation extends worldwide. The great euphorbia trees of southern Africa are succumbing to heat and water stress. So are the Atlas cedars of northern Algeria. Fires fed by hot, dry weather are killing enormous stretches of Siberian forest. Eucalyptus trees are succumbing on a large scale to a heat blast in Australia, and the Amazon recently suffered two ''once a century'' droughts just five years apart, killing many large trees.
Experts are scrambling to understand the situation, and to predict how serious it may become.
Scientists say the future habitability of the Earth might well depend on the answer. For, while a majority of the world's people now live in cities, they depend more than ever on forests, in a way that few of them understand.
Scientists have figured out -- with the precise numbers deduced only recently -- that forests have been absorbing more than a quarter of the carbon dioxide that people are putting into the air by burning fossil fuels and other activities. It is an amount so large that trees are effectively absorbing the emissions from all the world's cars and trucks.
Without that disposal service, the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere would be rising faster. The gas traps heat from the sun, and human emissions are causing the planet to warm.
Yet the forests have only been able to restrain the increase, not halt it. And some scientists are increasingly worried that as the warming accelerates, trees themselves could become climate-change victims on a massive scale.
''At the same time that we're recognizing the potential great value of trees and forests in helping us deal with the excess carbon we're generating, we're starting to lose forests,'' said Thomas W. Swetnam, an expert on forest history at the University of Arizona.
While some of the forests that died recently are expected to grow back, scientists say others are not, because of climate change.
If forests were to die on a sufficient scale, they would not only stop absorbing carbon dioxide, they might also start to burn up or decay at such a rate that they would spew huge amounts of the gas back into the air -- as is already happening in some regions. That, in turn, could speed the warming of the planet, unlocking yet more carbon stored in once-cold places like the Arctic.
Scientists are not sure how likely this feedback loop is, and they are not eager to find out the hard way.
''It would be a very different world than the world we're in,'' said Christopher B. Field, an ecologist at the Carnegie Institution for Science.
It is clear that the point of no return has not been reached yet -- and it may never be. Despite the troubles of recent years, forests continue to take up a large amount of carbon, with some regions, including the Eastern United States, being especially important as global carbon absorbers.
''I think we have a situation where both the 'forces of growth' and the 'forces of death' are strengthening, and have been for some time,'' said Oliver L. Phillips, a prominent tropical forest researcher with the University of Leeds in England. ''The latter are more eye-catching, but the former have in fact been more important so far.''
Scientists acknowledge that their attempts to use computers to project the future of forests are still crude. Some of those forecasts warn that climate change could cause potentially widespread forest death in places like the Amazon, while others show forests remaining robust carbon sponges throughout the 21st century.
''We're not completely blind, but we're not in good shape,'' said William R. L. Anderegg, a researcher at Stanford University.
Many scientists say that ensuring the health of the world's forests requires slowing human emissions of greenhouse gases. Most nations committed to doing so in a global environmental treaty in 1992, yet two decades of negotiations have yielded scant progress.
In the near term, experts say, more modest steps could be taken to protect forests. One promising plan calls for wealthy countries to pay those in the tropics to halt the destruction of their immense forests for agriculture and logging.
But now even that plan is at risk, for lack of money. Other strategies, like thinning overgrown forests in the American West to make them more resistant to fire and insect damage, are also going begging in straitened times. With growing economic problems and a Congress skeptical of both climate science and new spending, chances for additional funding appear remote.
So, even as potential solutions to forest problems languish, signs of trouble build.
In the 1990s, many of the white spruce trees of Alaska's Kenai Peninsula were wiped out by beetles. For more than a decade, other beetle varieties have been destroying trees across millions of acres of western North America. Red-hued mountainsides have become a familiar sight in a half-dozen states, including Montana and Colorado, as well as British Columbia in Canada.
Researchers refer to events like these as forest die-offs, and they have begun to document what appears to be a rising pattern of them around the world. Only some have been directly linked to global warming by scientific studies; many have yet to be analyzed in detail. Yet it is clear that hotter weather, of the sort that science has long predicted as a consequence of human activity, is playing a large role.
Many scientists had hoped that serious forest damage would not set in before the middle of the 21st century, and that people would have time to get emissions of heat-trapping gases under control before then. Some of them have been shocked in recent years by what they are seeing.
''The amount of area burning now in Siberia is just startling -- individual years with 30 million acres burned,'' Dr. Swetnam said, describing an area the size of Pennsylvania. ''The big fires that are occurring in the American Southwest are extraordinary in terms of their severity, on time scales of thousands of years. If we were to continue at this rate through the century, you're looking at the loss of at least half the forest landscape of the Southwest.''
The Carbon Dioxide Mystery
In the 1950s, when a scientist named Charles David Keeling first obtained accurate measurements of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, a mystery presented itself. Only about half the carbon that people were releasing into the sky seemed to be staying there. It took scientists decades to figure out where the rest was going. The most comprehensive estimates on the role of forests were published only a few weeks ago by an international team of scientists.
As best researchers can tell, the oceans are taking up about a quarter of the carbon emissions arising from human activities. That is causing the sea to become more acidic and is expected to damage marine life over the long run, perhaps catastrophically. But the chemistry is at least somewhat predictable, and scientists are reasonably confident the oceans will continue absorbing carbon for many decades.
Trees are taking up a similar amount of carbon, but whether this will continue is much less certain, as the recent forest damage illustrates.
Carbon dioxide is an essential part of the cycle of life on Earth, but geologic history suggests that too much can cause the climate to warm sharply. With enough time, the chemical cycles operating on the planet have a tendency to bury excess carbon.
In the 19th century, humans discovered the usefulness of some forms of buried carbon -- coal, oil and natural gas -- as a source of energy, and have been perturbing the natural order ever since. About 10 billion tons of carbon are pouring into the atmosphere every year from the combustion of fossil fuels and the destruction of forests.
The concentration of the gas in the atmosphere has jumped 40 percent since the Industrial Revolution, and scientists fear it could double or even triple this century, with profound consequences.
While all types of plants absorb carbon dioxide, known as CO2, most of them return it to the atmosphere quickly because their vegetation decays, burns or is eaten. Every year, during the Northern Hemisphere growing season, plants and other organisms inhale some 120 billion tons of carbon from the atmosphere, then exhale nearly the same amount as they decay in the winter.
It is mainly trees that have the ability to lock carbon into long-term storage, and they do so by making wood or transferring carbon into the soil. The wood may stand for centuries inside a living tree, and it is slow to decay even when the tree dies.
But the carbon in wood is vulnerable to rapid release. If a forest burns down, for instance, much of the carbon stored in it will re-enter the atmosphere.
Destruction by fires and insects is a part of the natural history of forests, and in isolation, such events would be no cause for alarm. Indeed, despite the recent problems, the new estimate, published Aug. 19 in the journal Science, suggests that when emissions from the destruction of forests are subtracted from the carbon they absorb, they are, on balance, packing more than a billion tons of carbon into long-term storage every year.
One major reason is that forests, like other types of plants, appear to be responding to the rise of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by growing more vigorously. The gas is, after all, the main food supply for plants. Scientists have been surprised in recent years to learn that this factor is causing a growth spurt even in mature forests, a finding that overturned decades of ecological dogma.
Climate-change contrarians tend to focus on this ''fertilization effect,'' hailing it as a boon for forests and the food supply. ''The ongoing rise of the air's CO2 content is causing a great greening of the Earth,'' one advocate of this position, Craig D. Idso, said at a contrarian meeting in Washington in July.
Dr. Idso and others assert that this effect is likely to continue for the foreseeable future, ameliorating any negative impacts on plant growth from rising temperatures. More mainstream scientists, while stating that CO2 fertilization is real, are much less certain about the long-term effects, saying that the heat and water stress associated with climate change seem to be making forests vulnerable to insect attack, fires and many other problems.
''Forests take a century to grow to maturity,'' said Werner A. Kurz, a Canadian scientist who is a leading expert on forest carbon. ''It takes only a single extreme climate event, a single attack by insects, to interrupt that hundred-year uptake of carbon.''
It is possible the recent die-backs will prove transitory -- a coincidence, perhaps, that they all occurred at roughly the same time. The more troubling possibility, experts said, is that the die-offs might prove to be the leading edge of a more sweeping change.
''If this were happening in just a few places, it would be easier to deny and write off,'' said David A. Cleaves, senior adviser for the United States Forest Service. ''But it's not. It's happening all over the place. You've got to say, gee, what is the common element?''
Tracking an Ebb and Flow
So far, humanity has been lucky. While some forests are starting to release more carbon than they take up, that effect continues to be outweighed by forests that pack carbon away. Whether those healthy forests will predominate over coming decades, or will become sick themselves, is simply unclear.
The other day, deep in a healthy New England thicket of oaks, maples and hemlocks, two young men scrambled around on their hands and knees measuring twigs and sticks that had fallen from the trees.
''What was the diameter on that?'' asked Jakob Lindaas, a Harvard student holding a pencil and clipboard.
Leland K. Werden, a researcher at the university, called out a metric measurement, and they moved to the next twig. It was one of thousands they would eventually have to measure as part of an effort to tell how fast the wood, knocked off the trees in an ice storm in 2008, was decaying.
The debris they were cataloging would not have struck a hiker as anything to notice, much less measure, but the Harvard Forest, 3,000 acres near Petersham, Mass., is one of the world's most intensively studied patches of woods. The work the men were doing will become a small contribution toward solving one of the biggest accounting problems of modern science.
In every forest, carbon is constantly being absorbed as trees and other organisms grow, then released as they die or go dormant. These carbon fluxes, as they are called, vary through the day. They vary with seasons, with climate and weather extremes, with the health of the forests and with many other factors. Across the world, scientists are struggling to track and understand this ebb and flow.
A 100-foot tower stands in the middle of the Harvard Forest, studded with instruments. Put up in 1989, it was the first permanent tower of its kind in the world, built to help track the carbon fluxes. Now hundreds of them dot the planet.
Meticulous measurements over the decades have established that the Harvest Forest is gaining weight, roughly two tons per acre per year, on average. It is characteristic of a type of forest that is playing a big role in limiting the damage from human carbon emissions: a recovering forest.
Not so long ago, the land was not a forest at all. Close to where the men were working stood an old stone fence, a telltale sign of the land's history.
''When the European colonists came to America, they saw trees, and they wanted fields and pastures,'' explained J. William Munger, a Harvard research fellow who was supervising the measurements. So the colonists chopped down the original forest and built farmhouses, barns, paddocks and sturdy stone fences.
By the mid-19th century, the Erie Canal and the railroads had opened the interior of the country, and farmers plowing the thin, stony soils of New England could not compete with produce from the rich fields of the Midwest. So the old fields were abandoned, and trees have returned.
Today, the re-growing forests of the Eastern United States are among the most important carbon sponges in the world. In the Harvard Forest, the rate of carbon storage accelerated about a decade ago. As in much of the world, the temperature is warming there -- by an average of 2.3 degrees Fahrenheit in the last 40 years -- and that has led to longer growing seasons, benefiting this particular forest more than hurting it, at least so far.
''We're actually seeing that the leaves are falling off the trees later in the fall,'' Mr. Werden said.
Scientists say that something similar may be happening in other forests, particularly in cold northern regions that are warming rapidly. In some places, the higher temperatures could aid tree growth or cause forests to expand into zones previously occupied by grasslands or tundra, storing more carbon.
Forests are re-growing on abandoned agricultural land across vast reaches of Europe and Russia. China, trying to slow the advance of a desert, has planted nearly 100 million acres of trees, and those forests, too, are absorbing carbon.
But, as a strategy for managing carbon emissions, these recovering forests have one big limitation: the planet simply does not have room for many more of them. To expand them significantly would require taking more farmland out of production, an unlikely prospect in a world where food demand and prices are rising.
''We're basically running out of land,'' Dr. Kurz said.
Even in forests that are relatively healthy now, like those of New England, climate risks are coming into focus. For instance, invasive insects that used to be killed off by cold winters are expected to spread north more readily as the temperature warms, attacking trees.
The Harvard Forest has already been invaded by an insect called the woolly adelgid that kills hemlock trees, and managers there fear a large die-off in coming years.
Wildfires and Bugs
Stripping the bark of a tree with a hatchet, Diana L. Six, a University of Montana insect scientist, pointed out the telltale signs of infestation by pine beetles: channels drilled by the creatures as they chewed their way through the juicy part of the tree.
The tree she was pointing out was already dead. Its needles, which should have been deep green, displayed the sickly red that has become so commonplace in the mountainous West. Because the beetles had cut off the tree's nutrients, the chlorophyll that made the needles green was breaking down, leaving only reddish compounds.
Pine beetles are a natural part of the life cycle in Western forests, but this outbreak, under way for more than a decade in some areas, is by far the most extensive ever recorded. Scientists say winter temperatures used to fall to 40 degrees below zero in the mountains every few years, killing off many beetles. ''It just doesn't happen anymore,'' said a leading climate scientist from the University of Montana, Steven W. Running, who was surveying the scene with Dr. Six one recent day.
As the climate has warmed, various beetle species have marauded across the landscape, from Arizona to Alaska. The situation is worst in British Columbia, which has lost millions of trees across an area the size of Wisconsin.
The species Dr. Six was pointing out, the mountain pine beetle, has pushed farther north into Canada than ever recorded. The beetles have jumped the Rocky Mountains into Alberta, and fears are rising that they could spread across the continent as temperatures rise in coming decades. Standing on a mountain plateau south of Missoula, Dr. Six and Dr. Running pointed to the devastation the beetles had wrought in the forest around them, consisting of a high-elevation species called whitebark pine.
''We were going to try to do like an eight-year study up here. But within three years, all this has happened,'' Dr. Six said sadly.
''It's game over,'' Dr. Running said.
Later, flying in a small plane over the Montana wilderness, Dr. Running said beetles were not the only problem confronting the forests of the West.
Warmer temperatures are causing mountain snowpack, on which so much of the life in the region depends, to melt earlier in most years, he said. That is causing more severe water deficits in the summer, just as the higher temperatures cause trees to need extra water to survive. The whole landscape dries out, creating the conditions for intense fires. Even if the landscape does not burn, the trees become so stressed they are easy prey for beetles.
From the plane, Dr. Running pointed out huge scars where fires had destroyed stands of trees in recent years. ''Nothing can stop the wildfires when they get to this magnitude,'' he said. Some of the fire scars stood adjacent to stands of lodgepole pine destroyed by beetles.
At the moment, the most severe problems in the nation's forests are being seen in the Southwestern United States, in states like Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. The region has been so dry that huge, explosive fires consumed millions of acres of vegetation and thousands of homes and other buildings this summer.
This year's drought came against the background of an overall warming and drying of the Southwestern climate, which scientists say helps to explain the severe effects. But the role of climate change in causing the drought itself is unclear -- the more immediate cause is an intermittent weather pattern called La Nina, and research is still under way on whether that cycle is being altered or intensified by global warming, as some researchers suspect. Because of the continuing climatic change, experts say some areas that are burning this year may never return as forest -- they are more likely to grow back as heat-tolerant grass or shrub lands, storing far less carbon than the forests they replace.
''A lot of ecologists like me are starting to think all these agents, like insects and fires, are just the proximate cause, and the real culprit is water stress caused by climate change,'' said Robert L. Crabtree, head of a center studying the Yellowstone region. ''It doesn't really matter what kills the trees -- they're on their way out. The big question is, Are they going to regrow? If they don't, we could very well catastrophically lose our forests.''
Stalled Efforts
Scientists are coming to a sobering realization: There may be no such thing left on Earth as a natural forest.
However wild some of them may look, experts say, forests from the deepest Amazon to the remotest reaches of Siberia are now responding to human influences, including the rising level of carbon dioxide in the air, increasing heat and changing rainfall patterns. That raises the issue of what people can do to protect forests.
Some steps have already been taken in recent years, with millions of acres of public and private forest land being designated as conservation reserves, for instance. But other ideas are essentially stymied for lack of money.
Widespread areas of pine forest in the Western United States are a prime example. A scientific consensus has emerged that people mismanaged those particular forests over the past century, in part by suppressing the mild ground fires that used to clear out underbrush and limit tree density.
As a consequence, these overgrown forests have become tinderboxes that can be destroyed by high-intensity fires sweeping through the crowns. The government stance is that many forests throughout the West need to be thinned, and some environmental groups have come to agree.
But the small trees and brush that would be removed have a low commercial value, especially in a weak economy. With little money available to subsidize the thinning, the Forest Service is reduced to treating only small sections of forest that pose the biggest threat to life and property.
On an even larger scale, experts cite a lack of money as endangering a program to slow or halt the destruction of tropical forests at human hands.
Deforestation, usually to make way for agriculture, has been under way for decades, with Brazil and Indonesia being hotspots. The burning of tropical forests not only ends their ability to absorb carbon, it also produces an immediate flow of carbon back to the atmosphere, making it one of the leading sources of greenhouse gas emissions.
Rich countries agreed in principle in recent years to pay poorer countries large amounts of money if they would protect their forests.
The wealthy countries have pledged nearly $5 billion, enough to get the program started, but far more money was eventually supposed to become available. The idea was that the rich countries would create ways to charge their companies for emissions of carbon dioxide, and some of this money would flow abroad for forest preservation.
Climate legislation stalled in the United States amid opposition from lawmakers worried about the economic effects, and some European countries have also balked at sending money abroad. That means it is not clear the forest program will ever get rolling in a substantial way.
''Like any other scheme to improve the human condition, it's quite precarious because it is so grand in its ambitions,'' said William Boyd, a University of Colorado law professor working to salvage the plan.
The best hope for the program now is that California, which is intent on battling global warming, will allow industries to comply with its rules partly by financing efforts to slow tropical deforestation. The idea is that other states or countries would eventually follow suit.
Yet, scientists emphasize that in the end, programs meant to conserve forests -- or to render them more fire-resistant, as in the Western United States, or to plant new ones, as in China -- are only partial measures. To ensure that forests are preserved for future generations, they say, society needs to limit the fossil-fuel burning that is altering the climate of the world.
Temperature Rising: Articles in this series are focusing on the central arguments in the climate debate and examining the evidence for global warming and its consequences.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Montana forest under attack by mountain pine beetles. Red trees died recently, others probably several years ago. (A1)
Clockwise from top: Diana L. Six, an insect expert at the University of Montana who had planned an eight-year study before mountain pine beetles advanced the timetable
an interior view of beetle damage
an enlargement of a beetle on wing
and bark from a damaged whitebark pine. (A12)
Above, fire damage adjacent to beetle damage
below, measuring decay in Harvard Forest in Massachusetts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) GRAPHICS: Changing Forests: The world's 9.9 billion acres of forest absorb roughly a quarter of human emissions of carbon dioxide, and help limit the increase of the gas in the atmosphere. While many healthy forests are robustly absorbing carbon, others are threatened by a warming climate. (A12)
Forests of Carbon: Forests absorb carbon dioxide and store the carbon in wood and soil. When they are destroyed their carbon can enter the atmosphere and help to accelerate climate change. (Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N.
Global Carbon Project)
GRAPHICS (Sources: Food and Agriculture Organization of the U.N.
Global Land Cover Facility and Matthew Hansen, Ruth S. DeFries et al., Earth Interactions (forest cover)
Peter Potapov et al., Ecology and Society (intact forest)
Matthew Hansen et al., PNAS (forest loss)
U.S. Forest Service, British Columbia Ministry of Forests, Alberta Sustainable Resource Development and Canadian Forest Service (mountain pine beetle)
Wildlands and Woodlands (New England forest cover)
 National Interagency Fire Center (wildfires)) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (86%); FOREST FIRES (78%); FIRES (77%); DROUGHT (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (84%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); NORTHEAST USA (76%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); ALBERTA, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); AFRICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



12 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Economic Solutions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Lost Decade?'' (column, Sept. 27):
When David Brooks suggests ''Simplify the tax code. End corporate taxes and create a consumption tax,'' he is working against the people who are the innocent victims of others' gross mismanagement and miscalculations. 
He has pitched three strikes against people in the middle class, and they would surely be ''out'' because of higher overall taxes. And who would be helped? Corporations would pay even higher dividends to the already wealthy, while increased taxes at the supermarket and the mall would put even essentials out of the reach of more and more people.
There may be no simple solution to our problems, and those already struggling to make ends meet while the wealthy fly past on corporate jets will wonder who it was who lost the decade, and for whom.
LEWIS GOLLUB Bethesda, Md., Sept. 27, 2011
To the Editor:
Despite his effort at appearing, dare I say it, ''fair and balanced'' by criticizing the economic approaches of both Democrats and Republicans, David Brooks leaves little doubt as to his personal preferences. He criticizes Democratic efforts at stimulating the economy, while making it clear that he prefers ''tax simplification'' and Medicare reform -- in other words, the mainstream G.O.P. program.
But the Republican alternative doesn't work. Corporate taxes as a percentage of federal revenue have gone down steadily since the 1950s, yet companies find excuses not to invest productively; consumption taxes depress consumer spending; and lowering tax rates generally depresses government revenue without stimulating the economy enough to make up the difference. Reaganomics redux isn't the answer.
If we have a ''lost decade'' in terms of economic growth, it will be precisely because of people like Mr. Brooks who, faced with evidence of the inadequacy of free-market ideology, cling to it regardless.
ERIC B. LIPPS Staten Island, Sept. 27, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks states that no single factor is prolonging the current economic crisis. I disagree.
Low consumer demand, falling housing prices and consumer debt all have the same effect: consumers aren't spending. Given that consumer spending makes up 70 percent of our economy, this is the primary problem.
Other factors cited by Mr. Brooks are not the problem. Businesses are sitting on piles of cash. If consumers were spending, businesses would invest, regardless of ''lack of confidence'' or ''regulatory burdens.''
Consumers can't or won't spend, which is prolonging the economic crisis. Let's focus on a solution.
JONATHAN CAREY San Francisco, Sept. 27, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX REFORM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SALES TAX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); TAX INCREASES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); MEDICARE (65%); CONSUMER LENDING (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HOME PRICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



13 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: California Leaves Talks In Settling Mortgages

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
A decision on Friday by a California official to withdraw from negotiations with large banks over their mortgage practices threatens to derail a broad settlement that the Justice Department has been brokering for nearly a year.
The proposal being sought by the big banks ''is not the deal California homeowners have been waiting for,'' wrote Kamala D. Harris, the state attorney general, in a letter to those leading the talks. It is ''inadequate,'' she wrote.
California is among the states whose homeowners have suffered the most in the housing market collapse, and because of its size, officials involved in the negotiations said banks, including Bank of America, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase, would want its participation before agreeing to settle and to pay substantial sums. 
The talks have been led by the attorney general of Iowa as well as an associate attorney general at the Justice Department's headquarters. The negotiations have evolved from disputes over so-called robo-signing and other improper foreclosure practices into a battle over nearly every aspect of the banks' roles in the housing bubble and subsequent collapse.
If a deal were reached, it could provide billions of dollars for the Obama administration and states to distribute in assistance to homeowners, free banks from some of the mortgage claims that have caused their stocks to sputter, and score a victory for the Justice Department, which has been criticized for pursuing very few cases related to the financial crisis. A spokeswoman for the department said Friday evening that the negotiations would continue.
''We continue to work with the state attorneys general, including California, to ensure that the banks are held fully accountable for their actions,'' said Tracy Schmaler, the spokeswoman.
The main sticking point has been the banks' desire for a broad legal waiver covering future claims over their mortgage practices.
They would like the waiver to cover not only robo-signing and other foreclosure practices but also potential claims related to their creation of mortgage securities before the financial crisis.
A broad deal might help banks reassure investors that they have a good handle on their potential payouts.
But Ms. Harris said in her letter that she was running a full investigation into the creation and sale of mortgage securities. She said she did not want to participate in the deal partly because it would limit her investigation. Though she is the first state official to back out of the negotiations entirely, attorneys general from several states have expressed reservations about a broad waiver, including New York, Delaware, Massachusetts and Nevada.
New York has been among the most vocal in its critiques of such a deal, and New York's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, was kicked off the lead committee of officials negotiating the deal.
He has not, however, pulled out of the talks completely.
Bank analysts said that hopes for a deal had been fading for some time and that banks had little reason to participate without California.
''The banks aren't going to be interested in settling unless it removes future liabilities,'' said Jeffrey Harte, a bank analyst with Sandler O'Neill, ''and here you have population-wise a very big state -- one of the states with a larger portion of mortgage issues -- not going along with it.''
Mr. Harte said an agreement that covered only foreclosure missteps, like robo-signing, would be unlikely to generate the amount of money that federal and state officials had been seeking for homeowner aid. The banks may want to hold onto some of those funds to settle claims about their mortgage securities as well as future losses on mortgages they own.
It remains possible, of course, that California could rejoin the settlement talks, but Ms. Harris said in her letter Friday that the effort was not worth their continued resources.
One tricky issue has been how much aid would be awarded to homeowners in California. Any money collected under a national deal would be distributed among the 50 states, and officials in California and other states that have been hit hardest are under political pressure to obtain significant sums.
Opposition to a deal has grown as well.
A coalition called Californians for a Fair Settlement has been working to block a deal. Among other things, it wants the banks to pay a far higher penalty than the $20 billion that has been floated.
They also want the deal to include widespread principal reduction for the state's homeowners who owe more than their houses are now worth.
Complicating the situation, the housing market in many parts of the country has deteriorated further as the states have been discussing a settlement.
Ms. Harris pointed to the housing weakness in California in her letter. She said that in the 11 months of talks, more than a half-million homes had entered foreclosure in the state. While California used to have five cities ranked on the list of the 10 highest in foreclosures, it now has eight such cities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The attorney general of California, whose homeowners were hit hard by the housing market collapse, said a proposed settlement with banks over their mortgage practices was ''inadequate.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KONRAD FIEDLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



14 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING TRADING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Inflation in Euro Zone Countries Rose in September

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- A surprisingly strong increase in euro zone consumer prices, reported Friday, suggests that the European Central Bank's effort to combat the sovereign debt crisis could be hampered by inflation. 
Consumer prices in the 17-nation euro area rose 3 percent in September from a year earlier, after a 2.5 percent increase in August, the largest increase since October 2008, according to an initial reading by the European Union's statistical office, Eurostat. Economists polled by Bloomberg and Reuters had expected a reading closer to 2.5 percent.
Eurostat did not provide a breakdown of the data, but the euro's recent decline against the dollar and other currencies has made imports, many of which, like oil, are priced in dollars, more expensive in the past few months.
Coming on the heels of reports this past week showing declining consumer confidence in Europe and evidence that much of the regional economy is slowing, the data complicate the monetary policy challenge facing the E.C.B., which has a primary responsibility of maintaining price stability.
In Germany, the largest economy in Europe and its engine of growth for several years, the Federal Statistical Office in Wiesbaden said Friday that retail sales declined 2.9 percent from July, in real, seasonally adjusted terms.
Some analysts had expected the E.C.B. to move as soon as Oct. 6 to ease monetary policy. The combination of stagnant growth and rising prices can create a condition known as stagflation, something fragile banks and anxious consumers are eager to avoid.
And while consumer price rises undermine incomes, many economists say that deflation, or a general decline in price levels, is actually more of a threat at present, considering the deleveraging under way among financial institutions and households.
Ben May, an economist at Capital Economics in London, said investors should expect another move by the E.C.B. by the end of 2011, noting that so-called core inflation, which subtracts energy and food prices because of their volatility, appeared to be well below the central bank's 2 percent target.
''What's more, any rise is likely to prove temporary, given the recent signs that the recovery is coming to an end,'' Mr. May said.
Clemente De Lucia, an economist at BNP Paribas, noted that a methodological change had increased the volatility of consumer price data, meaning that the data should be taken with a grain of salt. In Italy, for example, consumer prices jumped 3.5 percent in September after a 2.3 percent August rise.
He said euro area inflation would probably come in around 2.8 percent this year and fall below 2 percent in 2012.
The U.S. Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, the Swiss National Bank and the Bank of Japan all have set their main overnight target rates at close to zero. The E.C.B.'s main rate is 1.5 percent.
The report weighed on stock markets, with the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chip shares, falling 1.5 percent Friday, while the FTSE 100 in London slid 1.3 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); RETAIL SALES (51%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (92%); SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (60%); BNP PARIBAS SA (59%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (60%); BNP (PAR) (59%); BNP (BIT) (59%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



15 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: A Rising Fear of an Extended Downturn

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
MORE Americans think the job market is bad now than at any time since 1982, when the country was in a severe recession.
The Conference Boardsaid this week that in September exactly 50 percent of Americans polled for its consumer confidence survey said jobs were ''hard to get.'' This slightly exceeds the figure of 49.4 percent who felt that way in October 2009, the month the unemployment rate peaked at 10.1 percent. The most recent unemployment rate, for August, was a full point lower. 
The difference is small, and statistically insignificant. But it nonetheless illustrates how economic pessimism has risen in recent months, more than two years after the recession officially ended. As can be seen in the accompanying charts, there has also been a sharp drop in expected interest rates, itself a sign of an expectation that the economy will not soon recover.
The Conference Board jobs question, asked regularly since 1967, offers three possible responses, with the others being that jobs are ''plentiful'' -- 5.5 percent in September -- or ''not so plentiful'' -- 44.5 percent in the latest survey. During only one previous cycle did the ''hard to get'' figure get to 50 percent. In 1982, when the unemployment rate rose to 10.8 percent, the figure topped out at 61.6 percent.
The Conference Board survey also asks for forecasts as to whether there will be more or fewer jobs in six months. In September, 12 percent expected improvement, up slightly from 11.8 percent the previous month. They were the lowest figures since the recession officially ended in June 2009.
The final chart shows an interest rate not usually seen -- the market forecast of the yield on five-year Treasuries issued five years from now. There is a forward market for Treasuries, where such esoteric things trade. Rates have been low for a few years because of the weak economy and accommodative monetary policy, but there has been general confidence that within five years the economy will have improved enough that rates will be higher.
An exception to that came in late 2008, when the market forecast suddenly plunged as the credit crisis intensified and fears grew of a Great Depression. At the low point, just after Christmas, the forecast was for a rate of 2.84 percent five years later. As fears calmed, the rate rose.
Last week, another plunge pulled down the rate to 2.76 percent, lower than in 2008. This week, it bounced back to a little over 3 percent, still a low rate.
Some of that decline stems from the Federal Reserve's announced plans to try to hold down longer-term rates, but it seems unlikely that is the entire explanation. The more likely reason is that there is rising worry that economic growth will not return for years, as governments and central banks are unwilling or unable to take measures needed to produce recovery.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt famously said at his first inauguration, in the depths of the Depression in 1933, that ''the only thing we have to fear is fear itself -- nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' There is a lot of fear now, and that fear may itself be working against a recovery.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Pessimism on Jobs and Growth: The Conference Board reported this week that half of all Americans now think jobs are hard to get -- a higher percentage than felt that way at any time during the 2007-9 recession -- and more than a quarter think there will be fewer jobs six months from now. In an indication of pessimism about economic growth, investors now expect interest rates to be lower for longer than they did even at the low point during the recession. (Sources: Conference Board
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



16 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Investor Fear Over Morgan Stanley Sharpens

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
It is Morgan Stanley's turn on the hot seat.
As confidence in the soundness of some of the world's biggest banks has fallen in recent weeks, investors have been selling off their shares of one financial institution after another.
Now, the fears about Morgan Stanley are becoming especially acute. Investors are worried about the bank's exposure to the European debt crisis, its ability to weather a turbulent trading environment and its reliance on short-term borrowing to finance its operations. 
The bank and some analysts say the fears are unfounded. But the market drove Morgan Stanley shares down 10.5 percent on Friday to $13.51, and the stock has lost 41 percent in the last three months. That performance was par for the course in what was a bruising third quarter for the entire financial industry. Bank of America shares fell more than 44 percent. Citigroup shares dropped more than 38 percent, while even Goldman Sachs, considered the mightiest of the Wall Street giants, tumbled more than 28 percent.
It was also a brutal quarter for the broader stock market. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 14 percent from July to September, its worst performance since the fourth quarter of 2008 at the height of the financial crisis.
Almost everywhere they looked, investors saw trouble. In the United States, the Congressional deadlock over debt and the downgrade of the nation's once-sterling credit rating rocked the confidence of consumers and businesses. In Europe, rising concerns about a potential Greek default and the inability of other governments to agree on a financial rescue plan surged through the markets. Grim data also pointed to a sharp slowdown in economic growth around the globe.
Now Morgan Stanley, which never regained the prestige and power it had in the years before the 2008 crisis, is quickly becoming a focal point for investors who fear that it may not be able to weather another financial storm
In another closely watched indicator of investor sentiment, the cost of buying protection against a default of Morgan Stanley bonds has soared. It now eclipses the cost of similar insurance on major French banks. Only a few weeks ago, the French banks came under heavy fire amid concerns that they were struggling to finance their operations.
Investors are now paying $449,000 a year to insure $10 million of Morgan Stanley bonds against a possible default in a sparsely traded market in what are called credit-default swaps. That is almost three times the cost in early June, but it is still well below the roughly $1.3 million a year it cost to insure Morgan Stanley bonds a few weeks after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, according to pricing from Markit.
Among investors, the concerns are many. Some worry that the test could come from the company's exposure to French banks. Others fear a liquidity crisis similar to what occurred in 2008 when banks like Morgan Stanley struggled to borrow the short-term debt that keeps them afloat. Still other investors expect the turbulent markets to take their toll on trading and investment banking results, which are the lifeblood of Wall Street.
''It strikes me that everything seems to be O.K. with these guys,'' said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, who is a former treasurer at Morgan Stanley. ''I'm not arguing that we're not seeing stuff in the credit-default swaps market that is pretty scary-looking. But they just don't seem to be having any problems funding themselves.''
Some investors worry that Morgan Stanley may be too reliant on short-term borrowing or that it lacks a significant deposit base like those of the large commercial banks JPMorgan Chase or Bank of America. Others, however, note that Morgan Stanley has shifted much of its borrowing into longer-dated paper since 2006 and that its deposits have risen to $66 billion, from $28 billion.
Citing the quiet period before Morgan Stanley reports third-quarter earnings, a spokeswoman for the company declined to comment.
In recent weeks, analysts and investors have scoured obscure regulatory filings and reports, trying to determine what potential exposure Wall Street banks could have to troubled regions and institutions in Europe.
One filing that quickly gained attention in the market revealed that Morgan Stanley had one of the biggest exposures among Wall Street companies to the ailing French banks -- about $39 billion at the end of last year, before factoring in offsetting hedges and collateral. Morgan Stanley has not provided investors with more up-to-date information.
But in a research note, Mr. Hintz said that Morgan Stanley had substantially reduced its exposure to French banks and estimated that it was now likely to be less than $2 billion, after factoring in collateral and hedges.
Investors also expect Morgan Stanley to report lackluster trading results, in line with many of its peers who have seen a slowdown in activity as clients have moved into cash.
After several periods of lackluster results, Morgan Stanley's trading desks had a standout performance in the second quarter -- besting even Goldman in challenging markets. Morgan Stanley's financial statements showed that it was increasing its appetite for risk.
Now, some investors worry that Morgan Stanley may have turned too aggressive at just the wrong time. They are now girding for another round of dismal results -- especially after JPMorgan warned in mid-September that its trading revenue could fall almost 10 percent from a year ago and now that Wall Street analysts expect Goldman to report a loss in the quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Morgan Stanley building in Manhattan. The company's shares fell 10.5 percent on Friday, and the cost of buying protection against a default of Morgan Stanley bonds has soared. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHARTS: A Bad Quarter for Stocks: The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 14.3% in the third quarter, its worst performance since the financial crisis at the end of 2008. But big European shares fared even worse, down 23.5% for the quarter, the worst since 2002. (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
 Slide Continued Last Quarter: Morgan Stanley stock price (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



17 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Question: Why Pay Bank Fees?

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER and ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
The news on Thursday that Bank of America is imposing a $5 monthly fee on people who have the nerve to use their debit card to buy things probably should not have come as much of a shock.
Wells Fargo, the other giant coast-to-coast bank, had already revealed its plans to test a $3 fee in the wake of new federal rules that made the cards less profitable for many banks.
Bank of America probably has bigger problems than any of its competitors. So it stands to reason that it would make a bolder move. After all, it is dealing with a pile of troubled mortgages, legal fallout from the sales of bonds made from those loans and questions about how it serviced its home mortgages.
Still, the scale of its changes mean that most debit card shoppers who do not have Bank of America mortgages or more than $20,000 in account balances will need to pay that $5 monthly fee. It is a tax on pretty much every customer without a healthy salary or investment income, plus those who want to keep their savings elsewhere for whatever reason. 
Bank of America and Wells Fargo are hardly alone here, since other big banks have toughened the rules for people who want to keep free checking, or have killed off rewards programs to save money. And we probably haven't heard the last of the new rules either. All of these moves together, however, raise a simple and rather obvious question:
Why is anyone still doing business with banks like these?
Just after noon on Friday, Elvita Dominique, who lives in Harlem, was trying to answer that question for herself. She had just left a Bank of America branch on Seventh Avenue in Manhattan having made an appointment with a bank employee who could help her review her options. ''I want to know if they are going to make exceptions,'' she said. (Later in the day, the branch employee said no.)
She had already heard that Citibank did not plan to add monthly debit card fees, so she will investigate that possibility. She is also considering joining a credit union.
Bank of America's move is part of a broader effort to overhaul its checking account lineup. As of sometime early next year, it will have four basic accounts, only one of which will waive the $5 monthly fee for debit card users who want to use the card for purchases. A.T.M. use will not incur the monthly fee, but charging recurring bills like gym memberships or mobile phone plans to your debit card will.
Only Bank of America customers with more than $20,000 in combined checking, savings and certificate of deposit accounts or a bank mortgage (of any size) will be able to avoid both the debit card fee and any other monthly fee for falling below a required minimum balance level.
Merrill Lynch and U.S. Trust customers will also get a waiver, as will unemployed people who use certain government-issued Bank of America cards that have benefit money loaded onto them.
While the bank will not say what percentage of its checking account customers it expects (or hopes) will be paying new fees, $20,000 is a much higher bar to clear than the direct deposit requirement or the $1,500 to $10,000 minimum balances that the bank currently places on many checking account customers who wish to avoid fees.
As a result, plenty of customers will be looking at their options. What would cause people who count on debit cards to help them live within their means to stick around despite the $5 a month fee?
The first factor is the perceived pain involved with switching. And it is a pain, though not as much as you may think. It shouldn't take much more than 90 minutes to reboot direct deposit of your paycheck and move all the automated payments from one account to another.
There may be a few hiccups over the next couple of months, but they shouldn't take more than a few minutes each to fix. Try to leave some money behind in the old account for a few months just in case it takes billers a few cycles to make the switch.
Much depends, then, on how much you value that 90 minutes, versus the $60 in savings you might achieve in Year 1 with your new financial institution. Then you need to weigh the value of your time against the good feeling that would come from rewarding a checking account provider that wasn't so fee-happy.
A.T.M. convenience is another factor that limits switching. Consumers who haven't looked at an online-only institution in awhile will be pleasantly surprised by the developments here. Some of them have tapped into nationwide networks of fee-free machines that are bigger than any one bank's collection of locations. Others let you use any A.T.M. you want and reimburse you for most or all of the fees you pay to withdraw money. Banks like ING Direct, Ally, Charles Schwab and USAA are all worth a look here. They may well pay better interest too, though it won't amount to very much these days.
There could be plenty of people who have no problem with an extra $5 a month. Claudia Smith, who lives in Fayetteville, Ark., said she wasn't worried about the new fee, even though she used her debit card extensively. ''It's well worth $5 a month to not have to carry a checkbook,'' she said.
She rarely uses a branch but had visited one on Friday because the bank had notified her that her debit card information might have been compromised. It issued her a temporary replacement, and she was grateful that there was someplace she could go when the need arose.
''I guess banks have expenses like everyone else,'' she said. ''Do we want to be able to use live tellers?'' (Indeed, we sometimes do, though we don't like to hear from their bosses; our Arkansas correspondent was booted from the sidewalk of the Bank of America Joyce Avenue branch in Fayetteville for ''soliciting'' customers on Friday.)
Some people who live hand to mouth and collect a lot of paper checks like to be near a branch. That way, they can hand piles of them over to a teller and have the deposits clear quickly. That need may make it seem as if the community bank in the next town or a Web-only institution is a poor option.
In the last year or two, however, banks like Schwab and USAA have started letting many customers deposit a lot of their checks by snapping pictures of them with a smartphone and then sending the photos in. It's hard to beat that for speed of deposit. Chase does this, too, even though it has plenty of branches. It won't work for cash, however, so drug dealers are out of luck.
The fed-up have plenty of places to go to find a better bank these days. There is, in fact, a service operating out of findabetterbank.com that can help. The Web site of the Move Your Money project is worth a look, too. You can search for a credit union that will take you in at creditunion.coop.
Lauren Peterson, a junior at the University of Arkansas, may soon be among the money movers. She hadn't heard about the new fee until Friday and wasn't pleased to learn that she would probably be paying it soon.
Ms. Peterson opened her Bank of America account when she went to college because the bank has branches and A.T.M.'s in Fayetteville as well as in Dallas, which allows her to use them when she visits her family. But a $5 monthly fee gives her pause.
''Honestly, I might switch,'' she said. ''I feel it's an inconvenience, especially for students. No one carries cash.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The news that Bank of America will impose a monthly fee on customers who use their debit cards for purchases may not be surprising, but its customers are not without recourse. There are other banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (74%); TELEPHONE RATES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CREDIT UNIONS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



18 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. 500 Declined 14% in 3rd Quarter

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS; David Jolly reported from Paris.

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Friday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its biggest quarterly drop since 2008 -- 14 percent. Reports from China and Germany fueled the decline on concerns that the global economy is slowing.
All 10 categories in the S.& P. 500 slumped as companies most tied to economic growth had the biggest declines. 
The S.& P. 500 retreated 28.98 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,131.42, on Friday, wiping out earlier gains this week as the index extended losses in the last hour of trading.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 240.60 points, or 2.16 percent, to 10,913.38, while climbing 1.3 percent for the week. It was down 12 percent in the quarter.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 65.36 points, or 2.63 percent, to 2,415.40, on Friday, and declined 13 percent in the third quarter.
''It's an accumulation of worries that keep dragging the market down,'' said John Carey, a Boston-based money manager at Pioneer Investments. ''The economic news continues to be mixed and there's still worry about the European debt situation and concern about our own political impasse in Washington.'' He added, ''News like that definitely rings alarm bells for people and makes them more cautious about equities.''
The S.& P. 500 rose 0.8 percent on Thursday as lower-than-estimated claims for unemployment benefits helped offset losses in consumer and technology shares. The index dropped for five consecutive months, the longest falling streak since March 2008. The gauge tumbled 14 percent this quarter, the biggest three-month drop since December 2008, and is down 10 percent for the year.
Equities fell as a Commerce Department report showed consumer spending slowed in August. Purchases rose 0.2 percent after a revised 0.7 percent gain in July. Incomes fell 0.1 percent, missing economists' projection of a 0.1 percent increase.
Stocks pared declines as confidence among consumers rose in September from the lowest level since November 2008. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence index for the month was 59.4, up from a preliminary reading issued two weeks ago of 57.8 and from 55.7 in August. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago's business barometer rose to 60.4 in September from 56.5 in August.
Global equities fell after a report showed that a gauge of Chinese manufacturing shrank for a third month, the longest contraction since 2009, as measures of new orders and export demand declined. The reading of 49.9 for the September purchasing managers' index, released by HSBC Holdings and Markit Economics, was unchanged from August and compared with a preliminary 49.4 figure published last week.
''It seems like cautious trading right now with few new longs or shorts on quarter end,'' Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets in Boston, wrote in an e-mail. ''We saw two reports, the Michigan confidence report and the Chicago P.M.I., come in better than both estimates and previous month's reading. This helped slow the bleeding but it does feel like a nervous market.''
Industrial, commodity and financial companies lost at least 3.2 percent each for the biggest drops among 10 S.& P. 500 groups. Alcoa shares fell 4.9 percent, to $9.57. Stock in General Electric lost 4 percent, to $15.22. Halliburton dropped 5.4 percent, to $30.52, after the price of oil capped its biggest quarterly loss since the 2008 financial crisis.
American Express shares fell 3.9 percent, to $44.90. JPMorgan Chase declined 4.1 percent, to $30.12. Financial companies in the S.& P. 500 declined 23 percent in the quarter.
Two industries that have beaten the S.& P. 500 in the third quarter, computer and software makers as well as companies reliant on discretionary consumer spending, had the biggest declines Thursday and extended losses Friday. The S.& P. 500 information technology index lost 2.8 percent, bringing its three-day drop to 4.6 percent. Discretionary companies erased 2.8 percent and fell 5.3 percent in the last three days.
Micron Technology, the nation's largest maker of computer-memory chips, reported an unexpected loss of 14 cents a share for its fourth fiscal quarter on weak demand for personal computers.
Ingersoll-Rand, which makes products like Club Car golf carts and Schlage locks, forecast third-quarter earnings to be no more than 80 cents a share, below an earlier prediction of at least 85 cents and missing the average analyst estimate of 92 cents. Its stock declined 12 percent, to $28.09.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 25/32 to 101 28/32. The yield fell to 1.92 percent, from 2 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (50%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (50%); HSB (PAR) (50%); HBC (NYSE) (50%); 0005 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



19 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: The Money Is Gone, but the Winery and a Woman's Resolve Remain

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -- Patricia Kluge appeared for years to be one of the nation's wealthiest divorcees, with a breathtaking Virginia mansion known as Albemarle, an ample jewel collection and a river of cash from her ex-husband, the late media magnate John Kluge.
After filing for bankruptcy in June, she has a day job.
Not an ordinary job though. She is working for Donald Trump, who scooped up the winery and vineyard that she had built on the Virginia estate -- a high-risk venture that drained all her money until she had to seek protection from her creditors in court.
And she is living no ordinary life. Instead, she rents a 6,000-square-foot home with a swimming pool and five bedrooms decorated by a celebrity designer, David Easton, in what was intended to be the first house in an exclusive gated community down the road from her old mansion. 
Her vision for an estate and business and gated community was certainly outsize. But the undoing of Ms. Kluge (pronounced KLOO-gy, with a hard ''g'') was not so different from that of many Americans who maxed out their credit cards and their home loans during boom times. She borrowed heavily. It's just that she had so much more to leverage.
While her financial straits have been documented as banks closed in on her, she is speaking publicly at last about her bankruptcy, sounding resolute, reassuring herself about the future -- without the liveried servants that once attended to guests at her hunting parties.
''I loved the life I lived at Albemarle. Are you kidding? But it does not define who I am,'' she says, dressed in cotton slacks and a T-shirt from the Mount Kenya Safari Club. ''If you can get a job, you can build another fortune,'' she adds. ''That is what I focus on.''
For now, Ms. Kluge, 62, and her husband, William Moses, 64, will make about $250,000 under a one-year contract to work for Mr. Trump at the winery. She handles winemaking, bottling and marketing, and Mr. Moses oversees legal and other matters part time. Roughly a third of their money goes to rent.
Lest anyone think that Ms. Kluge's worries are entirely over, her lawyer points out that the future is unclear. ''They are walking out of bankruptcy with nothing,'' said the couple's lawyer, Kermit A. Rosenberg, a partner at Butzell Long Tighe Patton. When they filed for bankruptcy, the couple listed $2.6 million in assets and $47.5 million in liabilities.
From her living room, she points to the few items that are hers: the photographs -- her son in St.-Tropez two decades ago and her 2000 wedding to Mr. Moses -- and her dogs, a Labrador retriever and a Tibetan terrier.
''No one should feel sorry for us,'' Ms. Kluge added later. ''I have a great family, a wonderful marriage and loving children and friends. We are not looking at this bankruptcy as if our life has ended. We see this as an opportunity to recreate ourselves.''
In business, she says, she went down a familiar path learned from Mr. Kluge. During the 1980s, he sold his highly leveraged media properties to a variety of buyers, most notably Rupert Murdoch, for more than $3 billion. ''John was a huge borrower,'' Ms. Kluge recalled. Her strategy was similar, attract equity investors to pay off the debt, make the business cash-flow positive and then sell.
Over a decade, she bet more than $65 million, using her own money at first and then borrowing more, on the winery, a notoriously risky and capital-intensive business. When the economy turned down, she could not make her payments, and the banks forced her to sell her estate, her winery, her jewels and the land she had acquired for the gated community. The jewelry and home furnishings raised nearly $20 million in a pair of auctions.
''It is Shakespearean in that Patricia aimed so high and did not make use of the kind of financial advice that would have increased the chances of making the vineyard work and minimized her financial exposure from the outset,'' said Les Goldman, a business adviser and former partner at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.
She shows signs of strain from years of battling creditors and countering barbs about what could she possibly have done with so much money. Many reports in the press overstated the windfall from her 1990 divorce. A year ago, when she called Mr. Trump for a meeting, he told his staff that they would be seeing a woman who made out very well in her divorce settlement. ''I had always heard she got the income on $1 billion,'' Mr. Trump recalled telling them.
But after a three-minute meeting, he said that he knew Ms. Kluge was in ''huge financial trouble.''
Outright, she received about $25 million in cash in her divorce settlement from Mr. Kluge, according to several people with knowledge of the terms, as well as Albemarle, an opulent mansion of eight bedrooms and 13 bathrooms over 23,000 square feet she had built during their marriage. (Earlier this year Bank of America bought it out of foreclosure for $15 million.)
Mr. Kluge also agreed to pay her close to $1 million a year for life, those people said. But as the banks closed in, she sold off the rights to future payments for just $5 million, money that went to Farm Credit of Virginia, which was owed about $35 million, according to Bill Shmidheiser, a lawyer for the bank. Ms. Kluge declined to comment on the divorce settlement and the sale of those rights.
Plenty of widows and divorcees have suffered greatly from poor investment decisions. Ms. Kluge stands out because she lost so much in a business venture that she began herself and that carried enormous risks, said William D. Zabel, a lawyer who has handled numerous prominent divorces.
Back in 2008, Rothschild, the investment bank, valued the Kluge wine business at $75 million, as her husband is quick to point out. Mr. Trump paid $6.5 million for it earlier this year.
''I buy a lot of very high-end distressed properties, and over the years, I have worked with many people who have lost their fortunes,'' Mr. Trump said. ''They have almost never wanted to see again what they lost or where they came from. Patricia is unique because she is still so deeply involved with the vineyard.''
As general manager, Ms. Kluge now works closely with Mr. Trump's son Eric. ''She has created some of the best wines in the country,'' Eric Trump said, noting they have been served in elite restaurants and at Chelsea Clinton's rehearsal dinner. Ms. Kluge is experimenting with new wines and eagerly presses a visitor to taste an aperitif she is developing. Some wines will continue to carry the Kluge label, while some others will bear the Trump name.
The daughter of a Scottish-Iraqi mother and a British translator, she grew up Patricia Rose in Baghdad. When she was 27, she met Mr. Kluge, then 62, at a Manhattan dinner party.
The hostess, Gigi Fisdell, still recalls the 1976 dinner. ''I had some records with Arab music,'' she said. ''Patricia came with a friend. She was half Iraqi and very exotic with a cascade of long dark hair. John was there. I put the music on and she started belly dancing.''
They were married in 1981, and he supported her social life in Charlottesville, New York and even Scotland, where they had a hunting lodge near Queen Elizabeth's estate. Weekend guests at Albemarle were instructed about wardrobes for weekends that included hunting and fishing and elaborate dinner service with liveried servants followed by dancing and entertainment.
Her social ambitions were short-circuited in 1985 when she was preparing to entertain Prince Charles and Princess Diana in Palm Beach, Fla. Reports surfaced of her earlier marriage to the publisher of Knave, a British girlie magazine, as well as her appearance as a belly dancer in a pornographic film, ''The Nine Ages of Nakedness.''
After her divorce from Mr. Kluge, her first business venture grew out of her son's passion for collecting baseball cards. Recognizing the popularity of soccer in Europe, she began buying rights for trading cards on soccer teams there. In 1991 she traded those rights to Merlin Publishing for a stake in the company. When Merlin was sold to the Topps Company in 1995, her 40 percent stake was worth $20 million, she recalled. Then came the infatuation with a vineyard. ''I did a lot of research and found there was an opening in the sparkling wine market, and we expanded from there,'' she recalled.
By 2008, the couple had increased production to 30,000 cases of wine. Then the economy spiraled downward. Sales plummeted to just 13,561 cases. ''We grew too fast,'' Mr. Moses conceded.
Ms. Kluge and Mr. Moses say they believe that the vineyard could have weathered the storm if the Farm Bank of Virginia had been more cooperative. For the loans, Ms. Kluge had given personal guarantees.
A prospective investor emerged in late 2008, according to Mr. Moses and Mr. Goldman, the couple's business adviser. But after the bank sent out a letter saying the wine business was in violation of loan covenants for failing to meet sales projections, hope was lost. ''We had to say that we are in default,'' Mr. Moses said, ''and then why would anyone invest in the company?''
Michael McCarty, who runs Michael's Restaurants in Manhattan and Los Angeles, has carried the Kluge wines and speaks highly of them, as well as Ms. Kluge.
''Trying to sell a Virginia wine is tough,'' he acknowledged. ''If you make it a cult wine, it can work if you make a very small quantity, but when you make a quality wine in the quantity that she was making from a new contemporary wine-growing region like Charlottesville, as she did, it becomes more difficult to sell.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patricia Kluge and her husband, William Moses, in the vineyard. (B1)
Patricia Kluge and her husband, William Moses, second from right, checking sparkling wine with Trump Winery workers.
 The grand Albemarle mansion. ''I loved the life I lived at Albemarle,'' Ms. Kluge said. ''But it does not define who I am.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); WINERIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); LAWYERS (71%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



20 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Amid G.O.P. Din, Santorum Looks for Chance to Be Heard

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
ANDERSON, S.C. -- There was little fanfare and almost no entourage when Rick Santorum, a Republican candidate for president, rolled up to the Chick-fil-A on Clemson Boulevard here the other day.
His campaign caravan consisted of one car: a black Ford Expedition driven by his South Carolina political director, who is 22. A sign with a stylized red-and-white chicken logo proclaimed ''Welcome Senator Rick Santorum,'' though Mr. Santorum lost his Senate seat nearly five years ago and some patrons had no idea who he was.
''What's his name, again?'' asked Brett Sloan, 24, an electronics salesman for Best Buy, who had stopped in for lunch.
''Tell him to go back to Texas,'' said Ann Bazinet, a retired AT&T switchboard operator and a Democrat, obviously confusing Mr. Santorum with one of his better-known rivals, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. 
It was Mr. Santorum's 27th trip to South Carolina since December 2009. He has also been a regular presence in New Hampshire and moved his wife and seven children (including a disabled 3-year-old daughter) to Iowa for three weeks before the Ames Straw Poll this summer -- all in pursuit of a low-budget and, some might say, quixotic quest for the presidency.
He lacks a traditional springboard to the White House; Pennsylvania voters drummed him out of office when he ran for a third Senate term in 2006. Like other long-shot candidates, Mr. Santorum has spent months struggling to be heard. But now, after a string of strong performances in televised debates in which he stung Mr. Perry and after stumbles by Mr. Perry and Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, another of his rivals for the social conservative vote, Mr. Santorum is having his moment in the sun.
His snappy one-liners and fiery retorts have caught the attention of pundits -- and brought grudging respect from critics who, Mr. Santorum says, must concede, ''Well, he's still here.'' Despite poll numbers in the single digits, reporters are trailing him. At a fund-raiser the other night, aides said, a guest showed up with a $2,000 check.
''I can honestly say during the first couple of debates, I didn't feel completely comfortable, like I belonged there,'' Mr. Santorum confessed in a long interview here. But during the debate in August in Ames, he said, he surveyed his rivals and said to himself, ''I belong here -- I should be president, not these guys.''
Brash and boyish at 53, Mr. Santorum is also polarizing, revered by evangelical Christians for his opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage, but reviled by gay rights advocates. His blunt remarks on homosexuality have landed him in a much-publicized fight with Google, whose search engine gives top billing to a Web site that promotes a made-up, vulgar definition of his surname.
His presidential campaign has given Mr. Santorum the kind of platform he yearned for, but could never quite attain, as an ex-senator. The debates have enabled him to weigh in on everything from education to foreign policy, and to rebrand himself as a ''full-spectrum conservative,'' said Craig Robinson, editor of The Iowa Republican, a political Web site.
Mr. Santorum has gone on the offensive against Mr. Perry over whether sixth-grade girls should be vaccinated to prevent cervical cancer. He took on Mr. Perry over tuition tax breaks for illegal immigrants, and tangled with Representative Ron Paul of Texas over Mr. Paul's suggestion that the United States negotiate with Iran.
He excoriated Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor, for favoring troop withdrawals from Afghanistan. (''Just because our economy is sick,'' Mr. Santorum said acidly, ''does not mean our country is sick.'') And he reinforced his social conservative bona fides by telling a gay soldier he would reinstate the recently repealed ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy barring gay men and lesbians from openly serving.
''I think Rick has a lot of growth potential,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who is planning a foreign policy forum with Mr. Santorum. ''From my point of view, he's been the closest thing to a Ronald Reagan Republican we've had in the debates on national security.''
Critics say Mr. Santorum is simply running a vanity campaign, designed to position him for lucrative speaking engagements or a television contract. But conversations with the candidate suggest something deeper at work: a desire, simply put, to have a voice once again.
After his loss in 2006, by 18 points to Bob Casey, he struggled to find a good fit. He joined a law firm, but cut his ties to escape pressure to become a lobbyist. He worked on a media venture to help parents screen indecent content from television programs, but it ran out of money.
He signed as a Fox News commentator, but found it ''a little frustrating''; producers wanted him to talk politics, not policy. He served on health care boards, wrote a newspaper column, had a regular gig guest-hosting Bill Bennett's talk radio show and directed a foreign policy program at a Washington research organization.
Then, in October 2009, Mr. Santorum traveled to Dubuque University in Iowa to deliver a speech on the economy, prompting speculation that he had presidential aspirations.
''It got a lot of buzz on the Internet,'' he recalled. ''So I thought, 'Wow, maybe there's some interest in what I have to say after all.' ''
His wife, Karen, was not enthusiastic. Their 3-year-old, Bella, has a potentially fatal chromosomal disorder; with Mr. Santorum on the road, she would need a night nurse. ''We prayed about it a lot,'' he said.
Even his friends were skeptical.
''I was concerned for him,'' said Trent Lott, the former Senate Republican leader, who is ''very fond of Rick'' but backs Mitt Romney. ''A lot of people say, 'Well, if you lost re-election in your own state when you're the incumbent, how can you turn that into a victory in a nomination for president?' ''
Mr. Santorum has no campaign headquarters, no speechwriter, no advance team, no advertising budget. Campaign finance records show he raised just $582,000 through the end of June; Herman Cain, the former pizza executive, raised $2.5 million. Mr. Santorum is supporting himself by giving speeches, he said, and running through savings.
He insists he can win the old-fashioned way, through shoe-leather politicking.
Here in Anderson, a small city about 45 minutes outside Greenville, he dropped in on the local Christian talk radio station, WLFJ (With Love From Jesus) Wednesday morning; in an hourlong interview, Mr. Santorum, a Roman Catholic, warned of the dangers of a society where ''religious freedom is trumped by sexual freedom'' and made the case that traditional marriage is good for the nation's economic health.
At the Chick-fil-A, he fielded tough questions from a dozen or so diners. An unemployed health care worker asked about coal and alternative sources of energy. A minister wanted to know why the nation seems so depressed. A fitness instructor who trains troops in the Middle East grilled Mr. Santorum on how he could support military spending while vowing to pass a balanced budget. Mr. Santorum later pegged her (correctly) as a Ron Paul supporter.
It was difficult to tell if he won any hearts or minds. The health care worker, Rebecca Tinsley, afterward said he had ''good scientific smarts.'' The fitness instructor, Ana Chudkosky, complained he ''skirted the issues.''
But on his way out of town, Mr. Santorum stumbled upon what, in his line of work, might pass for good news. A gaggle of women spied him wandering through the Greenville/Spartanburg airport, alone. They had seen the debates.
''Hey!'' one squealed excitedly. ''That's Rick Santorum!''
RICHARD JOHN SANTORUM: BORN: May 10, 1958, in Winchester, Va.; COLLEGE: 1980 graduate of Penn State, where he was a leader of the College Republicans; M.B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh in 1981; and law degree from Dickinson School of Law in 1986.; CONGRESS: Elected to the House in 1990; joined the ''Gang of Seven,'' which exposed Congressional banking practices. Elected to the Senate in 1994.; NOTABLE QUOTE: ''In every society, the definition of marriage has not ever to my knowledge included homosexuality. That's not to pick on homosexuality. It's not, you know, man on child, man on dog, or whatever the case may be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum (A1)
 Rick Santorum, a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination and former senator from Pennsylvania, has made 27 trips to South Carolina since December 2009, including Tuesday, when he answered questions from potential voters at a Chick-fil-A restaurant in Anderson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY T. LYNNE PIXLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (64%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%); ABORTION (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (94%); RICK PERRY (79%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



21 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Obama Turns to Biden to Reassure the Jews, and Get Them to Contribute, Too

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the middle of a meeting with 15 rabbis in Boca Raton, Fla., last week, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. took a punch meant for his boss.
One of the rabbis asked why Jonathan Pollard, the Israeli spy convicted in 1986, was still in prison. Mr. Biden, on a mission to shore up support for President Obama, replied forcefully, according to several people at the meeting.
''President Obama was considering clemency, but I told him, 'Over my dead body are we going to let him out before his time,' '' Mr. Biden said. ''If it were up to me, he would stay in jail for life.''
As Mr. Obama confronts his re-election challenge and the prospect of fracturing support among core constituencies, he is relying increasingly on Mr. Biden for help with one particular group: American Jews, who routinely tend to vote Democratic but whom the Republicans are, once again, making a run at. 
Despite some warning signs, Democratic officials maintain that they do not think that Mr. Obama is in danger of losing the Jewish vote -- particularly given the president's muscular defense of Israel at the United Nations General Assembly last week.
But a Republican victory in the race for a Congressional seat in a heavily Orthodox Jewish district in New York three weeks ago clearly has some Democratic officials unsettled. So the White House has unleashed a barrage of officials -- including Samantha Power, a senior aide at the National Security Council, and Susan Rice, the United States ambassador to the United Nations -- to soothe relations with American Jewish leaders.
Topping the list, though, is Mr. Biden, who on Wednesday will host a Rosh Hashana party at his residence for Jewish leaders. Mr. Biden has taken on the job of fund-raising among Jewish Democrats, at the same time that he has been seeking to assure the party's base that the Obama administration remains a loyal friend to Israel. At a fund-raiser Sept. 20 at a home in Shaker Heights, Ohio, all but one of the questions that Mr. Biden took were about foreign policy -- namely Israel. Ditto for many other fund-raisers where Mr. Biden has been the top attraction, administration officials said, as he has sought to soothe, clarify and reassure.
''Am I going to the party on the 5th? Yes,'' said Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League. Mr. Biden, Mr. Foxman said, ''is comfortable with the community, and the community is comfortable with him.''
''He's seen as a friend,'' Mr. Foxman said.
Administration officials say that the White House clearly agrees, and it needs all the Jewish friends it can get; American Jews have long been a dependable source of campaign contributions for Democrats. Mr. Biden has been encouraged to provide a narrative for Jewish constituents that offers a counterpoint to Republican presidential candidates who have accused the administration of being too tough on its foremost ally and too sympathetic to the Palestinians and Israel's other Arab neighbors.
When Dan Senor, the co-author with Saul Singer of ''Start-up Nation: The Story of Israel's Economic Miracle,'' wrote an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal on Sept. 14 accusing Mr. Obama of building ''the most consistently one-sided diplomatic record against Israel of any American president in generations,'' it was Mr. Biden's top national security adviser, Antony J. Blinken, whom the White House chose to hit back.
In his 1,000-word letter to the editor, Mr. Blinken went into a full exposition of all the ways in which Mr. Obama has been helpful to Israel, highlighted by an unparalleled $3 billion in military assistance, including an additional $205 million to build the Iron Dome rocket defense system for communities on Israel's border with Gaza. He also emphasized the United States' effort to block a declaration of statehood at the United Nations by the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, and intervening to protect the Israeli ambassador when a violent mob stormed the embassy in Cairo.
At his Boca Raton meeting with the rabbis -- at the home of a former Democratic congressman, Ron Klein -- Mr. Biden went through the same list, adding some flourishes of his own.
Mr. Biden, who through his foreign policy work in the Senate built lifelong ties with Israeli politicians, is able to sprinkle his remarks with asides about how he first met Yitzhak Rabin back in 1973 when Mr. Rabin was working with Golda Meir, then the Israeli prime minister, and how Mrs. Meir once confided to Mr. Biden that Israel's secret weapon is that it has ''nowhere else to go.'' He talked about having dinner at the home of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and about how he autographed a photo for Mr. Netanyahu with ''love you, love you, love you, but we don't agree on anything,'' Mr. Klein said.
It is a level of comfort with all things Israeli in general and Jewish in particular that Mr. Obama simply cannot convey, White House officials acknowledge.
''Joe Biden has been in the Senate for 30-something years,'' Mr. Klein said, ''while I think Obama probably did take every right vote on Israel when he was in the Senate, he just hasn't been around that long.''
Mr. Biden told the rabbis that the administration had made a few missteps in its handling of the Israel relationship, including Mr. Obama's decision not to go to Jerusalem as president, after he made his famous Cairo speech in 2009 in which he elevated the plight of the Palestinians to equal status with the Israelis'. (In fact, it was Mr. Biden who traveled to Israel that year, in what ended up being a disastrous trip in which the Israeli government announced new settlements just before his meeting with Mr. Netanyahu, prompting a sharp response from the Obama administration that included an irate 45-minute telephone call from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to Mr. Netanyahu.)
Rabbi Jeffrey Kurtz-Lendner, the senior rabbi at Temple Solel in Hollywood, Fla., said he went to the Boca Raton meeting after receiving an invitation from the office of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, who is chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. Rabbi Kurtz-Lendner, who voted for Mr. Obama in 2008, said he arrived with several questions in mind, including why the administration had allowed its spats with Mr. Netanyahu to become public.
But Mr. Biden addressed all of his issues before he could ask them, the rabbi said, and he ended up not even raising his hand to speak. ''Anything that I wanted to say, he already said, so at that point, the only thing I could have said was, 'You look good,' '' Rabbi Kurtz-Lendner said, laughing.
He said he left the meeting with many of his doubts assuaged. ''Having this meeting really showed me that they do understand the issue,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about efforts by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to reassure Jewish voters about President Obama's commitment to Israel gave an outdated role at Fox News for Dan Senor, who criticized the president's stance on Israel in a recent op-ed article for The Wall Street Journal. While Mr. Senor was under contract with Fox News at one point as a regular contributor, he now appears only as a guest on its programs, and therefore is not ''a Fox News commentator.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. welcomed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Congress in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRISONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); ROSH HASHANAH (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); SAMANTHA POWER (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); SUSAN RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



22 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
NORTH KOREA INTRODUCES
AND BOLSTERS A NEW LEADER
A year after Kim Jong-un made his public debut as North Korea's leader-in-waiting, footage of the old party elite bowing and scraping before him have become a staple of North Korea's propagandist media, a crucial tool for the country's leader, Kim Jong-il, to elevate his son as his successor. Page A4
REPORTER TO BREAK SILENCE 
A reporter who is among the 16 people arrested and then freed on bail in the cellphone-hacking case that has shaken Rupert Murdoch's media empire in Britain warned his former bosses that he plans to break his silence on the scandal in a civil court case. Page A5
CAR BOMB IN IRAQI TOWN
A large car bomb exploded at a funeral in a southern Shiite town, leaving several people dead and more than 60 wounded. Page A5
JAPAN LIFTS ADVISORIES
Despite continued fears over radiation levels, Japan lifted evacuation advisories for an area spanning five towns and cities around a tsunami-ravaged nuclear power plant. Page A6
NATO CONCERNS ON TURKEY
NATO's secretary general expressed concern about tensions over natural gas exploration in the Mediterranean between Turkey and Cyprus, as well as Turkey's strained relations with Israel. Page A6
National
WAGE EQUALITY INCREASES
BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN
The recession was bad for everyone, but women experienced at least one silver lining: Their median earnings edged a bit closer to men's. The progress was bittersweet, however: It happened not because women earned more, but because men earned less, according to an analysis of new Census Bureau data. Page A10
RULING ON PRISON PROPOSAL
A state judge ruled that it was unconstitutional for the Florida Legislature to attach a far-reaching proposal -- one that would privatize 29 prisons in South Florida -- to ''the hidden recesses'' of an appropriations bill. Page A15
A TRUSTEE FOR SOLYNDRA
The Department of Justice asked a federal court to appoint a trustee to oversee the bankruptcy of the solar panel maker Solyndra because its top executives had asserted their Fifth Amendment right to avoid self-incrimination. Page A14
New York
BLOOMBERG TO TESTIFY
AGAINST G.O.P. CONSULTANT
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is scheduled to take the witness stand to testify against a Republican political consultant accused of stealing more than $1 million from him, according to two people familiar with the trial schedule. Page A17
Business
NEW FEES FOR DEBIT CARDS
MAY ALIENATE CUSTOMERS
Bank of America and Wells Fargo both plan to start charging customers fees for using their debit cards, not surprising in the wake of new federal rules that make the cards less profitable for banks. What is surprising is why anybody would still do business with banks like these. Your Money. Page B1
POLITICS FROM THE PULPIT
This weekend, hundreds of pastors, including some of the nation's evangelical leaders, will preach about American politics, flouting a law prohibiting tax-exempt churches and other charities from campaigning on election issues. Page B1
S.E.C. FAULTS CREDIT RATERS
An examination of credit ratings agencies by the Securities and Exchange Commission found repeated instances of the companies failing to follow their own procedures or to adequately manage conflicts of interest, according to an S.E.C. staff report. Page B4
Sports
WITH NEBRASKA IN TOWN,
WISCONSIN READY TO JUMP
When Nebraska travels to Wisconsin for its Big Ten inauguration, the game will resonate in more ways than one. Wisconsin is bracing for the presence of 30,000 Nebraska fans in Madison, many of whom do not have tickets. Page D2
Arts
DC COMICS' PLAN TO ATTRACT NEW READERS IS WORKING
DC Comics' plan to reset all its series and reintroduce their heroes as if they were appearing for the first time was intended to entice new readers by simplifying decades of lore. The tactic was risky: if it failed, it could alienate longtime readers and send an already declining industry into a tailspin. But so far, the heroes seemed to have carried the day. Page C1
A CAUTIONARY FILM FOR FANS
Alex Gibney's film ''Catching Hell'' recounts what happened to a Chicago Cubs fan after he stood, along with everyone seated near him, to catch a foul ball during the 2003 playoff series between the hometown Cubs and the Florida Marlins. Page C3
Fashion
CHALAYAN BRINGS SIMPLICITY
AND EASE TO THE RUNWAY
Hussein Chalayan has realized that what fashion needs more than ever is wit and simplicity. In a satisfying show that seemed effortlessly to reinterpret a Chalayan wardrobe, writes Cathy Horyn, he dressed as a Parisian waiter dispensing flutes of drink with great reserve to the models on his runway. Page A20
Joe Nocera PAGE A19
Charles M. Blow PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); TESTIMONY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); WITNESSES (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MAYORS (73%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); BAIL (70%); COMPUTER CRIME (70%); EQUAL PAY (70%); ARRESTS (70%); JUDGES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); APPROPRIATIONS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); TSUNAMIS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); CENSUS (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); GENDER EQUALITY (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (63%); DEBIT CARDS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (52%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (51%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (51%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (60%); SOLYNDRA INC (52%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (79%); KIM JONG UN (73%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CYPRUS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



23 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Another Day Passes Without N.B.A. Deal

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
The N.B.A. did not cancel the season on Friday, but it inched ever closer to deleting games from the calendar after another day passed without a labor deal.
Ten owners and more than 20 players -- including the superstars LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Carmelo Anthony -- met for nearly five hours at a Midtown Manhattan hotel as the parties began a last-minute push to broker a deal before endangering regular-season games.
The tone in the room was alternately heated and cooperative, and the meeting ended without any progress on the two most critical issues: division of revenue and the structure of the salary cap. The parties will resume discussions on Saturday morning. 
''We discussed a little bit of everything,'' said Derek Fisher, the president of the players union, with 14 players behind him. ''We did not come out of here with a deal today.''
In keeping with their month-long agreement, officials on both sides declined to offer details on the substance of their discussion, and they avoided making any predictions about whether a deal was possible this weekend.
Time is growing short. The league needs three to four weeks to draft a deal, sign free agents, hold training camps and play one or two preseason games before starting the season. Opening night is scheduled for Nov. 1.
If the parties do not have the framework of an agreement in the coming week, cancellations will be practically unavoidable. N.B.A. officials will not make that concession just yet, however. Commissioner David Stern also denied, in the strongest terms, that he had any intention of canceling the entire season if no deal was made this weekend.
ESPN.com, citing anonymous sources, reported on Wednesday night that Stern intended to make that threat at Friday's meeting.
''Whatever the eventuality is, the idea that we would at an early stage cancel the season is as ludicrous today as it was'' when it was reported, Stern said. ''It's just not in the cards. The only thing that we said is that it's hard, in terms of negotiations, if you start to lose regular-season games, because both parties' positions harden.''
Fisher and Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, also denied that any threat had been made, or even implied. Hunter called the report ''way off base.''
Friday's meeting was the most heavily attended since the lockout began on July 1, and the first since then to involve so many elite players. Those present included Boston's Paul Pierce and Ray Allen, Oklahoma City's Kevin Durant, Cleveland's Baron Davis and Philadelphia's Andre Iguodala, in addition to James and Wade of the Miami Heat and the Knicks' Anthony. They joined the union's nine-man executive board, which includes the New Orleans star Chris Paul.
The owners had 9 of 11 members of their labor committee present, plus the Miami Heat owner Mickey Arison.
While the labor agreement remains out of reach, one critical piece of the N.B.A.'s new economy -- a broader revenue-sharing plan -- is nearly in place. Stern said the league would triple its revenue-sharing pool next season and quadruple it by the third year of a new labor deal. The league has presented the outline to the union, which had been demanding more information about the revenue-sharing plan as part of the negotiations.
The league is still seeking major economic concessions from the players, however, to address a reported $300 million in annual losses.
''As we've said before, revenue sharing doesn't change the aggregate economics,'' Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver said. ''The union understands that as well.''
The union has offered to reduce the players' share of revenue from the current 57 percent to as low as 52-53 percent, with every point worth about $40 million. Owners want to start a new deal at closer to 50-50, with the players' share declining in subsequent years, according to people monitoring the talks.
The owners have dropped their demand for a hard salary cap, but they are seeking a multitude of new restrictions on the soft-cap system that the players oppose. In their most recent proposal, the luxury-tax threshold would decrease and come with much stiffer penalties, ranging from a dollar-for-dollar tax at the low end to a four-for-one tax at the high end.
Fisher said such a system ''still, in just about every sense, would be a hard cap for our teams.'' He added, ''It doesn't mean that the negotiation is over. But it's definitely not anywhere close to where we'd be able to agree to it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); LOCKOUTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (50%) OKLAHOMA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011



24 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Occupying, and Now Publishing, Too

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The downtown protesters' free newspaper made its debut Saturday with a press run of 50,000. The Occupied Wall Street Journal will not be mistaken for its near-namesake. 

 BODY:
Just before noon, Chelsea Potter stood on the corner of Broadway and Liberty Street holding a sheaf of newspapers and offering them to passers-by.
"Excuse me," she said to a man in a tan raincoat. "Would you like a copy of The Occupied Wall Street Journal?"
The man accepted the paper without breaking stride then looked at it as he continued walking.
Over the last two weeks, as people participating in a protest called Occupy Wall Street have called attention to what they say are inequities in the economic system, the ways in which news organizations have covered the protests have been a subject of hot debate.
Some protesters have wished aloud for reporting more in line with their own conception of themselves.
Now, they have their own newspaper. It debuted on Saturday with a print run of 50,000, after two independent journalists in New York started a campaign using the online fund-raising platform Kickstarter.
"This movement has sometimes been misrepresented," said Arun Gupta, 46, one of the two primary organizers of the project. "This paper is for the general public to let them know what is going on here."
The four-page broadsheet includes a story by Mr. Gupta headlined "The Revolution Begins at Home," an essay by the former New York Times war correspondent Chris Hedges urging people to participate in the protests, and a "Declaration of the Occupation" approved at a meeting of protesters on Sept. 29.
"There are no excuses left," Mr. Hedges writes in a piece reprinted from the site Truthdig, where has a regular column. 
Either you obstruct, in the only form left to us, which is civil disobedience, the plundering by the criminal class on Wall Street and accelerated destruction of the ecosystem that sustains the human species, or become the passive enabler of a monstrous evil. Either you taste, feel and smell the intoxication of freedom and revolt or sink into the miasma of despair and apathy. Either you are a rebel or a slave.
Mr. Gupta, and the other main organizer, Jed Brandt, 38, both have experience working on the Indypendent, a left-leaning paper that publishes about 16 issues a year and that Mr. Gupta co-founded 11 years ago.
The two men opened an account on Kickstarter on Thursday, Mr. Brandt said, describing the paper as a public art project. Within eight hours, he said, they had raised more than $12,000.
The papers were printed Friday night in Long Island City, Queens, and delivered to Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, where protesters have been camping, on Saturday morning.
There, the papers made their way to people like Ms. Potter, 20, from Augusta, Ga., who said that she had come to New York to join to protests because she believes that corporations have all but taken over government.
"We need a different world," she said.
Papers were distributed to protesters and nonprotesters. Somebody tucked a copy into the arm of J. Seward Johnson's "Double Check," a life sized bronze statue of a businessman looking into a briefcase that sits on a granite bench in the park.
One of the nonprotesters who accepted a paper was Veronica Cook, 19, from Groton, Conn., who was visiting New York with her husband, Steven Cook, who is in the Navy.
Ms. Cook said that she did not know much about the protesters or their objectives, but said she would take a look at the paper she had been handed.
"At least they are not just shouting in a corner," she said. "Making a newspaper is a good way to try to get a message out."

        
Protests Stir Up Voices on the Web
        
Radiohead Show 'Definitely Not Going to Happen,' Band Says
        
Officer's Pepper-Spraying of Protesters Is Under Investigation
        
Park Gives Wall St. Protesters a Place to Call Home
        
TimesCast: Wall Street Protests Continue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (88%); WRITERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (71%); LIBERALISM (66%); CAMPING (60%) Occupy Wall Street; Wall Street protests; Gupta, Arun; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Newspapers; Kickstarter; Manhattan (NYC); Cultural Affairs; Government & Politics; Public Spaces

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Kickstarter; Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: Gupta, Arun

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



25 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Police Arrest More Than 700 Protesters on Brooklyn Bridge

BYLINE: AL BAKER, COLIN MOYNIHAN and SARAH MASLIN NIR


HIGHLIGHT: The police arrested more than 700 demonstrators from the Occupy Wall Street protests who took to the roadway as they tried to cross the Brooklyn Bridge. Early Sunday morning, some of those released were trickling out of precincts in Manhattan. 

 BODY:
Updated, 1:23 p.m. Sunday | In a tense showdown above the East River, the police arrested more than 700 demonstrators from the Occupy Wall Street protests who took to the roadway as they tried to cross the Brooklyn Bridge on Saturday afternoon.
The police said it was the marchers' choice that led to the enforcement action.
"Protesters who used the Brooklyn Bridge walkway were not arrested," Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the New York Police Department, said. "Those who took over the Brooklyn-bound roadway, and impeded vehicle traffic, were arrested."
But many protesters said they believed the police had tricked them, allowing them onto the bridge, and even escorting them partway across, only to trap them in orange netting after hundreds had entered.
"The cops watched and did nothing, indeed, seemed to guide us onto the roadway," said Jesse A. Myerson, a media coordinator for Occupy Wall Street who marched but was not arrested.
A video on the YouTube page of a group called We Are Change shows some of the arrests.
Around 1 a.m., the first of the protesters held at the Midtown North Precinct on West 54th Street were released. They were met with cheers from about a half-dozen supporters who said they had been waiting as a show of solidarity since 6 p.m. for around 75 people they believed were held there. Every 10 to 15 minutes, they trickled out into a night far chillier than the afternoon on the bridge, each clutching several thin slips of paper -- their summonses, for violations like disorderly conduct and blocking vehicular traffic. The first words many spoke made the group laugh: all variations on "I need a cigarette."
David Gutkin, 24, a Ph.D. student in musicology at Columbia University, was among the first released. He said that after being corralled and arrested on the bridge, he was put into plastic handcuffs and moved to what appeared to be a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus, along with dozens of other protesters, for over four hours. They headed first into Brooklyn and then to several locations in Manhattan before arriving at the 54th Street precinct.
Men and women had been held separately, two or three to a cell. A few said they had been zip-tied the entire time. "We sang 'This Little Light of Mine,' " said Annie Day, 34, who when asked her profession said, "I'm a revolutionary." Ms. Day was wearing laceless Converse sneakers: police had required the removal of all laces as well as her belt. She rethreaded them on the pavement while a man who identified himself as a lawyer took each newly freed person's name.
None of the protesters interviewed knew if the bridge march was planned or a spontaneous decision by the crowd. But all insisted that the police had made no mention that the roadway was off limits. Ms. Day and several others said that police officers had walked beside the crowd until the group reached about midway, then without warning began to corral the protesters behind orange nets.
The scene outside the Midtown South Precinct on West 35th Street around 2 a.m. was far more jovial. Only about 15 of the rumored 57 people had been released, but about a dozen waiting supporters danced jigs in the street to keep warm. They snacked on pizza. One even drank Coors Light beer, stashing the empty bottles under a parked police van. When a fresh protester was released, he or she ran through a gantlet formed by the waiting group, like a football player bursting onto the field during the Super Bowl. "This is so much better than prison!" one cheered.
"It's cold," said Rebecca Solow, 27, rubbing her arms as she waited on the sidewalk, "but every time one is released, it warms you up."
The march on the bridge had come to a head shortly after 4 p.m., as the 1,500 or so marchers reached the foot of the Brooklyn-bound car lanes of the bridge, just east of City Hall.
In their march north from Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan - headquarters for the last two weeks of a protest movement against what demonstrators call inequities in the economic system - they had stayed on the sidewalks, forming a long column of humanity penned in by officers on scooters.
Where the entrance to the bridge narrowed their path, some marchers, including organizers, stuck to the generally agreed-upon route and headed up onto the wooden walkway that runs between and about 15 feet above the bridge's traffic lanes.
But about 20 others headed for the Brooklyn-bound roadway, said Christopher T. Dunn of the New York Civil Liberties Union, who accompanied the march. Some of them chanted "take the bridge." They were met by a handful of high-level police supervisors, who blocked the way and announced repeatedly through bullhorns that the marchers were blocking the roadway and that if they continued to do so, they would be subject to arrest.
There were no physical barriers, though, and at one point, the marchers began walking up the roadway with the police commanders in front of them - seeming, from a distance, as if they were leading the way. The Chief of Department Joseph J. Esposito, and a horde of other white-shirted commanders, were among them.
After allowing the protesters to walk about a third of the way to Brooklyn, the police then cut the marchers off and surrounded them with orange nets on both sides, trapping hundreds of people, said Mr. Dunn. As protesters at times chanted "white shirts, white shirts," officers began making arrests, at one point plunging briefly into the crowd to grab a man.
The police said that those arrested were taken to several police stations and were being charged with disorderly conduct, at a minimum. A police spokesman said some protesters -- mostly those without identification -- were still "going through the system" late Sunday morning.
A freelance reporter for The New York Times, Natasha Lennard, was among those arrested. She was later released.
Mr. Dunn said only people at the very front could hear the warning, and he was concerned that those in the back "would have had no idea that it was not O.K. to walk on the roadway of the bridge." Mr. Browne said that people who were in the rear of the crowd that may not have heard the warnings were not arrested and were free to leave.
Earlier in the afternoon, as many as 10 Department of Correction buses, big enough to hold 20 prisoners apiece, had been dispatched from Rikers Island in what one law enforcement official said was "a planned move on the protesters."
Etan Ben-Ami, 56, a psychotherapist from Brooklyn who was up on the walkway, said that the police seemed to make a conscious decision to allow the protesters to claim the road. "They weren't pushed back," he said. "It seemed that they moved at the same time."
Mr. Ben-Ami said he left the walkway and joined the crowd on the road. "It seemed completely permitted," he said. "There wasn't a single policeman saying 'don't do this'."
He added: "We thought they were escorting us because they wanted us to be safe." He left the bridge when he saw officers unrolling the nets as they prepared to make arrests. Many others who had been on the roadway were allowed to walk back down to Manhattan.
Mr. Browne said that the police did not trick the protesters into going onto the bridge.
"This was not a trap," he said. "They were warned not to proceed."
In related protests elsewhere in the country, 25 people were arrested in Boston for trespassing while protesting Bank of America's foreclosure practices, according to Eddy Chrispin, a spokesman for the Boston Police Department. The protesters were on the grounds and blocking the entrance to the building, Mr. Chrispin said.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, speaking briefly before marching in the Pulaski Day Parade in Manhattan on Sunday, also defended the police's actions.
"The police did exactly what they were supposed to do," the mayor said, noting that those who march without the city's permission would continue to get summonses. "It's very easy to get a permit," he added.
As the morning wore on, Zuccotti Park had the hallmarks of Sundays the world over. There was brunch: someone had donated bagels and lox. There was the morning paper: protesters who had camped for the night read the self-published newspaper "The Occupied Wall Street Journal," some snuggled the metallic blankets usually worn by marathon runners. One man brushed his teeth without water, standing up.
The scene was largely quiet, save a man in a fedora freestyle rapping with drummers in the east corner of the park. Many of those who had been arrested returned at about 3 a.m. to a heroes reception, said Rick DeVoe, 54, from East Hampton, Mass. They were sleeping in.
"It's not always at a fever pitch," Mr. DeVoe said. "It's not easy sleeping out, it's not easy going to jail."
Quiet political discussions continued around the sleepers. One woman gave a pep talk to what looked like a new recruit. "It's about taking down systems, it doesn't matter what you're protesting," she said. "Just protest."
Some tourists wandered in between the makeshift beds and volunteers sweeping up cigarette butts. A man visiting from Virginia and his 4-year-old son snapped photos, as did an elderly couple passing through.

        
Occupying, and Now Publishing, Too
        
Protests Stir Up Voices on the Web
        
Radiohead Show 'Definitely Not Going to Happen,' Band Says
        
Officer's Pepper-Spraying of Protesters Is Under Investigation
        
Park Gives Wall St. Protesters a Place to Call Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (95%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (95%); ARRESTS (95%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); RIOTS (73%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); LAWYERS (60%); MUSIC (50%) Occupy Wall Street; Wall Street protests; Dunn, Christopher T; Brooklyn Bridge (NYC); Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Police Department (NYC); Crime & Public Safety; Police and Fire

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street; Police Department (NYC)

PERSON: Dunn, Christopher T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



26 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Occupying, and Now Publishing, Too

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The downtown protesters' free newspaper made its debut Saturday with a press run of 50,000. The Occupied Wall Street Journal will not be mistaken for its near-namesake. 

 BODY:
Just before noon, Chelsea Potter stood on the corner of Broadway and Liberty Street holding a sheaf of newspapers and offering them to passers-by.
"Excuse me," she said to a man in a tan raincoat. "Would you like a copy of The Occupied Wall Street Journal?"
The man accepted the paper without breaking stride then looked at it as he continued walking.
Over the last two weeks, as people participating in a protest called Occupy Wall Street have called attention to what they say are inequities in the economic system, the ways in which news organizations have covered the protests have been a subject of hot debate.
Some protesters have wished aloud for reporting more in line with their own conception of themselves.
Now, they have their own newspaper. It debuted on Saturday with a print run of 50,000, after two independent journalists in New York started a campaign using the online fund-raising platform Kickstarter.
"This movement has sometimes been misrepresented," said Arun Gupta, 46, one of the two primary organizers of the project. "This paper is for the general public to let them know what is going on here."
The four-page broadsheet includes a story by Mr. Gupta headlined "The Revolution Begins at Home," an essay by the former New York Times war correspondent Chris Hedges urging people to participate in the protests, and a "Declaration of the Occupation" approved at a meeting of protesters on Sept. 29.
"There are no excuses left," Mr. Hedges writes in a piece reprinted from the site Truthdig, where has a regular column. 
Either you obstruct, in the only form left to us, which is civil disobedience, the plundering by the criminal class on Wall Street and accelerated destruction of the ecosystem that sustains the human species, or become the passive enabler of a monstrous evil. Either you taste, feel and smell the intoxication of freedom and revolt or sink into the miasma of despair and apathy. Either you are a rebel or a slave.
Mr. Gupta, and the other main organizer, Jed Brandt, 38, both have experience working on the Indypendent, a left-leaning paper that publishes about 16 issues a year and that Mr. Gupta co-founded 11 years ago.
The two men opened an account on Kickstarter on Thursday, Mr. Brandt said, describing the paper as a public art project. Within eight hours, he said, they had raised more than $12,000.
The papers were printed Friday night in Long Island City, Queens, and delivered to Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, where protesters have been camping, on Saturday morning.
There, the papers made their way to people like Ms. Potter, 20, from Augusta, Ga., who said that she had come to New York to join to protests because she believes that corporations have all but taken over government.
"We need a different world," she said.
Papers were distributed to protesters and nonprotesters. Somebody tucked a copy into the arm of J. Seward Johnson's "Double Check," a life sized bronze statue of a businessman looking into a briefcase that sits on a granite bench in the park.
One of the nonprotesters who accepted a paper was Veronica Cook, 19, from Groton, Conn., who was visiting New York with her husband, Steven Cook, who is in the Navy.
Ms. Cook said that she did not know much about the protesters or their objectives, but said she would take a look at the paper she had been handed.
"At least they are not just shouting in a corner," she said. "Making a newspaper is a good way to try to get a message out."

        
Protests Stir Up Voices on the Web
        
Radiohead Show 'Definitely Not Going to Happen,' Band Says
        
Officer's Pepper-Spraying of Protesters Is Under Investigation
        
Park Gives Wall St. Protesters a Place to Call Home
        
TimesCast: Wall Street Protests Continue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (88%); WRITERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (71%); LIBERALISM (66%); CAMPING (60%) Occupy Wall Street; Wall Street protests; Gupta, Arun; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Newspapers; Kickstarter; Manhattan (NYC); Cultural Affairs; Government & Politics; Public Spaces

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Kickstarter; Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: Gupta, Arun

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



27 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Reads and Reactions

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: In this edition: upheaval in the Republican presidential nomination contest, an old foe returns, college football chaos and baseball collapses. 

 BODY:
Reactions
The Republican nominating process has been dominated recently by rekindled interest in Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. Republican donors and luminaries have been trying to coax him into the ring, so FiveThirtyEight explored whether the prospect of Candidate Christie should more unnerve Gov. Rick Perry of Texas or Mitt Romney.
The New Republic's Jonathan Cohn examined the origins of surging interest in Mr. Christie specifically, but also the well-worn phenomenon of "savior candidates." Mr. Cohn wisely observed that "in modern politics, 'savior' candidates are never again as popular as they are the day before they announce."
But lest Mr. Christie's admirers get too feverish, The San Francisco Chronicle has a Bloomberg roundup of the (many, many) times Mr. Christie has said he will not run.
One reason attention turned to Mr. Christie was Mr. Perry's somewhat abysmal debate performance. FiveThirtyEight noted the subsequent sagging in Mr. Perry's favorability and horse-race numbers. Slate's John Dickerson, in a walk-through of Mr. Perry's debate missteps, argued that the mistakes were particularly damaging because they undercut the heart of the case Mr. Perry was making to the Republican primary electorate, that, as Mr. Dickerson wrote, "Perry is one of you - he prays, he speaks plainly, he's from a small town in Texas - and Moneybags Mitt ain't."

At Outside the Beltway, Doug Mataconis took a step back and challenged the importance placed on presidential debate performances in the first place.
Another upshot of the emerging unhappiness with Mr. Perry was renewed interest in Herman Cain. Way back in May, FiveThirtyEight outlinedseveral reasons for taking Mr. Cain's campaign seriously. Mr. Cain's national poll numbers proceeded to rise, then fall and now they are up again.
Well, The Wall Street Journal seemed to have taken notice. The Journal's columnist Daniel Henninger, in an column headlined "Taking Cain Seriously," argued that Mr. Cain's business-heavy, politics-lite resume -- not typical for a White House aspirant -- should be a plus in voters' minds, not a negative.
Salon's Steve Kornacki, however, took the resurgence of Mr. Cain, as well as Newt Gingrich, another way. Mr. Kornacki wrote that the improved outlook for the two candidates "may be the surest sign yet of Rick Perry's failure to meet his potential."
In The American Thinker, John Zeigler took issue with FiveThirtyEight's analysis of the Pennsylvania G.O.P.'s plan to remake how the state apportions its electoral votes. (Mr. Zeigler and FiveThirtyEight have had previous disagreements).
Leaving politics, Nate's analysis of college football fandom and its implications for conference realignment -- which appeared at The Quad -- drew a mixed review from On the Banks, a blog focused on Rutgers football. 
FiveThirtyEight performed a preemptive autopsy on the Boston Red Sox late-season crack-up, and then dissected its final, heart-breaking (or uplifting, depending on your loyalties) chapter. The Financial Times' blog, Alphaville, published an interesting article explaining how Boston's collapse illuminates another breakdown -- the 2008 financial free-fall.
And finally, our Comment-of-the-Half-Month goes to... Chrislav from New York City. In a not strictly on-topic response to "Bill Buckner Strikes Again," she advised single women to go see "Moneyball," and not just for Brad Pitt. The movie, Chrislav wrote, "attracts smart men, not so much the shoot 'em up car-crash gun fightin' type, but thoughtful, sensitive, baseball-loving men." She concludes:
So girls -- you say you don't know where to meet great guys? I say put your best dress on, call up your girlfriends, head for the local movie theater playing "Moneyball," get there early, make a few trips to the concession stand to scout out the audience, and your chance of meeting that special guy there are way better than your chances of meeting one in a bar.
Thank you to the cupid-inclined Chrislav (unless you secretly work for Sony Pictures Entertainment).
Reads
At The Monkey Cage, Erica Chenoweth wrote an insightful article about terrorism and democracy.
A National Journal article by Ronald Brownstein and Scott Bland unpacks new census data and finds "the Great Recession and its aftermath have battered virtually every state in the nation-and that some of the heaviest blows have landed on states that may loom the largest in the 2012 presidential election."
Ezra Klein, at The Washington Post, highlighted research that studied the uncertainty argument, which holds that the threat of new taxes and regulations is the root of the tepid economic picture.
Bill Adair, at PolitiFact, whose data FiveThirtyEight delved into recently, looked at the Truth-O-Meter ratings amassed by political pundits.
And -- although not technically a -- our very own Nate Silver was interviewed by Howard Kurtz for his CNN show "Reliable Sources." Here is Part 1 and Part 2 of the video.

        
Reads and Reactions
        
Reads and Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads & Reactions
        
Reads and Reactions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (83%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WRITERS (65%); BASEBALL (61%) Reads & Reactions; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Politics

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HERMAN CAIN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011



28 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: How Did the Robot End Up With My Job?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I'VE done a lot of television book interviews lately, and I continue to be struck at what a difference there is in the technology in just a few years' time.
Here is a typical evening at a major cable TV network: arrive at Washington studio and be asked to sign in by a contract security guard. Be met by either a young employee who appears to still be in college or an older person who seems to have hung on with tenure. Have your nose powdered by that person. Have your microphone attached by that person. Be positioned in the studio chair by that person, and then look directly into a robotic camera being manipulated by someone in a control room in New York and speak to whoever the host is wherever he or she is. That's it: one employee, a robot and you.
Think of how many jobs -- makeup artist, receptionist, camera person, producer-director -- have been collapsed into one. I raise this point because there is no doubt that the main reason for our 9.1 percent unemployment rate is the steep drop in aggregate demand in the Great Recession. But it is not the only reason. ''The Great Recession'' is also coinciding with -- and driving -- ''The Great Inflection.'' 
In the last decade, we have gone from a connected world (thanks to the end of the cold war, globalization and the Internet) to a hyperconnected world (thanks to those same forces expanding even faster). And it matters. The connected world was a challenge to blue-collar workers in the industrialized West. They had to compete with a bigger pool of cheap labor. The hyperconnected world is now a challenge to white-collar workers. They have to compete with a bigger pool of cheap geniuses -- some of whom are people and some are now robots, microchips and software-guided machines.
I wrote about the connected world in 2004, arguing that the world had gotten ''flat.'' When I made that argument, though, Facebook barely existed -- and Twitter, cloud computing, iPhones, LinkedIn, iPads, the ''applications'' industry and Skype had either not been invented or were in their infancy. Now they are exploding, taking us from connected to hyperconnected. It is a huge inflection point masked by the Great Recession.
It is also both a huge challenge and opportunity. It has never been harder to find a job and never been easier -- for those prepared for this world -- to invent a job or find a customer. Anyone with the spark of an idea can start a company overnight, using a credit card, while accessing brains, brawn and customers anywhere. It is why Pascal Lamy, chief of the World Trade Organization, argues that terms like ''made in America'' or ''made in China'' are phasing out. The proper term, says Lamy, is ''made in the world.'' More products are designed everywhere, made everywhere and sold everywhere.
The term ''outsourcing'' is also out of date. There is no more ''out'' anymore. Firms can and will seek the best leaders and talent to achieve their goals anywhere in the world. Dov Seidman, is the C.E.O. of LRN, a firm that helps businesses develop principled corporate cultures, and the author of ''How: Why How We Do Anything Means Everything.'' He describes the mind-set of many C.E.O.'s he works with: ''I run a global company with a global mission and one set of shared values in pursuit of global objectives. My employees are all over the world -- more than half outside the U.S. -- and more than half of my revenues and my plans for growth are out there, too. So you tell me: What is out and what is in anymore?''
Matt Barrie, is the founder of freelancer.com, which today lists 2.8 million freelancers offering every service you can imagine. ''The whole world is connecting up now at an incredibly rapid pace,'' says Barrie, and many of these people are coming to freelancer.com to offer their talents. Barrie says he describes this rising global army of freelancers the way he describes his own team: ''They all have Ph.D.'s. They are poor, hungry and driven: P.H.D.''
Barrie offered me a few examples on his site right now: Someone is looking for a designer to design ''a fully functioning dune buggy.'' Forty people are now bidding on the job at an average price of $268. Someone is looking for an architect to design ''a car-washing cafe.'' Thirty-seven people are bidding on that job at an average price of $168. Someone is looking to produce ''six formulations of chewing gum'' suitable for the Australian market. Two people are bidding at an average price of $375. When Barrie needed a five-word speech to accept a Webby Award, he offered $1,000 for the best idea. He got 2,730 entries and accepted ''The Tech Boom Is Back.'' Someone looking for ''a rap song to help Chinese students learn English'' has three bids averaging $157.
Indeed, there is no ''in'' or ''out'' anymore. In the hyperconnected world, there is only ''good'' ''better'' and ''best,'' and managers and entrepreneurs everywhere now have greater access than ever to the better and best people, robots and software everywhere. Obviously, this makes it more vital than ever that we have schools elevating and inspiring more of our young people into that better and best category, because even good might not cut it anymore and average is definitely over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ROBOTICS (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); CLOUD COMPUTING (72%); COLD WAR (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (61%); TABLET COMPUTERS (61%); SMARTPHONES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



29 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; REMIX; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: All's Fair In NYC

BYLINE: By FELIX BURRICHTER

 BODY:
First the Frieze Art Fair announced the inauguration of its New York offshoot, in May 2012. Now, another high-end fair, the Pavilion of Art & Design (or PAD) is coming to New York for the first time, from Nov. 10 to Nov. 14 at the Park Avenue Armory. 
PAD started in Paris in 1997, when it was known by the slightly less catchy name Pavillon des Antiquaires et des Galeries d'Art. In 2007 it introduced its London site. ''Now that we have successfully established PAD in Paris and London, it feels only natural to come to New York,'' says Patrick Perrin, who founded the fair with Stephane Custot.
PAD's emphasis on modern art as well as 19th-, 20th- and 21st-century decorative arts and design reflects its founders' respective areas of expertise: Custot is a partner in Hopkins-Custot gallery in Paris, which specializes in modern and contemporary art; Perrin is a design author and furniture collector and dealer. (He opened both Galerie Perrin, a Parisian gallery for 17th-to-19th-century French furniture, and the famed Salon du Dessin, a fair for Old Master drawings.)
''We love every single kind of art, every single period,'' Perrin exclaimed. ''We're interested in everything - eclecticism is our goal.'' Indeed, there will be what he describes as ''lots of 20th-century paintings, photographs and so-called primitive art,''at the fair's 52 galleries from France, Britain, Germany, Switzerland, Canada and the United States. In addition to 20th-century furnishings by evergreens like Jean Prouve and Charlotte Perriand, there will also be a particularly broad mix of design, from Victorian jewelry (Primavera Gallery, New York) to contemporary furniture by Nendo or Studio Job (Carpenters Workshop Gallery, London).
What led to scheduling PAD in November, outside of the regular New York art fair calendar? ''It's perfect because it's during the fall auction season,'' Perrin explains, ''and it's two weeks before Thanksgiving, so people stay in the city to work.'' Perrin is also confident that the fair's proximity to all the major uptown museums and cultural institutions will help weave it into the uptown cultural circuit. One thing he doesn't want to waste too much time thinking about is whether the current economic climate lends itself to starting an art fair. ''Should we stop breathing?'' Perrin shoots back, almost indignantly. Clearly for him, and for the sophisticated clientele PAD seeks to attract, collecting isn't only about investing - it's in the blood. For more information, go to padny.net.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: September 26, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Fall issue of T Design on the Pavilion of Art & Design New York show incorrectly stated the names of the designers whose work will be shown by the Carpenters Workshop Gallery. They include Sebastian Brajkovic, Mathieu Lehanneur, Robert Stadler, and Charles Trevelyan, not Nendo and Studio Job.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Spheres of influence: Kate Malone's ''An Atomic Spiral Bottle'' from Adrian Sassoon at PAD New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); THANKSGIVING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (73%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



30 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AMID A FINANCIAL CRISIS,
GREEKS TURN TO BARTERING
Several barter networks -- part alternative currency, part barter system, part open-air market -- have cropped up across Greece as a citizenry squeezed by large wage cuts, tax increases and fears about whether the country will continue to use the euro has looked for creative ways to cope. Page 6
FED UP WITH RUSSIAN LIFE
Vladimir V. Putin has already been in power for 12 years -- the first eight as president, the past four as a prime minister with de facto executive power. Now, the prospect of what many Russians are already calling a ''period of stagnation'' has set off a new wave of declarations of nonallegiance to a nation where corruption and an inflexible top-down system are squeezing off options for change and personal advancement. Page 8 
DISCORD OVER A PEACE PRIZE
When the Nobel Prize Committee announced that it was giving its Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo, an imprisoned Chinese dissident writer, a group of patriotic Chinese came up with a rejoinder: they would offer up their own international award, called the Confucius Peace Prize. Now, discord within China may have put the future of that prize in jeopardy. Page 8
National
EXTENDING THE MISERIES
OF HURRICANE IKE
Hurricane Ike, which devastated a wide stretch of Texas three years ago, is considered to be the costliest storm in state history. Adding insult to injury is a state bureaucracy that has paid out less than 10 percent of the $3.1 billion in federal aid it has received. Page 12
NEW TERM, NEW AGENDA
The Supreme Court, which has been focused in recent terms on the rights of corporations and on curbing big lawsuits, returns to the bench this week with a different agenda. Now, criminal justice is at the heart of the court's docket, along with major cases on free speech and religious freedom. Page 13
New York
PUSHING BACK, PROSECUTOR
IS STARTING TO STAND OUT
Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman of New York has maintained a low profile for the state's top law-enforcement officer. But in August, he lost much of his anonymity after rejecting a proposed settlement releasing banks from a lawsuit brought by states claiming misconduct in the mortgage markets. Page 22
Sports
BUSINESSLIKE QUARTERBACK
GUIDES BILLS TO A 3-0 START
It's the most charming story of the N.F.L. season: Ryan Fitzpatrick, who graduated from Harvard, went from thinking of a career on Wall Street to being the starting quarterback for the Buffalo Bills. Aware of the outsize attention his pedigree receives, Fitzgerald has become the emblematic leader of a 3-0 team whose talent has been overlooked. Page 1
DIMINUTIVE BUT DURABLE
Since Oct. 27, 2002, the Jets wide receiver Derrick Mason has defied injury reports and grim prognoses to play in 153 consecutive games -- and 238 over all over 15 seasons, the most by a receiver 5 feet 10 inches or shorter. It's this durability that has made the 37-year-old Mason one of the league's most productive receivers. Page 2
Obituaries
ROBERT WHITAKER, 71
He photographed the Beatles, including the cover for the album ''Yesterday and Today'' that was pulled from view by Capitol Records following protests that the picture was in bad taste. He aimed his camera up Salvador Dali's nostrils in search of a surrealist effect. His pictures were displayed at Britain's National Portrait Gallery. Page 20
Sunday Business
PROFITS BUT LITTLE JOY
AT MERRILL LYNCH
When Merrill Lynch collapsed into the arms of Bank of America in late 2008, the deal remade the face of Wall Street. Nearly three years later, what is now Bank of America Merrill Lynch is doing surprisingly well. But the company as a whole is groaning under the weight of many billions of dollars in bad home mortgages, most of them inherited from Countrywide Financial, which it acquired in 2008. Page 1
DYSFUNCTION TO INNOVATION
Unemployment in Los Angeles County is 12.5 percent, one of the highest rates among the country's major metropolitan areas. But dysfunction can breed innovation and the efforts made by Los Angeles to solve its woes could provide a road map for other ailing areas.
Automobiles
WEIGHING THREE TONS,
STILL LOOKING LIKE A STAR
The Bentley Mulsanne weighs almost 6,000 pounds and measures nearly 220 inches in length. But it manages to look tasteful, avoiding the chrome-Panzer strut of the Rolls-Royce Phantom and the soulless-limo look of the Mercedes Maybach. Sports, Page 12
Magazine
WHY DOES IT MATTER
THAT FAMILIES EAT TOGETHER?
It is an article of American faith that family meals are important. Social science underscores our secular belief. Children who eat with their families have stronger vocabularies than those who do not. They do better in school. But what happens to those who simply cannot manage to join the roughly 50 percent of Americans who eat with their families every day? PAGE 40
DIMMING OF THE LONE STAR
Texans love Texas in a way that can border on the pathological, writes Mimi Swartz, but the possibility of a President Rick Perry has brought about a strange and never-before-seen turn of events: Texans are bragging about how bad things are in their home state. PAGE 13
Book Review
A JAM SESSION
AS A RIOT FEVER BUILDS
William Kennedy's new novel, ''Chango's Beads and Two-Tone Shoes,'' is his most musical work of fiction: a polyrhythmic contemplation of time and its effects on passion. Even as a riot fever builds, Mr. Kennedy understands that a riot is a block-by-block phenomenon that doesn't necessarily shut down the opera. PAGE 1
IN HIS OWN IMAGE
In ''Caravaggio,'' Andrew Graham-Dixon contends that the artist's disturbing work was a reflection of his life. Caravaggio's prime subject was the squalor, violence and energy of Roman street life, and he produced the startling ''Resurrection'' altarpiece while wanted for murder. PAGE 19
Editorial
THE SUPERCOMMITTEE
FACES A STARK CHOICE
The joint committee created by the debt-ceiling agreement is desperately groping behind closed doors for ways to cut at least $1.2 trillion from the federal deficit. If the two sides cannot agree, there will be automatic cuts that would severely reduce military and security spending. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
ANTITERROR MEASURES
Ten years after the 9/11 attacks, files released by the F.B.I. under the Freedom of Information Act show that the government's bloated terrorist watch list remains a flawed security tool in need of greater transparency and accountability. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
BAN ON LOBBYIST GIFTS
On his first day in office, President Obama struck a blow for better government with his executive order banning political appointees from accepting gifts from lobbyists. Now the administration is rightly proposing to extend the ban to all 2.6 million career federal workers. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
TALKING ABOUT DORITOS
Arch West, the father of Doritos, died Sept. 20, but what many fans may not realize is that Doritos are a mighty literary device. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 10
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
As the Supreme Court gets ready to go into session, its six Roman Catholic justices were set to merge church and state by attending the traditional first-Sunday-in-October Red Mass at St. Matthew's Cathedral. Justice Antonin Scalia's latest lapse of judgment involves poking his nose in a local legal wrangle about the Catholic University dorms. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
We are now living in a world where outsourcing and average are definitely out. White-collar workers now have to compete with a bigger pool of cheap geniuses -- some of whom are people and some are now robots, microchips and software-guided machines. This is both a huge challenge and opportunity. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The ''Occupy Wall Street'' movement, reminiscent of the Tahrir Square protests in Cairo, is inspiring, but it lacks specific demands. For those who want to channel their amorphous frustration into practical demands, several specific suggestions are made. SUNDAY REVIEW, PAGE 11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); ATHLETES (84%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MISCONDUCT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (68%); WRITERS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GREECE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



31 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN LOCAL INTELLIGENCE; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: The Kennedy Tunnel

BYLINE: By LOUISE RAFKIN. 
louise@louiserafkin.com

 BODY:
Just off Old Tunnel Road in Oakland, a stone and brass-plated marker attests to the former use of a nearby hillside. In the early 1900s, a tunnel through the hill linked Oakland and Lafayette, allowing horse-drawn and pedestrian traffic between the two growing communities. Cars used it, too. The tunnel closed in the 1940s, but a flagpole marks the entrance to this once-bustling locale. TUNNEL VISION 
In the 1800s, buggies traversing the steep grades of the Berkeley Hills often tumbled and crashed. Oakland merchants pushed for the tunnel, first begun by Chinese workers digging by hand in 1870, to lure flush Contra Costa shoppers.
BUMPS IN THE ROAD
Lafayette residents protested the tunnel, predicting that it would increase competition for land and price them out of the market. But private and county money eventually financed a tunnel. Opened in 1903, it had a four-foot elbow in the middle; diggers had miscalculated the meet-up.
BY ANY NAME
The tunnel was variously called the Kennedy Tunnel, the Inter-County Tunnel and the Broadway Tunnel. At the east entrance, a residence owned by the East Bay Regional Park District stands on the former site of the Canary Cottage cafe.
A REAL JAM
In 1937, the Caldecott Tunnel opened, a three-bore tunnel designed to replace the dark, dank, single-bore Kennedy Tunnel 300 feet above it. At that time, some 30,000 cars were passing through Kennedy every week. Traffic was bad; waits could be long. Now 160,000 vehicles travel the Caldecott daily. Traffic is bad; waits can be long. A fourth bore is in the works.
HIDDEN TREASURES
Caldecott diggers found bones of an ancient rhino and a three-toed dwarf horse. Once that tunnel opened, the Kennedy was used mostly by pedestrians; it was sealed for safety reasons in 1947.
SPACE INVADERS
Starting in 1910, the Mahogany Eucalyptus and Land Company planted thousands of flammable, nonnative eucalyptus trees throughout the Oakland hills, including around the tunnel. During the Depression, unemployed workers were paid to cut down the combustible invaders; surviving trees fueled Oakland's 1991 firestorm.
CAVE DWELLERS
Members of the Suicide Club, a group of urban spelunkers that was founded in the 1970s, have secretly explored the Bay Area's abandoned tunnels for years. Despite chronicled efforts, no one has claimed to have entered the Kennedy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The site of the Oakland entrance of the former Kennedy Tunnel, a onetime thoroughfare used by 30,000 cars a week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); COUNTIES (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); SUICIDE (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



32 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: This Crisis Has 17 Moving Parts

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
ON WEDNESDAY, the eyes of the financial world turned to Finland.
Finland?
For all its virtues, that small Nordic country hasn't grabbed much global attention lately. But thanks to the quirky political and economic structure of Europe, last week Finland had the power to send financial markets into a tailspin.
As it turned out, the Finns didn't throw a wrench into the financial gears. But that they were in a position to do so provided yet another reason for shaken investors to hide in the nearest bunker. 
How did it come to this?
The euro zone has been a source of global instability for months. In the latest episode, Finland, which has an impeccable credit rating, was asked to approve a measure that would aid its improvident southern neighbor, Greece. The Finnish Parliament had grave reservations -- it is already contemplating writing off some of its direct loans to Greece. But mindful of the possible consequences, the Finns voted to strengthen a European bailout fund, the inelegantly named European Financial Stability Facility.
That got world markets through Wednesday, but it hardly ended the European financial crisis -- even this phase of it. The next day, it was Germany's turn. After weeks of fierce debate, Parliament passed the measure in a 523-to-85 vote. On Friday, Austria gave its approval. And between now and Oct. 11, Cyprus, Estonia, Malta, the Netherlands and Slovakia will all have their say.
After that, if all 17 euro zone countries have granted approval, the newly empowered 440 billion euro fund (about $600 billion) will be available to give Greece some succor.
''There are a lot of moving parts and a lot could go wrong,'' said David J. Kostin, the chief United States investment strategist for Goldman Sachs. ''And these macro issues are dominating micro ones like whether a particular company in the S.& P. is having a strong quarter -- and many of them are.''
For months now, investors have been putting money in a traditional haven -- the United States Treasury market, whose appeal has been burnished by the accommodative monetary policies of the Federal Reserve.
For stocks, though, a vicious circle has developed. The global economy is weak, and stocks worldwide have trended downward.
''The direction of the markets is being determined by geopolitical uncertainty on three continents,'' Mr. Kostin said. China's possible slowdown, the disappointing economy in the United States and the European financial crisis are all weighing on the markets, he said, with the European predicament likely to be front and center over the next several weeks.
In the case of the European Financial Stability Facility, political leaders and central bankers involved in the rescue effort already appeared to know it wouldn't be enough to resolve the crisis. A vastly greater financial commitment is needed to prevent the crisis from spreading, many analysts say.
The European Central Bank may use some of the fund's money as collateral for making larger loans, effectively ''leveraging'' the fund and giving it more firepower, but the bank's powers are circumscribed. Any further fundamental changes must also be approved, one by one, by each country in the monetary union.
That is because the euro zone is not a fiscal union or a sovereign state, and its founders didn't prepare for the eventuality that one of its members might be unable to pay its bills -- threatening the stability of banks, countries and markets worldwide. Furthermore, as things stand, it's not clear that the European Union is capable of achieving even the level of governance -- some would call it dysfunction -- that has lately characterized the United States. This helps explain why the European crisis has, if anything, been even harder to resolve than the still-simmering one on this side of the Atlantic, and why these linked crises are not about to disappear anytime soon.
On the American side, with unemployment at 9.1 percent and the economy growing at an anemic rate, Congress and the White House have been unable to agree on another fiscal stimulus plan -- or even on whether further fiscal stimulus is wise. And a Congressional special panel must find $1.2 trillion in budget cuts in time for a Nov. 23 deadline, or else the government will make across-the-board cuts to achieve those savings.
For its part, the Fed has been engaging in monetary stimulus. Its latest foray into unorthodox policy making, known as Operation Twist, is explicitly aimed at lowering bond yields. Because prices and yields move in opposite directions, the Fed's avowed policy is contributing to a long-running bond market rally.
That implies further problems for the stock market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch suggested in a research note last week. ''There can be no bull market in equities in the medium term without a bear market in bonds,'' the note said.
With the threat of another recession high, the stock market has been volatile and range-bound and is likely to stay that way until the bond market rally ends, said Michael Hartnett, chief global equity strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. For that to happen, he said, it ''would mean that Bernanke & Company will win the war against deflation, which is obviously what they've been up to the last couple of years.'' Such a victory ''would go hand in hand with much better economic conditions,'' he said, and demand for riskier assets like stocks would rise.
For now, though, uncertainty reigns, not only in Europe and the United States but also in the Chinese economy, where efforts to curb inflation may also be throttling growth. Still, Mr. Kostin said, the profit outlook remains strong among the global corporations that dominate the Standard & Poor's 500. He expects that the index will rise in the fourth quarter -- closing modestly higher, at 1,250.
But in today's global economy, many little things can easily go wrong. If they do, he said, investing in stocks, particularly in individual stocks, is likely to be very difficult.
''The macro story is dominant,'' he said. And it hasn't been a very upbeat story.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (90%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (90%); CYPRUS (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); MALTA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



33 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DESIGN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: When 'Glass Ceiling' Is a Positive

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
THE craze for panoramas swept America in the 1840s, inspiring both P. T. Barnum and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
Panoramas of the era were giant realistic paintings of exotic landscapes, unscrolled on rollers to the accompaniment of piano music. They astonished audiences, much as IMAX films did some 150 years later.
Americans have repeatedly indulged in big views ever since: picture windows in the ranch house, CinemaScope at the drive-in, wide screen television in the media room.
A similar passion for the wider view may be taking shape in automobiles. Huge double sunroofs are growing more popular. They offer a view of the sky that attracts about as many car buyers as those who get navigation units, at a cost roughly equivalent to the $1,500 that is the car salesman's rule of thumb for leather seats. 
The Web site of an auto industry publication, Wardsauto.com, recently reported that 31 percent of vehicles are bought with a sunroof today, while a decade ago only about 20 percent had one.
Ford says orders for its expansive Vista Roof option are double what had been projected; in two crossover models, the Edge and Explorer, half of the buyers spent the extra money for it. The option is also available on the Lincoln MKX.
Gerry McGovern, head of design at Land Rover, said panoramic roofs made a vehicle's interior seem larger, opening it to the outside world.
''They bring in the urban ambiance,'' Mr. McGovern said. (He has given the new Land Rover Evoque a very large sunroof.) The notion is not a new one: publicity for the De Soto Skyview taxicabs of the 1940s and '50s promoted their open roofs as an attraction to city visitors.
New types of glass have helped make the trend possible. Today's glass is treated to filter out ultraviolet and reduce heat load, lowering the demand on air-conditioning systems.
Ceiling glass can also make tightly packed interiors seem more attractive, designers say -- a benefit to companies trying to meet new fuel economy standards by selling smaller cars.
Passenger vehicles must meet federal safety standards, no matter what type of roof. Panoramic roofs have also fared well in independent tests.
''We have tested a couple of vehicles with panoramic-style sunroofs,'' Russ Rader, vice president for communications of the Insurance Institute of Highway Safety, said in an e-mail. ''There is no indication that these roof designs aren't as strong as roofs without them.''
He added: ''However, this doesn't mean that vehicles with glass roof panels would be as safe in rollovers as vehicles without them.'' Glass roofs could break or pop out.
Sunroofs are being sold with the sort of breathless marketing language once reserved for a new engine or transmission. The trade names applied to the panoramic roof systems promise the heavens: Command View, UltraView and perhaps the best, Magic Sky, from Mercedes-Benz. These names awaken memories of the Oldsmobile Vista Cruiser station wagons of the 1960s and 1970s, with their angled roof windows inspired by Vista-Dome railroad cars.
The roofs are getting bigger. The latest version of Cadillac's UltraView sunroof, available on the SRX crossover and CTS models, has grown on the new model: the SRX's sunroof covers 70 percent of the roof area and has a power retractable shade. Volkswagen says that the glass roof of the 2012 Beetle is 80 percent larger than its predecessor's and that it blocks 99 percent of the ultraviolet radiation and 92 percent of the heat energy.
The Volkswagen EOS even offers a sunroof within its folding hard top. ''It is an upscale feature,'' said Rainer Michel, vice president for product marketing and strategy at Volkswagen of America.
''You don't have to give up the outside entirely when the top is up,'' he said. The large sunroof appears to link with the windshield, turning the whole roof into a sheet of glass, Mr. Michel said.
Acura says that the panoramic window of its slope-backed ZDX crossover is the largest in the industry. But the most dramatic and extreme treatment may be that of the Jaguar XJ sedan, whose glass sweeps from the windshield to the rear deck and is the key to the car's visual identity.
Jaguar explains that the XJ roof, unlike a conventional sunroof, has a front section that opens upward and outward to prevent any loss of headroom. There are twin electric blinds for privacy.
The roofs of some cars with panoramic glass -- the Kia Optima is an example -- are painted in dark reflective colors or covered with materials designers call foils to give the impression of a roof made entirely of glass. The appeal may be more fashion than function, as with the vogue of the 1950s, when some models had their entire upper bodies painted white to simulate convertibles.
But there is also genuinely new technology overhead.
The Magic Sky glass roof on the folding hardtop of the 2012 Mercedes-Benz SLK roadster changes from dark to clear at the touch of a button. Voltage passing through particles in the glass causes them to realign, lightening or darkening the roof. (A panorama roof with permanently dark-tinted glass is also available.)
According to Mercedes, the technology is based on the physics of a plate condenser: when voltage is applied to the glass, the embedded particles position themselves to let light to pass through the glass. If the voltage remains switched off, the particles position themselves randomly, blocking the light, and the glass remains dark. The price of this option is $2,500.
Light from above signals luxury. The romantic appeal of the panoramic roof may be suggested by a BMW television advertisement that shows the driver refilling his coffee mug from a low-flying military tanker aircraft. A recent Volvo spot showed happy vehicles with their roofs open at night, light shining upward.
Lincoln counts the panoramic roof as a luxury feature and promises that future models will be distinguished from garden-variety Fords by large sliding-glass roof panels. But Ford, too, is emphasizing glass in future models.
The Evos, a design study introduced at the Frankfurt auto show last month that serves as a summary of the Ford brand's future design language, offers a band of glass in the roof.
''It runs from windshield to backlight, but we put in a couple of chicanes,'' Ford's vice president for design, J Mays, said.
Not all panoramic roofs have to be glass or high-tech. The Fiat 500 offers an optional folding canvas roof, evocative of the 1950s. The Jeep Liberty also offers a canvas roof, the Sky Slider.
Perhaps only one step remains in the evolution of the panoramic roof: no glass at all.
The Pantheon in Rome, considered one of the greatest buildings in the world, offers a sunroof: a 30-foot hole in the dome. It brings in light and not much more than an occasional sprinkle of rain onto the backs of pigeons beneath.
It also has a cool Latin name, ideal for marketing: oculus.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR HEAVENS' SAKE: Kia Optima has two glass panels, one of which slides over the other.
LOOKING UP: Acura says its ZDX crossover, top, has the largest panoramic window on the market. The Lincoln MKX, center and above, offers an expansive Vista Roof.
 TANNING OPTIONS: VW Eos has a sunroof in its retractable hardtop. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROOFING MATERIALS (88%); MUSIC (77%); TRENDS (75%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FILM (72%); WOMEN (68%); INSURANCE (62%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



34 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT MIDTOWN MANHATTAN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: For the Love Of Swatches And Craft

BYLINE: By HUGH RYAN

 BODY:
THE stores are already stuffed with polar fleece, Gore-Tex and Thinsulate. But as temperatures dip, one unassuming shop in Midtown Manhattan has everything needed to weather an old-fashioned winter in the oldest of ways -- though you should start sewing now. It's the City Quilter, the heart of New York's quilting community for nearly 15 years and a destination for fabric lovers from around the world.
If ''city quilter'' sounds like an oxymoron, be advised: The more than 4,000 fabrics it stocks are not all granny prints in periwinkle and dusty rose. With kitschy, retro-1950s textiles and colorful batik patterns, the store walks the modern edge of a traditional form, creating a distinctly New York take on an American craft. Nearly all of its fabrics are cotton, which is easy to work with and wash. And the store sells a variety of fat quarters, or quarter-yard swatches, that are ideal for quilting. 
On a recent Tuesday, City Quilter, on 25th Street between Seventh Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, was a quiet whirlwind of scissors, sewing machines and voices in a half-dozen languages.
''This place is very well known,'' said Jean-Claude Becker, a retired research doctor whose mother, Mauricette Bensoussan, was visiting from Paris for her 80th birthday. At the cutting table in the front, Mrs. Bensoussan, an avid quilter, handed a dozen bolts of brightly patterned fabric to a shop assistant as her son converted metric measurements and hand gestures into inches and yards.
''She landed yesterday, and here we are, first day,'' Dr. Becker said.
Deeper inside the shop, Sarah Cubbage, the assistant costume designer for the coming Broadway revival of ''Godspell,'' compared fabrics for a dance number. ''I love the City Quilter,'' said Ms. Cubbage, 31. ''It's a must-know of the fabric district.''
Like many patrons, she is not a quilter. But the helpful staff and easy-to-navigate shelves keep her coming back. It also helps that the store sells patterns and supplies for making all kinds of non-quilt items, including handbags and toys.
Cathy Izzo and Dale Riehl, the married couple who own and operate the store, worked in television before opening the shop in 1997. Though Ms. Izzo had quilted as a hobby, neither had any formal sewing training. Perhaps this explains the almost evangelical zeal they have for bringing fellow urbanites into the quilting fold. City Quilter offers nearly 50 courses a year, from one-day seminars on silk ribbon embroidery to multisession instruction on quilting techniques. They have also designed their own line of fabrics that draws inspiration from New York images: the subway map, the Lower Manhattan skyline, vintage postcards of local landmarks.
Despite the economic downturn and the fabric industry's move from brick-and-mortar stores to online sales, City Quilter has expanded over the years. In April, it opened an art-quilt gallery in an adjacent storefront; as the American Folk Art Museum has grappled with budget problems and surrendered exhibition space, the gallery has provided a much-needed place to display high-end quilting.
''It is very unique, and a huge risk for them; they should really be celebrated for it,'' said Paula Nadelstern, a quilting artist whose name translates from German as ''needle star.''
Ms. Nadelstern, 60, is a member of the Manhattan Quilters Guild, whose group show, ''Material Witness,'' will be on display in the gallery from Nov. 15 through Jan. 7. A native of the Bronx, she is one of the most celebrated members of the art-quilt movement, and has shown her work in museums across the country. She has been a regular at City Quilter since it opened.
But quilters do not have to be experienced to get the most out of the shop. City Quilter aims to serve all types of do-it-yourselfers, whether they are novices or artists.
''You just don't know who's going to walk through that door,'' Ms. Nadelstern said. ''A lawyer, a doctor or someone who works at McDonald's. It's a gamut.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); FABRICS (90%); METRIC SYSTEM (78%); TEXTILES (77%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (70%); RELIGION (69%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (63%)

COMPANY: YORK WALLCOVERINGS INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2679 CONVERTED PAPER & PAPERBOARD PRODUCTS, NEC (84%); SIC2672 COATED & LAMINATED PAPER, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



35 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: 'American Dreamers'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Reviewing ''American Dreamers,'' Michael Kazin's paean to the country's radical left, Beverly Gage echoes Kazin by including the abolition of slavery among the great achievements of leftists -- an example of their ''utopian spirit'' (Sept. 18). Such radicals did call for abolition, but radicals of a very different sort -- thinkers who offered a new understanding of how societies hang together and prosper without the centralized commands that Kazin's leftists so extol -- also lent their influential voices to the cause of abolition. These radicals were classical economists. 
It was economists' prominence in the abolition movement that led Thomas Carlyle, in an 1849 essay, to defend slavery and ridicule economists as ''rueful'' thinkers, each of whom ''finds the secret of this universe in 'supply and demand,' and reduces the duty of human governors to that of letting men alone.'' Economists' advocacy of freedom, even for slaves, so incensed Carlyle that he gave it, in the same essay, a nickname that -- considering its provenance -- economists should forever wear proudly: the ''dismal science.''
DONALD J. BOUDREAUX Fairfax, Va. The writer is a professor of economics at George Mason University.
To the Editor:
Beverly Gage writes, ''We might as well call it: The American left is dead,'' adding that ''the left is in crisis because its animating vision -- of a world transformed through socialism -- has all but collapsed.''
According to a Gallup Poll released in February 2010, ''More than one-third of Americans (36 percent) have a positive image of 'socialism.' '' An April 2009 Rasmussen Reports poll said: ''Only 53 percent of American adults believe capitalism is better than socialism. The latest Rasmussen Reports national telephone survey found that 20 percent disagree and say socialism is better.''
The fact that such a large minority in the United States favors socialism is significant when we consider that no one with national name recognition has advocated socialism for a generation. Many of the countries that retain AAA credit ratings with both Standard & Poor's and Moody's are social democracies, among them Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. These countries have less public debt as a percentage of gross domestic product than the United States.
JOHN ENGELMAN Wilmington, Del.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (85%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%) DELAWARE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FINLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (50%); DENMARK (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



36 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN ORANGE, CONN.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: For Nature Lovers Who Also Shop-Hop

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH it is 70 miles from Manhattan in New Haven County, Orange may not seem New England-quaint from a car stuck in traffic on the Boston Post Road, where a mishmash of signs for chain stores alternates with a tangle of telephone wires.
But veer off that busy commercial route and you will encounter the rolling and picturesque fields, with grazing cows and stalks of corn, that inspired the town seal on Orange's street signs: an ox-drawn plow, steered by a farmer.
Three percent of its 17-square-mile area is regularly used for crops or cattle, according to the Center for Land Use Education and Research at the University of Connecticut, though town officials put the total slightly higher (counting land owned by farmers but not cultivated). In contrast, Derby next door seems more densely settled but has 5 percent, and even Woodbridge, known for its suburbia, has almost 3 percent.
Yet the farms take pride of place, and Orange's agricultural bona fides are hard to ignore. For instance, Field View, which has been in continuous operation since 1639, ranks among the oldest farms in the country. It spreads out along Route 34, an east-west artery. Treat Farm encourages passers-by to drop in, as on a recent morning when it was bustling with shoppers for tomatoes, apples and butternut squash. 
And in mid-September there is the Orange Country Fair, which has been held periodically since the 19th century. A dominant feature of the social calendar, it offers tractor pulls and needlecraft contests for its large crowds.
Over the years, some of Orange's farmland has been lost to housing developments, though proponents of the town's rural character were doubtless heartened by two recent events.
The first, in 2010, was the decision by Stew Leonard's, the area grocery chain, to abandon its goal of building a supermarket near Interstate 95, after 14 years of pushing the idea. Neighbors worried about traffic had mounted legal challenges, though other residents had welcomed the jobs and tax dollars the store might have brought.
The other news, this summer, was Orange's decision to buy some of the campus of Hubbell, a manufacturer of electrical products that has relocated to Shelton. That campus, on the Wilbur Cross Parkway, is well known to travelers because Hubbell's logo is spelled out with green shrubs on a roadside lawn. Hubbell had proposed 226 units of affordable housing for the site. But in a referendum in July, residents voted to buy 377 of its 423 acres for $7.1 million. This fall the town is to build an entrance near Turkey Hill Road, so the land can be used for recreation.
Even though officials say the purchase will increase property tax bills by a few hundred dollars a year, it was the right thing to do, said Paul Ballas, a resident who teaches high school math in Monroe. If houses had been built on the Hubbell property, he said, that might have put a drain on the schools, and besides, getting to walk his beagle-Boston terrier mix along forested paths is a pleasure. ''It seems like a nice amenity to have down the road,'' he said.
In 2007, Mr. Ballas was living in his parents' house in Milford, where he grew up, but wanted more space than that town's backyards seemed to offer. He and his wife, Mary, also a teacher, briefly considered Guilford, but commuting from there would have required crossing the slow-poke Q Bridge in New Haven, on Interstate 95.
Orange is closer to their work, and they also found a 1,000-square-foot ranch with an acre of wooded property. ''People would come over and eat on the deck for barbecues and think they were in Vermont,'' Mr. Ballas said.
But the Ballases' love of greenery doesn't preclude a liking for all that the Post Road provides. ''My wife said, 'Don't take me away from Trader Joe's and Home Depot,' '' Mr. Ballas said. ''And I also like the shops.''
The couple traded up last spring, paying $445,000 for a 3,000-square-foot modern Cape. The ranch had cost them $350,000 in 2007, and even though they were able to recoup only $310,000 when they resold, Mr. Ballas still believes Orange is a good investment -- seeing the poor economy as the overall culprit.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
A landlocked community with a population of about 14,000, Orange has residential neighborhoods in its middle and retail strips along its edges.
A row of well-kept historic houses overlook Orange Center Road, especially at its northern end, where white colonials with dark shutters are set back along a grassy ridge. The prevailing housing type, though, is the ranch, because that style was in vogue in the post-World War II period when much of the town was developed as a Bridgeport and New Haven suburb.
Today some residents commute into New York City. Sean Nappi, who has been traveling daily to Manhattan from the Milford station for six years, works for an insurance company in Midtown. He gets up at 5:30 every morning, ''which comes quick,'' he says, and is often not home until 7:30 p.m.
Many more work nearby. They would venture farther afield, brokers say, if the town added a station on Metro-North's New Haven line -- a plan that Gov. Dannel P. Malloy supports.
The ranches vary in style, and most are on three-quarter-acre lots. Some with a midcentury look face Treat Lane; fancier ones, partially clad in imitation stone, are found on Hyland Terrace.
Newer colonials, their front doors flanked by mounted lamps, line Old Silo Road, and Heritage Hill Road has bulging hipped-roof houses on a cul-de-sac.
Among the handful of condominiums is Fieldstone Village, a 55-and-over development rising from a dusty former Field View Farm parcel. Units are built as they are sold, and so far, just 20 of 142 are standing, said Kathleen Samul, a spokeswoman for the project, which was built by the Sunrise Development Group. ''People are challenged by selling their existing homes,'' Ms. Samul said, adding that Sunrise recently began offering smaller and discounted condos starting at $379,900.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In mid-September, 90 single-family homes were for sale, at an average price of $426,000, according to the Connecticut Statewide Multiple Listing Service. They ranged from a 4,000-square-foot colonial on three acres with an in-ground pool, for $937,000, to a two-bedroom 1937 Cape, in need of a renovation, for $180,000.
And they may represent a relative bargain. From January to August, 54 homes sold, at an average of $355,000, according to the same listing service. Over the same time frame in 2006, 88 homes sold, at an average of $460,000. This puts prices down more than 20 percent.
Janet C. Kasowitz, a sales associate with William Raveis Real Estate, says banks' tight lending standards have deterred buyers. ''Even pretty qualified people with secure jobs are having a hard time getting mortgages,'' she said. ''That's a big chunk of the population that's unable to buy.''
WHAT TO DO
Besides books, the Case Memorial Library features art by local painters and one-man performances; recently it presented a show about Teddy Roosevelt.
This summer Amy Storz, a school psychologist who has lived in town since 2001, put her son, Gavin, 6, in the reading program there, and he became a voracious participant, she said.
She has also taken Gavin and her daughter, Ava, 2, to Buttermilk Lane farm, where they were allowed to hold baby goats. All these throwback-type activities ''symbolize the old-fashioned family values of Orange,'' said Ms. Storz, although she admits to going to New Haven for good restaurant meals.
THE SCHOOLS
Kindergartners attend the Mary L. Tracy School, and first through sixth grades are taught at Turkey Hill, Race Brook and Peck Place. Last year on state exams, the best showings were at Race Brook School, where 93 percent of fourth graders met standards in math, 86 percent in reading and 91 percent in writing, versus 67, 63 and 66 percent statewide.
Amity Regional Middle School is in Orange, while Amity Regional High School, which serves three towns, is in Woodbridge. SAT averages last year were 554 in math, 557 in reading and 570 in writing, versus 510, 505 and 510 statewide.
THE COMMUTE
The closest station is on the Metro-North New Haven line in Milford, about 15 minutes away by car. From there, seven trains travel to Grand Central Terminal each weekday morning from 6 to 8. Trips take 84 to 105 minutes. Monthly fares are $353, or $345.94 online.
THE HISTORY
Between 1871 and the Great Depression, a freight and passenger railroad line weaving through Orange prompted the founding of Tyler City, a bohemian enclave near the site of the Orange Hills Country Club, said Bob Belletzkie, a local historian.
In 1890, 10,000 people descended on Tyler City for a multiday party to advocate for what was essentially an early version of the Civil Rights Act, according to Mr. Belletzkie. Tyler City was known as ''a place you could get out of the city and speak your mind,'' he said. Today there is almost no trace of the railroad; some of its timbers were used to build the small strip mall on Orange Center Road.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PEACE-SEEKING: The Weepawaug Conservation Area abuts the busy Wilbur Cross Parkway in Orange, where the bucolic often contrasts with the commercial. The town has residential neighborhoods in its middle and retail strips along its edges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITIES (71%); SUBURBS (68%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); RELOCATIONS (62%); REFERENDUMS (60%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (50%)

COMPANY: STEW LEONARD'S LLC (53%); HUBBELL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%)

TICKER: HUBB (NYSE) (52%); HUBA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335932 NONCURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335121 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC LIGHTING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



37 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: One Building, Three Generations

 BODY:
In Metropolitan's cover article last week, Sarah Kramer profiled a 12-member, three-generation family that shares a building in Chinatown. More than 125 readers posted comments on NYTimes.com; below is a sampling. Readers also waged a spirited debate over the Big City column by Ginia Bellafante, who lamented the ineffectuality of demonstrators who have gathered in Lower Manhattan to protest Wall Street greed and malfeasance.
What a wonderful story. The Lees are a great example of a family living together, helping each other out and enjoying their lives smack dab in the center of Manhattan. May they thrive. Wish my family were like this! 
Tom Graves,
Tokyo
Nice story, but so unrealistic. I think many of us would like to live with extended family if we had 10,000 square feet of prime real estate in which to do so.
Islandmommy,
Staten Island, N.Y.
So here's the silver lining to our failing economy and corrupt system of government. We'll all soon be living much closer to our relatives, in the same homes likely, as the security net is slid out from under us. As painful as it sounds to be so desperate, we might just find in each other's company the satisfaction we once sought in consumerism.
Ginger K.,
New Orleans, La.
I don't think it's ''great'' at all. If it takes 18 people living under one roof to attain the American Dream, it's not for me. Peace, quiet and privacy are the American Dream to me in a house of MY OWN. Surrounded by kids, babies, the elderly, teenagers 24/7 is not the AMERICAN DREAM FOR AMERICANS.
Julie Gallo,
New York, N.Y.
Idealism vs. Capitalism
This condescending article reminds me of a Gandhi quote: ''First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.'' The Times seems to be moving from ignoring to laughing at the protesters, which is progress, I guess. It's been interesting to see how long the mainstream media ignored the protesters, despite arrests and police harassment of peaceful citizens exercising their civil rights all week long now.
Dub,
CT
Sadly, the parade or carnival of these protests of idealists is a replay of the same thing in the '60s. The marches against war, greed, etc., led only to where we are today. Why? Because after the parade and the carnival, real life takes over and not enough people stick around to do the long and hard work needed to effect change.
TibetanPhotoProject,
Fort Bragg, Calif.
How discouraging. They can't develop a cohesive message because their entire lives have been focused on creating individual bubbles of existence focused on ''me,'' ''me'' and ''me.'' Please don't label them progressives or liberals or anything else. They're just angry and confused kids.
Trillian,
New York City
The young people protesting on Wall Street might not have a cohesive message, but they instinctively realize that there is something wrong with the current system. The rampant greed and rapaciousness of the casino operators on Wall Street and in corporate boardrooms is bit by bit destroying the fabric of society. Money and power are the only values held in any esteem. Human charity and empathy for one's fellow citizens are considered to be virtues for the weak. The objectivist philosophy of Ayn Rand permeates throughout the corridors of power and the media. It is good to finally see young people expressing concern for the future of this country. They realize that there is more to life than accumulation of wealth.
Vincenyt,
New Jersey
If it was such a non-event, why were 80 people arrested?
Patroklos,
Los Angeles

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



38 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Two Routes To Solving The Jobs Puzzle

BYLINE: By NICOLE LAPORTE

 BODY:
Los Angeles
THE electric car company is based in China. The noodle factory was founded decades ago by a Chinese immigrant. The two businesses may have China in common, but they represent two different ways of looking at the jobs crisis in this city.
Half a century ago, Los Angeles was a dominant economic force in various respects, with its formidable military contracting industry, for example, and a garment trade that rivaled that of New York. Today, unemployment in Los Angeles County is 12.5 percent, one of the highest rates among the country's major metropolitan areas. The recession walloped industries like manufacturing and retailing that have traditionally been strong in the city. 
Now, Los Angeles is more like an ''Athens by the Pacific,'' Joel Kotkin, a professor of urban development at Chapman University, has written, comparing the city to modern-day Greece. But dysfunction can breed innovation. As Los Angeles works to solve its economic woes, it could provide a road map for other ailing metropolises, said Austin Beutner, the city's former first deputy mayor and chief executive for economic and business policy. Mr. Beutner, who was once an investment banker, left his city posts last spring so he could work full time on campaigning to succeed Antonio Villaraigosa as mayor in 2013.
In tackling the city's jobs deficit, Mr. Beutner asked: Can the city's sheer size and complexity be turned into an asset? He maintains that it can -- provided that the bureaucracy that usually goes along with those qualities can be tamed.
To explain, he points to BYD Auto (the initials stand for Build Your Dream), a Chinese electric car company that was recently scouting for a site for its United States headquarters. Los Angeles, with its heavy population of drivers and its relative proximity to Asia, might have seemed a natural choice.
But when Mr. Beutner sat down to meet with BYD executives about the matter, he was told that the city was off the list. When he asked why, ''they took out a 12-inch stack of rules and regulations, things I didn't understand, and I think were equally unintelligible to them,'' he said in a recent interview.
He offered to start over with BYD. Los Angeles couldn't compete on cash incentives, so he came up with enticements that tapped into the city's wide array of resources. BYD could showcase one of its cars at the Los Angeles International Airport, which is city-owned. A Hollywood celebrity would be asked to drive a BYD car to the mayor's annual Oscars party. Finally, a collaboration between the city-owned utility company and government inspection agencies would guarantee that battery chargers were installed in customers' homes within a week.
''Long story short, they're coming,'' Mr. Beutner said. The decision is resulting in an estimated 150 jobs.
Los Angeles County has a population of more than nine million, and this market size should be used to lure more businesses, Mr. Beutner said. And the area's diverse resources, from its universities to the creative capital of its entertainment industry, should be harnessed to work with city government, he said. ''We're not using the assets we have, not thinking creatively how the public and private can work together,'' he said.
Mr. Kotkin says he thinks a different approach to attracting jobs -- one that focuses on the city's small, local communities, as opposed to its vast size -- would be more fruitful. ''He's a deal-maker, but we don't need deals,'' he said of Mr. Beutner. ''That doesn't strike me as the way to build the L.A. economy. He has an investment-banker mentality.''
(In his defense, Mr. Beutner said, ''What I learned in the world of finance and deal-making was how you bring people together with opposing views and convince them of a commonality.'' To say that it is not a relevant skill, he added, ''I think totally misses the point.'')
Mr. Kotkin says that to achieve growth in an economy like that of Los Angeles, ''you've got to grow it from the ground up, nurture its roots -- in the small factories, in people's houses,'' Mr. Kotkin said. ''L.A. can never again compete at the megacorporation level. It can't compete with Dallas.''
As an example, he pointed to the Wing Hing Noodle Company, which has a factory downtown. Founded in 1978 by Robert Yee, a Chinese immigrant, the company was expanded five years ago by Mr. Yee's son Kenny, who transformed it from an old-fashioned, local manufacturer into one with a broader, more mainstream appeal. The company added products like wonton chips and fortune cookies and forged business relationships with national food chains like the Cheesecake Factory and P. F. Chang's. Revenue has almost doubled since 2009.
This phenomenon can be seen all across Los Angeles, where new restaurants, shops and other small businesses are started by the children of immigrants looking to meld their ethnic heritage with their American upbringing and education -- the food-truck revolution being just one example.
But it isn't easy to gain a foothold in the city. ''It's terribly difficult to do business in the city of Los Angeles,'' Kenny Yee said. ''Our infrastructure is not the most business-friendly. It's not generally set up to help the small guys. As a small-business owner, you know how to run your business, you know how to deal with customers, you know how to get supplies. But you're generally not going to be well versed in navigating the political network when it comes to something as simple as getting a permit for an expansion.''
MR. BEUTNER and Mr. Kotkin may focus on different approaches to the Los Angeles jobs crisis, but they agree that bureaucracy is a big hindrance to innovation.
Mr. Kotkin said: ''First businesses have to get over California's hurdles, then the city of L.A.'s hurdles. Most people can't make it through those hurdles.'' As a solution, he suggested ''some sort of regulatory streamlining to help small and midsize businesses.''
The city needs to make those changes, he said, because the ethnic and the artisanal communities ''are the real drivers of L.A.''
E-mail: proto@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at the Wing Hing Noodle Company, above and left, in Los Angeles. The business offers an example of promoting economic growth from the ground up, by focusing on smaller communities within the city. Founded by a Chinese immigrant, the company has been expanded by his son to offer more products. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (56%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRIC CAR CO INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); GREECE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



39 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2752 words

HEADLINE: The Young Gallerists

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
TO describe the retrospective of Richard Hambleton's art that was recently held at the Phillips de Pury & Company galleries as a zoo doesn't even take into account the woman who strapped a bug-eyed monkey puppet to her chest. About 2,000 partygoers were crowding two floors at the auction house on Park Avenue, including wealthy Upper East Siders and a parade of models from New York Fashion Week, many sipping from flutes of Champagne.
Theodora Richards, the daughter of Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones, shimmied around the room in a second skin of stretchy black lace, while the billionaire Stephen A. Schwarzman grazed past Alexa Chung and Karolina Kurkova. Around 9:20 p.m., Mr. Hambleton, the famously reclusive graffiti artist who descended into obscurity after the 1980s art gold rush went bust, arrived with a bandage on his nose, seemingly dazed by the crowd.
The real draw that night, though, was Vladimir Restoin Roitfeld, 26, and his business partner, Andy Valmorbida, 31, the show's young curators and art dealers, who are reviving interest in Mr. Hambleton's paintings. Mr. Valmorbida, the Australian heir to a food and coffee fortune, bounced around the gallery, chatting with buyers. Mr. Restoin Roitfeld, the son of Carine Roitfeld, the former editor in chief of French Vogue, stayed mostly in place, his curious Kewpie-doll eyes scanning the crowd. 
It was a different scene two evenings earlier on the Lower East Side, where art dealers were opening their galleries for the beginning of the fall art season. Young 20-somethings, not recognizably rich or famous, wandered past the small storefronts in fedoras and jeans. At the Rachel Uffner Gallery on Orchard Street, about 150 people packed into a space the size of a large one-bedroom apartment and drank from cans of Tsingtao beer. The artist Sara Greenberger Rafferty's opening show included work made using photographs, Plexiglas and acetate. And she hugged well-wishers that night despite a faulty air-conditioner that left most sticky.
But Ms. Uffner, 33, has more in common with her uptown peers than appearances suggest. Though one gallery owner may show an artist whose work now sells for $25,000 or more and another may show unknown artists whose work still goes largely unnoticed by big-name collectors or established critics, both are part of a new generation of New York gallerists who are slowly transforming the city's art scene.
''There are new galleries popping up all over,'' Ms. Uffner said, taking a break from the evening's festivities. ''People are beginning to recognize we have legitimate places to show.''
When the stock market collapsed in fall 2008, many people feared the art market would be dragged down with it. But art auction houses, including Christie's and Sotheby's, are currently reporting healthy business. Individual prices are often strong: At Phillips de Pury in May, one of Warhol's famous images of Elizabeth Taylor sold for $26.9 million: about $3 million more than a similar work at the height of the market at Christie's in 2007. And while Larry Gagosian and other blue-chip dealers continue to dominate sales for the wealthiest collectors, gallery owners who have opened their doors in the past few years seem to be thriving despite the persistent recession.
The New Art Dealers Alliance, a national organization of art professionals or gallery owners in business less than 10 years, said that nearly one-third of its 300 members are based in New York City.
Choosing which up-and-coming gallerists to profile for this article involved considering art dealers who either opened New York galleries or began working together within the last three years. Then art critics, gallery owners and art collectors were interviewed to narrow the field of gallerists who represented promising artists or had an interesting take on contemporary art.
The final cut included Mr. Restoin Roitfeld, with that famous last name and the prized connections that come with it; two dealers positioning themselves as the angry young men of the art world; and a scrappy out-of-towner hoping to make it big in New York.
Despite their differences, all share the need to actually make a living at this. Owning an art gallery is an expensive proposition. That is why many new galleries are on the Lower East Side, where rent can range from $2,000 to $10,000 a month, compared with $25,000 or more for a gallery in Chelsea. (Ms. Uffner says she pays less than $4,000.) Many new gallerists, like Laurel Gitlen, find their art spaces after walking around the neighborhood. Some, like Mr. Valmorbida and Mr. Restoin Roitfeld, have forsaken the traditional gallery space, choosing instead to hold exhibitions when and where they choose. (Artists generally earn 50 percent of the sale price of their work at galleries, while the gallery owner might earn 30 percent to 50 percent of a sale, depending on discounts, or whether an art adviser of another dealer is involved.)
Michele Maccarone, whose West Village gallery is well respected among the junior set, is worried that, as larger galleries continue to become more brand-conscious or the economy continues to slide, emerging gallerists might lose their nerve. ''I opened 10 years ago, and it was down and dirty,'' she said. ''But even I'm playing it safe myself. That punkness and rawness, it really doesn't exist anymore.'' But at least, for now, she said, ''people are trying to keep it real.''
Ramiken Crucible
If Marcel Duchamp had a mischievous little brother today, he would probably be a lot like Mike Egan. Last year, this art-handler-turned-dealer helped organize the Art Handling Olympics, a competition among Mr. Egan's brawny peers, roughly 50 in all, who bubble-wrapped paintings and hung 60-pound blocks of lead in front of 200 spectators at his gallery. And in September, the same night other galleries around the Lower East Side celebrated the opening of the art season, showing work that included photographs of people dressed in tutus and a sculpture comprising trophies, Mr. Egan hosted a screening of the disturbing cult film ''Trash Humpers.'' (No metaphor there.)
Fed up with New York's commercial gallery ethos, Mr. Egan, 29, and Blaize Lehane, 32, who both worked at the now closed Goff + Rosenthal in the mid-2000s, partnered in January in Ramiken Crucible, a gallery originally founded in 2009 by Mr. Egan in an illegal Lower East Side basement. Liv Tyler and the artist Terence Koh showed up once to hear the funereal songs of Salem, a Michigan band with a devoted downtown following. Now aboveground and next door to a liquor store on Chinatown's fringe, Mr. Egan and Mr. Lehane seem to delight in thumbing their noses at the so-called art intelligentsia.
''As an art dealer, you should spit on history, wipe it away and find something new,'' Mr. Egan said.
The duo's taste tends toward the comically subversive. Ramiken Crucible's new show, ''Stud,'' featuring the artist Gavin Kenyon, is composed of a large-scale cast-iron axe with a bulbous handle that resembles a fleshy limb. And this summer, they exhibited ''Vandal Lust'' by Andra Ursuta, a 10-foot catapult made of wood and cardboard flanked by a replica of the artist's lifeless body after being hurled into a wall.
Mr. Egan began representing Ms. Ursuta, whom he is now dating, after she sent him an unsolicited e-mail asking him to check out her Web site. ''Every artist is scraping by, trying to get some attention for their work,'' he said.
Mr. Egan studied at New York's School of Visual Arts; Mr. Lehane has a computer science degree from Boston University. Together, they project a kind of us-against-the-world image. ''There is almost an energy, anger even, between us,'' Mr. Lehane said.
Kate Werble Gallery
When Kate Werble opened a space to show art in West SoHo two weeks before the financial collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008, she was given a sage piece of advice: ''People said you have to put at least one artist up on your Web site,'' she said. So she listed John Lehr, a photographer whose work has shown at the Museum of Modern Art, and whom she had met years earlier while organizing a group show for a friend. Months later, she got a second piece of advice: ''People said you can't really represent just one artist.''
Those were tough days. But Ms. Werble, 31, took her time picking artists and now represents a stable of nine, including Mr. Lehr, a move that seems to have paid off. In December, she was awarded a top prize for curatorial presentation at the New Art Dealers Alliance show in Miami.
''Werble's display stood out for the caliber of its assortment of artwork playing on the tradition of Minimalist art,'' the art Web site Artinfo said then.
Unlike some gallerists who demand that only represented artists be promoted in-house, Ms. Werble had a more relaxed approach. ''I wanted to use the space in a way that artists came together,'' she said. During the lean early years, she invited two artists each month to show their work, a savvy business move, as some of them, like the conceptual artist Luke Stettner, stayed on. He has a solo exhibition at Ms. Werble's gallery this month.
Last February, Ms. Werble held a solo show for Anna Betbeze, who teaches at Yale and applies dye and watercolor to wool rugs that are ripped, burned or cut until they resemble psychedelic animal hides. In May, one of Ms. Betbeze's pieces was included alongside works by Andy Warhol and Robert Rauschenberg in a show organized by the Palazzo Grassi, the Venice museum run by the foundation of the French billionaire Francois Pinault.
Ms. Werble lives with Christopher Chiappa, another artist she represents. But she is quick to point out that she shows no favoritism. ''I love all my artists,'' she said with a giggle. ''I'd sleep with them all.''
Andy Valmorbida and
Vladimir Restoin Roitfeld
In a starry field, Mr. Valmorbida and Mr. Restoin Roitfeld are perhaps the most luminous. Mr. Restoin Roitfeld, who grew up in Paris, has a fan blog (I Want to Be a Roitfeld) that chronicles the goings-on of his high-profile family, including his sister, Julia. And Mr. Valmorbida has reportedly dated Lindsay Lohan and the supermodel Rachel Hunter.
After dabbling and dropping out of the movie business (Mr. Restoin Roitfeld) and finance (Mr. Valmorbida), each began consulting on and dealing in art. They joined forces in 2009 after the art dealer Rick Librizzi introduced them to the all-but-forgotten Mr. Hambleton, a contemporary, if not exactly a peer, of Jean-Michel Basquiat and Keith Haring. Artists from the 1980s, the two surmised, were due for a comeback.
Mr. Hambleton ''had refused to work with any dealer,'' Mr. Restoin Roitfeld said, ''so no one had done anything for him.''
They spent three months scouring galleries for his paintings, buying them at low prices that they hoped would rise once they began promoting Mr. Hambleton's work.
Instead of starting their own gallery, though, the two decided to market the artist's work with a series of glamorous global art parties in Milan, Moscow, London and Cannes, paid for by corporate sponsors and attended by many of their famous friends. Their two-year effort with Mr. Hambleton culminated in a Fashion Week soiree, sponsored by Giorgio Armani, and where they showed 55 of Mr. Hambleton's paintings.
''Andy, come on, you have to go!'' Mr. Restoin Roitfeld exclaimed impatiently that night to Mr. Valmorbida, as he dragged his colleague by the arm across the crowded gallery. A buyer was interested in ''Horse & Rider, 2006,'' which Mr. Valmorbida owned. For 10 minutes, the affable Mr. Valmorbida regaled the man with stories of the artist, waving his hands in the air, his body rocking with restless energy. Mr. Restoin Roitfeld watched with keen interest.
That night, collectors bought all 12 paintings that were for sale, with an average price of $75,000. ''When we started, people laughed, saying, you need to start a gallery,'' Mr. Valmorbida said. ''But we never saw ourselves as part of the traditional art world.''
Laurel Gitlen
In 2005, Ms. Gitlen founded a contemporary art space in Portland, Ore., called Small A Projects, which had a loyal following. So when she moved to Manhattan three years later with her husband, Samuel Richardson, the head brewer at Greenpoint Beer Works in Brooklyn, many of the artists she had worked with in Portland agreed to join her at a new Broome Street gallery.
One of this ready group was Jessica Jackson Hutchins, who uses ceramic, old furniture and papier-mache to create large-scale pieces, including ''Couch for a Long Time,'' which was included in the 2010 biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art.
The two met when Ms. Hutchins called Ms. Gitlen and asked how to ship some sculpture. ''Connections were easy to make in Portland,'' Ms. Gitlen, 35, said. Later, she secured a studio visit after she ran into the artist at the grocery store. Ms. Hutchins's work now sells for $7,000 to $50,000 and is in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.
Another artist, the Richmond, Va.-based sculptor and performer Corin Hewitt, recently had a solo exhibition at the Whitney. Ms. Gitlen worked with him in 2007 when she exhibited his piece ''Weavings,'' for which he built an enclosed space that viewers could look inside and see the artist making sculpture and taking pictures. Ms. Gitlen introduced him to curators at the Seattle Art Museum, which in 2009 displayed the artist's photographs from the performance.
A student of art history, Ms. Gitlen seeks strong relationships with museum curators. ''I come from a curatorial background, so I am looking for artists who will have a place in the historical conversation,'' she said.
But she prefers to remain mostly quiet, unlike in the 1980s when art dealers like Mary Boone were often more controversial than the artists they represented. ''These days, I don't know if you want to have a personality or you want the gallery to have it,'' Ms. Gitlen said.
Rachel Uffner Gallery
Rachel Uffner, 33, has hit most of the art world's marks. After graduating from Washington University in St. Louis in 2000 with a bachelor's degree in art history and painting, she earned a coveted job at Christie's. After that she worked for a private collector and, in 2003, joined the D'Amelio Terras gallery in Chelsea, where she tended the front-desk phones. By the mid-2000s, she had worked her way up to become gallery director. Ms. Uffner even wanted to be an artist at one point. ''But I never had the rigor of spending the day in the studio by myself,'' she said. ''I liked being out with other people.''
So she started her own gallery, with pieces that cost mostly $3,000 to $10,000. ''I do like being the conduit between two worlds,'' she said.
In 2007, she saw the plaster and paper works of the little-known Hilary Harnischfeger in a contemporary art journal and tracked her down. Ms. Uffner courted her after leaving D'Amelio Terras and signed her the summer before she started her gallery, where Ms. Harnischfeger has already had two solo shows. Ms. Uffner's first exhibition, in 2008, featured Roger White, the painter, writer and co-founder of the journal Paper Monument, and was scheduled within days of the Lehman Brothers collapse. ''People were comfortable spending in the hundreds of dollars, not thousands,'' she said. ''I thought I would go back to school and become a dentist.''
She scheduled a second show for Mr. White last year, and his works sold out. Ms. Uffner also represents the conceptual artist Sara Greenberger Rafferty, whose work is now in the permanent collections of MoMA and the Whitney.
''Artists and their art dealers are a lot like kids and parents who have weird dynamics,'' Ms. Greenberger Rafferty said at the September opening of her new show. ''But we are the same generation. I never feel sheepish about saying what I think. At a more established gallery, you are lower on the totem pole.''
Where the Emerging Show: Ramiken Crucible 389 Grand Street ramikencrucible.com Current show: Gavin Kenyon; through Oct. 30. Kate Werble Gallery 83 Vandam Street katewerblegallery.com Current show: Luke Stettner; through Oct. 15. Vladimir Restoin Roitfeld And Andy Valmorbida vladimirrestoinroitfeld.com valmorbida.com Next show: Ouattara Watts; February 2012. Laurel Gitlen 261 Broome Street laurelgitlen.com Current show: Ryan Foerster, Jessica Jackson Hutchins and Chadwick Rantanen; through Oct. 23. Rachel Uffner Gallery 47 Orchard Street racheluffnergallery.com Current show: Sara Greenberger Rafferty; through Oct. 23.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EMERGING: Young art dealers are trying to make a name for themselves in the New York scene. Clockwise from top, Blaize Lehane, left, and Mike Egan
Rachel Uffner
Kate Werble
Vladimir Restoin Roitfeld, left, and Andy Valmorbida
and Laurel Gitlen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK VELTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
MAKING A SCENE: From top, at the opening reception for the artist Richard Hambleton
 Rachel Uffner, center, during an opening at her Lower East Side gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY GHITIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); FASHION SHOWS (71%); RETAILERS (63%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



40 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Determining a Home's Value

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
AGAIN and again, you hear about mortgage rates hitting historic lows; now you're thinking it's time to refinance. But one hitch may hold some homeowners back: declining property values.
''Homes have lost equity,'' said Kathleen Bowen-Ha, the owner-broker and an appraiser for Global Keepers in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
Millions of homeowners nationwide have either no equity or negative equity in their homes, and they can usually refinance their mortgages only by paying extra at the closing, or what's known as a cash-in mortgage. 
Those considering refinancing will need to determine the current valuation, comparing it with the mortgage balance. If the balance is at least 15 to 20 percent higher than what you owe, you're ready to refinance without what would amount to a second down payment.
To obtain a good valuation, some homeowners hire an appraiser, at a cost of $300 to $600, or more on a very large or expensive property. This may be informative, but most lenders will require an official appraisal anyway, and that will have to be conducted by someone on their approved lists, said Diane V. Christiana, a senior appraiser at the Appraisal Consultants Group in Livingston, N.J.
Another, less costly option before a homeowner approaches a lender is to check the ''comps'' -- comparable homes in the neighborhood that have sold in the last three to six months. ''You can get a pretty good sense if you're underwater or not, just based on what's sold in your neighborhood,'' Ms. Christiana said.
Look for recent sales on Web sites like Homegain, Trulia or Zillow, or check local sites produced by real estate companies or run by Multiple Listing Services. Many of these show homes for sale or rent; to gain access to data on sold properties, you can check with local agents.
Ms. Christiana also suggests going to the county assessor's office and looking up specific homes that have sold recently in your neighborhood.
If you're looking at comps yourself, consider homes with amenities and square footage similar to yours, said Alan Rosenbaum, the founder and chief executive of Guardhill Mortgage in New York, an independent mortgage brokerage. Mr. Rosenbaum says he prefers sites like Zillow and Streeteasy when doing quick checks on comps for apartments in New York.
Then, after you've completed your price analysis with comps, share your findings with the bank's appraiser to try to ascertain the amount you want to borrow, Mr. Rosenbaum suggested.
When your lender is about to send an appraiser to your home, find out whether the person has expertise in your city or area, either by checking with the lender or looking up the appraiser online. It can hurt your valuation if the appraiser is from another region, Ms. Bowen-Ha said, a situation that occurs less often with local and regional lenders.
Just before your home is scheduled for its official appraisal, spend a few hours touching up and making sure it looks well maintained, Ms. Bowen-Ha said. Hire a cleaning person. Repair any broken windows. Gather up any documentation on upgrades you have had done -- for instance, changing out the furnace, adding skylights or replacing appliances. This can help show your home is in good condition, and may be reflected in the value.
Find out what comps the appraiser is using, and make sure that he or she excludes ''distressed properties'' or foreclosures, Ms. Bowen-Ha added. ''If they put those into the pool,'' she said, ''it will definitely have a negative impact on the value of your property.'' If that happens, ask the lender and the appraiser to recalculate your value.
Then be sure to ask for your copy of the appraisal, so you can decide whether it fairly reflects your home and neighborhood. If you feel it's inadequate, Mr. Rosenbaum said, ask for a second appraisal, and even a third. ''Don't give up,'' he said. Gather more information on your home and its value, and keep trying.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); TAX ASSESSORS (72%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (53%); TRULIA INC (53%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (53%); TRLA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



41 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS NEW JERSEY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: The Romance Is Fraying, but the Banter Goes On

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOMMERS

 BODY:
Richard Dresser tends to write compact comedies that glint with a dark edge. Among his best-known works, ''Rounding Third'' (2002) studies two Little League coaches with clashing attitudes toward competition; ''Gun-Shy'' (1997) looks at divorced mates suffering through rebound romances; and ''Below the Belt'' (1995) presents a satirical saga of three corporate minions antagonizing one another at a remote industrial outpost.
Mr. Dresser's latest play, ''The Last Days of Mickey and Jean,'' now having its New Jersey premiere at the Bickford Theater in Morris Township, is composed in a similar vein. A contemporary story set mostly in a hotel room in Paris, it concerns middle-aged Mickey, a well-off but unwillingly retired Boston businessman. After seven years of wandering aimlessly abroad, Mickey is chafing at inactivity and at too much intimacy with Jean, his longtime girlfriend. 
''It's the endless time we spend together, the stress, the museums, all the talk about feelings,'' he explains.
The play's darker underside emerges as Mickey is gradually revealed to be a former crime boss who fled the United States. With a $2 million reward offered for his capture, he is unlikely to return home, and is becoming increasingly paranoid about his health, as well as about a certain Fiat that he spots continually driving past the hotel.
Jean, loyal to her man but pining for her twin sister and a beloved nephew back in the States, makes the effort to visit cultural sites and to strike up fleeting acquaintances with other American expatriates, including Bobby, a lonely banker who is soon smitten by her plainspoken charms.
The fraying relationship between Mickey and Jean deteriorates further when they suddenly lose their fortune. Mickey, desperate, proposes a suicide pact, and Jean acquiesces.
Even here, Mr. Dresser opts to keep matters light. Bantering in the face of death, Mickey and Jean nostalgically recall their romance, which survived three marriages on his part (''The only reason I ever got married is so they wouldn't testify against me,'' he says) and the night when the police stopped Jean on a joyride with one of Mickey's victims stashed in the trunk. That recollection leads to Mickey's funny anecdote about a double murder involving guys named Coyle, Doyle, Foyle and O'Boyle.
This amiable but trivial comedy rambles along in 14 scenes and 80 minutes toward a conclusion that is presumably meant to be unexpected.
Had John Pietrowski, the director, staged ''The Last Days of Mickey and Jean'' with a more sensitive hand, perhaps it might have achieved some emotional resonance, but instead the production is played strictly for laughs, which are sporadic. ''Cute'' was the word a few spectators were heard murmuring as they departed the theater.
Duncan Rogers ably lends his nutcracker jaw and an anxious air to Mickey. Bev Sheehan's Jean has tarantula eyelashes and a voice that sharpens with distrust. Oliver Wadsworth is believably innocuous as the homesick banker, Bobby, and also does well by Mr. Dresser's comparatively cartoonish figures of a snide British doctor named Shockley and a miniskirted French transvestite called Tinsel.
The actors are not helped by Ken Mooney's obviously economical single set representing a hotel room, a cafe and a physician's office. Flatly lighted by Roman Klima and set against a black background, the uninspired gold-and-blue hotel room lacks character and, worse, is positioned too far upstage to allow the actors to commune easily with their audience.
Perhaps the set functioned better at the Oldcastle Theater Company in Vermont, where this production first appeared in August. According to the program notes, the play originated in 2010 at the Merrimack Repertory Theater in Massachusetts and was subsequently revised by Mr. Dresser. It is being presented by Bickford in a partnership with Oldcastle and the Playwrights Theater of New Jersey, based in Madison and currently without a performing space, where Mr. Pietrowski is the artistic director.
''The Last Days of Mickey and Jean,'' by Richard Dresser, is at the Bickford Theater at the Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road, Morris Township, through Oct. 9; morrismuseum.org or (973) 971-3706.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INTRIGUE: Left, Duncan Rogers (Mickey) and Bev Sheehan (Jean) in ''The Last Days of Mickey and Jean'' at the Bickford Theater. Oliver Wadsworth, above left, with Mr. Rogers, plays Bobby, an American banker, as well as Tinsel, a French transvestite, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WARREN WESTURA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (75%); THEATER (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MURDER (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); SUICIDE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



42 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead Oct. 2 - Oct. 8

 BODY:
Theater
Steven McElroy
We have arrived at that fruitful point in the fall theater season when a Broadway production will open about once a week for the next couple of months, ensuring that Midtown Manhattan will be crammed with new productions. 
There are openings coming in other neighborhoods too, of course, where the prices are more recession friendly. In a year that has brought revivals of the AIDS-themed ''Angels in America'' and ''Normal Heart,'' completists may want to check out the Barefoot Theater Company's next production. The first offering in a three-play festival called STRIPPED is another work from early days of the AIDS crisis: Joe Pintauro's sobering 1991 drama ''Raft of the Medusa,'' set in an AIDS support group and newly revised by the author (Wednesday through Oct. 22). Stripped continues with ''Verse Chorus Verse'' (Oct. 26 to Nov. 12), a drama by Randall Colburn inspired by the Nirvana song of the same name, and will conclude with ''Gloucester Blue'' (Nov. 16 to Dec. 3), a new play written and directed by Israel Horovitz. This dark comedy is the latest of several Horovitz works that Barefoot has presented. Cherry Lane Studio Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, barefoottheatrecompany.org; $18.
Uptown, Project: Theater, is presenting ''Mangella,'' a new play by Ken Ferrigni, directed by Joe Jung. Billed as a cyber-thriller, the play is about a hacker caring for his demented father and whose computer may have a mind of its own. Thursday through Oct. 23, the Drilling Company, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan; (212) 868-4444, projecttheater.org; $18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (95%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); CALENDARS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); WRITERS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



43 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; THE FIFTH DOWN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2136 words

HEADLINE: Think Ugly: Jets Feuds, Steelers Wins and Cowboys Snaps

BYLINE: By MIKE TANIER

 BODY:
Jets (2-1) at Ravens (2-1) Sunday, 8:20 p.m. Line: Ravens by 3.5. Any team coached by a member of the Ryan family does not so much play a 16-game schedule as careen from bitter rivalry to bitter rivalry, each game becoming the kind of over-boiled grudge match usually settled with suplexes and folding chairs at ringside. It happened to Buddy Ryan's Eagles, and it has happened to Rex Ryan's Jets. Jets-Cowboys becomes Rex Ryan against Rob Ryan. Jets-Patriots becomes Rex Ryan against Bill Belichick. Jets-Ravens devolves into Rex Ryan against the team that declined to promote him to head coach when he was its defensive coordinator. 
Next time the Jets face the Raiders, it will be Rex Ryan against the team that broke his quarterback's nose. Even Rex Ryan could not muster a feud with the Jaguars, but Joe Namath got into the act this week, so if you play the current Jets against the 1968 version in a video game, that is now a grudge match, too. Granted, the presence of the ex-Ravens Bart Scott, Jim Leonhard and Derrick Mason on the Jets roster does give the game a familiarity-breeds-contempt angle. ''This is a family game, but it's also a heated rivalry,'' said Ravens defensive end Terrell Suggs, perhaps not realizing that Jets charity softball tournaments are also heated rivalries. ''You've got to go beat up on the ones you love.'' In other words, this time it's personal. Just like all the other times. Pick: Jets.
Steelers (2-1) at Texans (2-1) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Texans by 4. The season often starts this way for the Steelers. They grind out a couple of seemingly difficult wins against bad teams. They lose to the Ravens, or someone Ravens-like. We question their offensive line and remark that the team is not deploying the classic Steelers running game, because in Pittsburgh it is always 1978 and the only way to win is to hand off 40 times. The Steelers have had a suspect offensive line for the entire Ben Roethlisberger era, made worse by Roethlisberger's belief that getting rid of the ball on time causes back pimples. Bruce Arians has been the offensive coordinator for five years, and he has always been more pass-oriented than the guys with Franco Harris collector's edition beer steins would like. The Steelers have reached two Super Bowls in four years through a succession of ugly wins. It is time to stop being surprised. Pick: Steelers.
Lions (3-0) at Cowboys (2-1) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Cowboys by 1. The Cowboys botched several center snaps on Monday night, and Tony Romo knows why: the Redskins were imitating his pre-snap cadence. That's right: there is a Romo voice impersonator on the Redskins, or perhaps the team purchased one of those ''Romo Calls'' from a sporting goods store (''Blow into it, and American Idol runners-up flock to your position!'') The Romo Karaoke did not stop the Cowboys' six field goals because no one knows what kicker Dan Bailey sounds like. (The holder Mat McBriar actually calls for the snap, but his voice was a mystery, too.) Lions wide receiver Calvin Johnson scored two touchdowns in each of his first three games, in part because opponents have an illogical impulse to leave him single-covered in clutch situations. The Cowboys will not make that mistake. ''You always have to account for Calvin,'' safety Gerald Sensabaugh said. Maybe he should tell the Vikings and the Chiefs. Pick: Cowboys.
Panthers (1-2) at Bears (1-2) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Bears by 6.5. It's time for advanced algebra with Mike Martz. Let x represent the amount of control Martz has over an offensive gameplan. Let f(x) represent running plays and g(x) represent passing plays. As x increases, the ratio of f(x) to g(x) is an asymptote approaching zero. Meanwhile, h(x), Lovie Smith's blood pressure, and p(x), Jay Cutler's health insurance premiums, increase exponentially. We would compute the rate of change in the Bears' playoff hopes as Martz's influence increases, but this is no place for derivative humor. For the Bears, Martz and his 4-to-1 pass-run ratios will always be an x-factor. Pick: Panthers.
Bills (3-0) at Bengals (1-2) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Bills by 3. ''The fandemonium is running high in Buffalo,'' began a WIVB television segment about the Bills early last week. The nearly three-minute segment revealed that Bills merchandise is flying off the shelves, that Ryan Fitzpatrick jerseys are on back order, that Bills fans are hanging out at the bar more but drinking less (''They don't have to drink away their sorrows,'' said the tavern manager Jill Vecchio, after wiping a bar top that looked perfectly clean in the first place) and that there is precious little else to talk about in greater Buffalo besides a three-game winning streak. One fan was said to be heading to an ''exclusive Bills-only watering hole in Florida,'' which makes you wonder how some business models survive the recession while other, saner ones fail. Pick: Bills.
Patriots (2-1) at Raiders (2-1) Sunday, 4:15 p.m. Line: Patriots by 4. Raiders linebacker Rolando McClain said during the week that the Patriots were ''just a finesse team.'' Tom Brady, perhaps realizing that the criticism hit too close to home, immediately consented to the most famous buzzcut since Elvis Presley was drafted in 1957. The high 'n' tight Brady can take solace in the fact that only successful teams are accused of being ''finesse,'' often by grumbling opponents who fail to notice that their own offenses consist largely of end-arounds and cutesy option plays. Pick: Patriots.
Redskins (2-1) at Rams (0-3) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Redskins by 1.5. Like the first frost of autumn, the first unhinged DeAngelo Hall rant was late to arrive this year. But once it came, it delivered everything we have come to expect in a Redskins player interview: frustration, profanity and more than a hint of insubordination. Hall criticized the coordinator Jim Haslett's blitz packages, saying ''you don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure it out after a while.'' Rocket scientists could not track a 6.5-ton satellite as it crashed to the earth last week, so they might find Haslett's defense rather befuddling. Rams quarterback Sam Bradford has a degree in that most reliably predictive of all disciplines (finance), which may explain why he so often looks surprised. Pick: Redskins
49ers (2-1) at Eagles (1-2) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Eagles by 8.5. X-rays on Michael Vick's right hand revealed that the Eagles' linebackers are terrible. The Eagles took eventual action, benching Casey Matthews in favor of Brian Rolle in a panic-scented move. Vick says that there is a ''100 percent chance'' he will play despite a tender nonthrowing hand. Speaking of percentages, the folks at FootballOutsiders.com have determined that the 49ers have a 74.7 percent chance of reaching the postseason; only the Packers and the Lions have better odds. The percentages are determined by feeding statistics and schedules to a computer, watching as the computer gains sentience and weeps at the fate of the Seahawks, the Cardinals and the Rams, then drawing the obvious conclusion. Pick: Eagles.
Vikings (0-3) at Chiefs (0-3) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Vikings by 1.5. The Vikings have now blown halftime leads of 17-7, 17-0, and 20-0, and have been outscored, 67-6, in second halves and overtime. Coach Leslie Frazier and the offensive coordinator Bill Musgrave have made plenty of questionable decisions late in games. Why leave Calvin Johnson single-covered in overtime? Why work Adrian Peterson into the ground, then hand off to Toby Gerhart on fourth-and-1? The Vikings can defeat the Chiefs without solving these riddles. After that, their fans are advised to tape the games and watch them backward so they can enjoy the spirited comebacks. Pick: Vikings.
Saints (2-1) at Jaguars (1-2) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Saints by 7. The Jaguars defensive coordinator Mel Tucker tore a quadriceps muscle while goofing off with other coaches after practice. Coach Jack Del Rio talked Tucker and the offensive coordinator Dirk Koetter into fielding punts from a JUGS machine, and things went horribly awry. Thank heavens they did not opt for skeet shooting instead. Del Rio was later seen grabbing the JUGS machine by the collar, getting up in its grill and shouting ''You fool! That ball was meant for Koetter!'' Tucker will miss this week's game, but defensive coordinators do not do much against the Saints anyway, except stand around and contemplate futility. Pick: Saints.
Titans (2-1) at Browns (2-1) Sunday, 1 p.m. Line: Browns by 1. The Titans' passing attack has been surprisingly efficient in the early weeks, but that may change now that Kenny Britt has torn an anterior cruciate ligament. Britt had 17 receptions for 289 yards and 3 touchdowns, picking up much of the offensive slack left by Chris Johnson, who is still struggling to average more than one body length per carry. ''It's not like we can magically create another Kenny Britt,'' quarterback Matt Hasselbeck said during the week. If they could, the Titans would win the first-ever Nobel Prize in Traffic Violations. Pick: Browns.
Falcons (1-2) at Seahawks (1-2) Sunday, 4:05 p.m. Line: Falcons by 4.5. The Falcons have surrendered 13 sacks in three games, prompting Coach Mike Smith to consider personnel changes: left tackle Sam Baker is a leading candidate to be benched if there is trouble Sunday. Meanwhile, on the police blotter, kicker Matt Bryant got his stolen golf clubs back. A Chinese food deliveryman swiped the clubs from Bryant's garage, then traded the clubs for drugs - who knew there was even an exchange rate? The police eventually tracked the stolen clubs by their serial numbers on the Internet, untangling one of the most pathetic webs of crime ever spun. Bryant's prized Scotty Cameron putter, like the Falcons' pass protection, was still missing at press time. Pick: Falcons.
Giants (2-1) at Cardinals (1-2) Sunday, 4:05 p.m. Line: Giants by 1. The Giants' injury report arrived in the in-box this week, and it did not crash the server, there was no ''low memory'' error and there was no need to change toner cartridges twice while printing it up. Those are positive signs: Mario Manningham and Osi Umenyiora are back at practice, and additions are finally starting to outnumber subtractions. Eli Manning is fifth in the league in quarterback rating, and the Giants host the Seahawks after Sunday's journey to Arizona, where Kevin Kolb is fading a little every week, running back Beanie Wells is banged up and the local fans are distracted by the Diamondbacks. At this rate, Tom Coughlin may be almost cheerful by November. Pick: Giants.
Dolphins (0-3) at Chargers (2-1) Sunday, 4:15 p.m. Line: Chargers by 7. Reggie Bush Rationalization Season is upon us, a time to examine all of the underlying reasons for Bush's slow start while missing the main reason: he simply is not very good. ''This last game, I got caught pressing. I've got to be patient,'' Bush said Wednesday. And the Wednesday before that. And most Wednesdays in 2009 and 2010. Tony Sparano wants his staff to ''do a better job of getting Reggie in space, try to get Reggie touches early.'' Bush fumbled twice in the first half against the Browns, once on a pitch to the outside that gave him plenty of space in which to bobble. The Dolphins signed running back Steve Slaton this week. He's a small, shifty back who has had some brushes with greatness but has reliability issues. They must be trying to complete the set. Pick: Chargers.
Broncos (1-2) at Packers (3-0) Sunday, 4:15 p.m. Line: Packers by 12.5. The Packers' midweek injury list was long. Running back Ryan Grant (kidneys) and tackle Bryan Bulaga (knee) are unlikely to play. Tight end Jermichael Finley and three key players in the secondary (Nick Collins, Charles Woodson and Tramon Williams) were all either out or limited in practice as of Wednesday. The Packers had a similar injury rash last season, and they won the Super Bowl by replacing their starters with other team's castoffs. Any general manager who releases a practice squad player right now is simply playing into Ted Thompson's hands. Pick: Packers.
Colts (0-3) at Buccaneers (2-1) Monday, 8:30 p.m. Line: Buccaneers by 10. The two franchises that Tony Dungy helped to build are going in different directions. The Buccaneers are an up-and-coming team with lots of quality players but few superstars. The Colts are scotch-taping Kerry Collins together in what is becoming an increasingly depressing farce of an effort to survive without Peyton Manning. Dungy has become a best-selling author since leaving the Colts back when Manning was healthy and the supporting cast was capable. Dungy's next inspirational book should be titled ''Distancing Yourself from Disaster.'' Pick: Buccaneers.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Something has to give: Winless teams will meet in Week 4 when quarterback Matt Cassel, left, and the Chiefs host Donovan McNabb and the Vikings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, TIM UMPHREY/GETTY IMAGES
 ADAM BETTCHER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (74%); SPORTS (74%); SOFTBALL (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); BEER & ALE (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



44 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DOCTORS INC.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: Calling More Nurses 'Doctor,' A Title Physicians Begrudge

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
NASHVILLE -- With pain in her right ear, Sue Cassidy went to a clinic. The doctor, wearing a white lab coat with a stethoscope in one pocket, introduced herself.
''Hi. I'm Dr. Patti McCarver, and I'm your nurse,'' she said. And with that, Dr. McCarver stuck a scope in Ms. Cassidy's ear, noticed a buildup of fluid and prescribed an allergy medicine.
It was something that will become increasingly routine for patients: a someone who is not a physician using the title of doctor.
Dr. McCarver calls herself a doctor because she returned to school to earn a doctorate last year, one of thousands of nurses doing the same recently. Doctorates are popping up all over the health professions, and the result is a quiet battle over not only the title ''doctor,'' but also the money, power and prestige that often comes with it. 
As more nurses, pharmacists and physical therapists claim this honorific, physicians are fighting back. For nurses, getting doctorates can help them land a top administrative job at a hospital, improve their standing at a university and win them more respect from colleagues and patients. But so far, the new degrees have not brought higher fees from insurers for seeing patients or greater authority from states to prescribe medicines.
Nursing leaders say that their push to have more nurses earn doctorates has nothing to do with their fight of several decades in state legislatures to give nurses more autonomy, money and prescriptive power.
But many physicians are suspicious and say that once tens of thousands of nurses have doctorates, they will invariably seek more prescribing authority and more money. Otherwise, they ask, what is the point?
Dr. Roland Goertz, the board chairman of the American Academy of Family Physicians, says that physicians are worried that losing control over ''doctor,'' a word that has defined their profession for centuries, will be followed by the loss of control over the profession itself. He said that patients could be confused about the roles of various health professionals who all call themselves doctors.
''There is real concern that the use of the word 'doctor' will not be clear to patients,'' he said.
So physicians and their allies are pushing legislative efforts to restrict who gets to use the title of doctor. A bill proposed in the New York State Senate would bar nurses from advertising themselves as doctors, no matter their degree. A law proposed in Congress would bar people from misrepresenting their education or license to practice. And laws already in effect in Arizona, Delaware and other states forbid nurses, pharmacists and others to use the title ''doctor'' unless they immediately identify their profession.
The deeper battle is over who gets to treat patients first. Pharmacists, physical therapists and nurses largely play secondary roles to physicians, since patients tend to go to them only after a prescription, a referral or instructions from a physician. By requiring doctorates of new entrants, leaders of the pharmacy and physical therapy professions hope their members will be able to treat patients directly and thereby get a larger share of money spent on patient care.
As demand for health care services has grown, physicians have stopped serving as the sole gatekeepers for their patients' entry into the system. So physicians must increasingly share their patients -- not only with one another but also with other professions. Teamwork is the new mantra of medicine, and nurse practitioners and physician assistants (sometimes known as midlevels or physician extenders) have become increasingly important care providers, particularly in rural areas.
But while all physician organizations support the idea of teamwork, not all physicians are willing to surrender the traditional understanding that they should be the ones to lead the team. Their training is so extensive, physicians argue, that they alone should diagnose illnesses. Nurses respond that they are perfectly capable of recognizing a vast majority of patient problems, and they have the studies to prove it. The battle over the title ''doctor'' is in many ways a proxy for this larger struggle.
For patients, the struggle has brought an increasing array of professionals trained to deal with their day-to-day health woes, but also at times confusion over who is responsible for their care and what sort of training they have.
Six to eight years of collegiate and graduate education generally earn pharmacists, physical therapists and nurses the right to call themselves ''doctors,'' compared with nearly twice that many years of training for most physicians. For decades, a bachelor's degree was all that was required to become a pharmacist. That changed in 2004 when a doctorate replaced the bachelor's degree as the minimum needed to practice. Physical therapists once needed only bachelor's degrees, too, but the profession will require doctorates of all students by 2015 -- the same year that nursing leaders intend to require doctorates of all those becoming nurse practitioners.
Dr. Kathleen Potempa, dean of the University of Michigan School of Nursing and the president of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, said that the profession's new doctoral degree, called the doctor of nursing practice, was simply about remaining current. ''Knowledge is exploding, and the doctor of nursing practice degree evolved out of a grass-roots recognition that we need to continuously improve our curriculum,'' she said.
Last year, 153 nursing schools gave doctor of nursing practice degrees to 7,037 nurses, compared with four schools that gave the degrees to 170 nurses in 2004, when the association of nursing schools voted to embrace the new degree. In 2008, there were 375,794 nurses with master's degrees and 28,369 with doctorates, according to a recent government survey.
Dr. Potempa said that nurses with master's degrees were every bit as capable of treating patients as those with doctorates.
Nursing is filled with multiple specialties requiring varying levels of education, from a high school equivalency degree for nursing assistants to a master's degree for nurse practitioners. Those wishing to become nurse anesthetists will soon be required to earn doctorates, but otherwise there are presently no practical or clinical differences between nurses who earn master's degrees and those who get doctorates.
Nurse practitioners must generally graduate from college and take an additional 12 to 16 months of classes, which include months of treating patients for both mild and serious illnesses in clinics and hospitals under the watchful eyes of instructors. Those earning doctorates must generally take a further four semesters or 12 to 16 months of additional classes.
While instruction at each school varies, Dr. McCarver took classes in statistics, epidemiology and health care economics to earn her doctor of nursing practice degree. These additional classes, at Vanderbilt University, did not delve into how to treat specific illnesses, but taught Dr. McCarver the scientific and economic underpinnings of the care she was already providing and how they fit into the nation's health care system. Studies have shown that nurses with master's level training offer care in many primary care settings that is as good as and sometimes better than care given by physicians, who generally have far more extensive training. And patients often express higher satisfaction with care delivered by nurses, studies show. Physicians say they are better at recognizing rare problems, something studies have trouble measuring.
The benefits to patients of nurses receiving doctorates is unclear, since there is no evidence that nurses with doctoral degrees provide better care than those with master's degrees do.
Given the proven effectiveness of nurses with master's degrees, even some nursing leaders have asked why nurses should be required to get doctorates.
''If it ain't broke, why fix it?'' asked Dr. Afaf I. Meleis, dean of the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing.
Some health care economists say the push for clinical doctorates across health professions could be misguided. They argue that anything requiring students to spend more time and money getting trained will invariably result in longer waits and increased costs for patients, because fewer students will meet the increased requirements and those who do will eventually demand higher compensation.
''Everyone's talking about improving patients' access to care, bending the cost curve and creating team-based care,'' said Erin Fraher, an assistant professor of surgery and family medicine at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine. ''Where's the evidence that moving to doctorates in pharmacy, physical therapy and nursing achieves any of these?''
Depending on their area of specialty, nurse practitioners earn a median salary of $86,000 to $90,000 annually, according to the Medical Group Management Association -- a bit less than half of what primary care physicians earn. Nurses with doctorates generally earn the same salaries as those with master's degrees since insurers pay the same rates to both. Physician groups fear that the real reason behind the creation of the doctor of nursing practice degree is to persuade more state legislatures to grant nurses the right to treat patients without supervision from doctors.
Twenty-three states allow nurses to practice without a physician's supervision or collaboration, and most are in the mountain West and northern New England, areas that have trouble attracting enough physicians. Nursing groups have lobbied for years to increase that number. ''This degree is just another step toward independent practice,'' said Louis J. Goodman, chief executive of the Texas Medical Association.
Not true, Dr. Potempa said -- the new degree simply ensures that nurses stay competent. ''It's not like a group of us woke up one day to create a degree as a way to compete with another profession,'' she said. ''Nurses are very proud of the fact that they're nurses, and if nurses had wanted to be doctors, they would have gone to medical school.''
Doctors Inc.: Articles in this series are examining recent shifts in medical care.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patti McCarver, a nurse whose doctor of nursing practice degree entitles her to call herself ''doctor,'' meeting with a patient. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (89%); PHARMACISTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



45 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: U.T. Making a Big Bet On the Future of Algae

BYLINE: By LARA LAPIN. 
llapin@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Just off a dirt road in northwest Austin stand hundreds of 12-foot-tall tubes filled with green liquid. Nearly 15,000 gallons of algae grow inside the tubes, which are housed in a massive structure called a shadehouse. Lab workers have to climb ladders to peek inside and tend to the tiny organisms. 
For decades, scientists have been trying to find ways to mass-produce algae as a viable source of fuel for vehicles. High costs and environmental factors have created insurmountable roadblocks. Now, researchers hope, a new facility at the University of Texas will help them move closer to that goal.
''You need three things to grow algae: carbon dioxide, dirty water and sunshine,'' said Michael E. Webber, an assistant professor in the U.T. department of mechanical engineering. ''Texas has abundant supplies of all three.''
The university opened the shadehouse at the J. J. Pickle Research Campus three weeks ago with the objective of mass-producing algae for use as biofuel and other byproducts. AlgEternal Technologies, a company based in Austin, whose chief executive is Representative Rob Eissler, Republican of The Woodlands, collaborated with the UTEX Culture Collection of Algae -- one of the largest such collections in the world -- to develop the technology to grow the organisms for the project.
Another Texas company, OpenAlgae, works with the Center for Electromechanics at U.T. to extract oil from the organisms in a cost-effective manner.
Algae can be used to make products other than biofuel, including animal feed, food supplements and pharmaceuticals, said Jerry J. Brand, the Jack S. Josey professor in energy studies and the director of the UTEX Culture Collection of Algae.
Michael Jochum, AlgEternal's chief scientist, said one potential key to successfully growing large quantities of algae for commercial use was the project's Vertical Growth Module -- those giant tubes. The algae grow in a closed system that uses the sun as its main source of energy and reduces production costs and the chances of predators or diseases attacking the algae. Growing the cultures vertically also means scientists can produce a lot of algae in a relatively small area.
''Algae has typically been grown horizontally in open ponds, where limiting factors like poor sunlight and contamination from outside organisms have prevented large-scale algae production,'' Mr. Jochum said.
The UTEX Culture Collection of Algae works with AlgEternal to decide which kinds of culture should be grown and under what conditions, Mr. Brand said.
''They have the potential to play a role in reducing greenhouse gases and decreasing our dependence on crude oil,'' he said. ''Algae can grow much faster than plants. They don't require as much water, and they can grow in places that plants can't, like deserts.''
That is especially important for Texas because of the severe drought gripping the state.
Beyond the central problem of figuring out how to grow large amounts of algae economically, Mr. Brand said, is the complexity of working with vast amounts of the organisms. ''As you scale up,'' he said, ''more unexpected problems arise.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The UTEX Culture Collection of Algae, left and right. Michael Jochum, AlgEternal's chief scientist, checked large tubes of algae. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER SELVIDGE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEAWEED & ALGAE (90%); BIOMASS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); BIOFUELS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (68%); ANIMAL FOODS (64%); LIVESTOCK FEED (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



46 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The Bankers and the Revolutionaries

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
AFTER flying around the world this year to cover street protests from Cairo to Morocco, reporting on the latest ''uprising'' was easier: I took the subway.
The ''Occupy Wall Street'' movement has taken over a park in Manhattan's financial district and turned it into a revolutionary camp. Hundreds of young people chant slogans against ''banksters'' or corporate tycoons. Occasionally, a few even pull off their clothes, which always draws news cameras.
''Occupy Wall Street'' was initially treated as a joke, but after a couple of weeks it's gaining traction. The crowds are still tiny by protest standards -- mostly in the hundreds, swelling during periodic marches -- but similar occupations are bubbling up in Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Washington. David Paterson, the former New York governor, dropped by, and labor unions are lending increasing support. 
I tweeted that the protest reminded me a bit of Tahrir Square in Cairo, and that raised eyebrows. True, no bullets are whizzing around, and the movement won't unseat any dictators. But there is the same cohort of alienated young people, and the same savvy use of Twitter and other social media to recruit more participants. Most of all, there's a similar tide of youthful frustration with a political and economic system that protesters regard as broken, corrupt, unresponsive and unaccountable.
''This was absolutely inspired by Tahrir Square, by the Arab Spring movement,'' said Tyler Combelic, 27, a Web designer from Brooklyn who is a spokesman for the occupiers. ''Enough is enough!''
The protesters are dazzling in their Internet skills, and impressive in their organization. The square is divided into a reception area, a media zone, a medical clinic, a library and a cafeteria. The protesters' Web site includes links allowing supporters anywhere in the world to go online and order pizzas (vegan preferred) from a local pizzeria that delivers them to the square.
In a tribute to the ingenuity of capitalism, the pizzeria quickly added a new item to its menu: the ''OccuPie special.''
Where the movement falters is in its demands: It doesn't really have any. The participants pursue causes that are sometimes quixotic -- like the protester who calls for removing Andrew Jackson from the $20 bill because of his brutality to American Indians. So let me try to help.
I don't share the antimarket sentiments of many of the protesters. Banks are invaluable institutions that, when functioning properly, move capital to its best use and raise living standards. But it's also true that soaring leverage not only nurtured soaring bank profits in good years, but also soaring risks for the public in bad years.
In effect, the banks socialized risk and privatized profits. Securitizing mortgages, for example, made many bankers wealthy while ultimately leaving governments indebted and citizens homeless.
We've seen that inadequately regulated, too-big-to-fail banks can undermine the public interest rather than serve it -- and in the last few years, banks got away with murder. It's infuriating to see bankers who were rescued by taxpayers now moan about regulations intended to prevent the next bail-out. And it's important that protesters spotlight rising inequality: does it feel right to anyone that the top 1 percent of Americans now possess a greater collective net worth than the entire bottom 90 percent?
So for those who want to channel their amorphous frustration into practical demands, here are several specific suggestions:
Impose a financial transactions tax. This would be a modest tax on financial trades, modeled on the suggestions of James Tobin, an American economist who won a Nobel Prize. The aim is in part to dampen speculative trading that creates dangerous volatility. Europe is moving toward a financial transactions tax, but the Obama administration is resisting -- a reflection of its deference to Wall Street.
Close the ''carried interest'' and ''founders' stock'' loopholes, which may be the most unconscionable tax breaks in America. They allow our wealthiest citizens to pay very low tax rates by pretending that their labor compensation is a capital gain.
Protect big banks from themselves. This means moving ahead with Basel III capital requirements and adopting the Volcker Rule to limit banks' ability to engage in risky and speculative investments. Another sensible proposal, embraced by President Obama and a number of international experts, is the bank tax. This could be based on an institution's size and leverage, so that bankers could pay for their cleanups -- the finance equivalent of a pollution tax.
Much of the sloganeering at ''Occupy Wall Street'' is pretty silly -- but so is the self-righteous sloganeering of Wall Street itself. And if a ragtag band of youthful protesters can help bring a dose of accountability and equity to our financial system, more power to them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); SECURITIZATION (68%); PRIVATIZATION (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (62%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); MEAT FREE DIETS (61%); LABOR UNIONS (53%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MOROCCO (90%); EGYPT (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



47 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: On Facebook, Neighborhoods as They Once Were

BYLINE: By JED LIPINSKI

 BODY:
WHEN she and her husband moved out in 1980, Kathy LaPolla DeStefano was not at all happy with Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
''The neighborhood was starting to go down the toilet, honestly,'' Ms. DeStefano, 56, an elementary school teacher, said over the telephone from her home in Coconut Creek, Fla. ''There was a lot of drugs and crime. It was an unsafe place to raise a family.''
But lately she can hardly stop reminiscing about the Williamsburg of her youth, back when Pete's Candy Store and Union Pool, now barrooms, were selling candy and pool supplies. The reason? She discovered a Facebook page, created expressly for Williamsburg natives, called ''The Neighborhood: Who Says You Can't Go Home?''
''I'll be up commenting on people's posts until 3 in the morning,'' Ms. DeStefano said. ''I'm like, 'Kathy, you have to stop this!' '' 
New York City neighborhoods have always been in nonstop flux, but many are now being frozen in time on Facebook, where current and former residents have banded together to post photographs, documents and other memorabilia of their neighborhoods as they used to be. These virtual sections of the city have drawn thousands of contributors, particularly in parts of Brooklyn like Williamsburg, Greenpoint, Flatbush and Carroll Gardens, where zoning laws, gentrification and shifting demographics have rapidly transformed the streets.
Facebook, of course, is already famous for bringing together former classmates and friends. These pages, however, are being used not only to share memories, but also to vent about change. ''The point about the old New York City neighborhoods is that they provided real social cohesion,'' said Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. ''People shared responsibilities for watching each others' children, or for keeping an eye on the property. And though new trends in urbanism try to recapture those old communal feelings, you can never recreate what emerged organically.''
Except, perhaps, online. Take Flatbush, where a neighborhood page was begun in February 2010, titled ''I Loved Being a Kid in Flatbush, Brooklyn During the 70s and 80s!!!!'' It drew more than 10,000 members in its first eight months, before a flood of requests to swap memories from earlier decades prompted the creation of a new page, simply called ''I Loved Being a Kid in Flatbush.''
''Our mission was to give people an oasis in this world we live in now, which can be so stressful, and return them to a world where we loved living,'' said Luisa Brandofino Lisciandrello, who founded the site with her boyfriend, Joe McGinn. Both 46 and natives of Flatbush, they now oversee the page's third incarnation, ''Flatbush Phantums,'' from their apartment in Park Slope.
In addition to uploading pictures of Flatbush's bygone pizza joints and movie houses, they post ''Blasts From the Past'' like Supremes songs and ''Starsky & Hutch'' episodes, evoking the feel of the old days. They raffle off local goods; this summer, a cheesecake from Junior's restaurant on Flatbush Avenue went to a former resident living in Pennsylvania.
Some contributors have even formed nonvirtual friendships. At a reunion last year organized by the site's founders, a bond formed among five middle-aged women who grew up in Flatbush but had never met. They are now known as the Fabulous Flatbush Five. ''I gave them that name,'' said Mr. McGinn, laughing. ''They're inseparable. When somebody from the page dies, they all show up at the funeral together.''
Though nostalgia typically stems from pleasant memories, the occasional unpleasantness of growing up in Brooklyn has its own bonding potential. This is clear in ''Old School Carroll Gardens,'' a Facebook page created in 2009 for the area's ''original inhabitants.'' (After the page attracted a number of viral advertisements, its creators started a new page, ''I Lived in Carroll Gardens When We Still Called it Red Hook.'')
When the Gowanus Canal was declared a Superfund site in March, one member recalled how the summer heat brought out ''the sweet smell of the canal!'' Another remembered crossing a bridge over the canal 40 years ago and seeing the ''neon green water.''
''Didn't Telly Savalas jump into that during a filming of 'Kojak'? '' she asked.
''I don't remember that, Susan, but maybe that's why he's dead!!'' another replied.
Other pages seem to have been formed in solidarity against a wave of new residents. ''For all the true Greenpointers born and raised,'' reads the description of ''Greenpoint Natives,'' a page established in March 2010 that now has 1,563 members. ''Too many blogs and pages out there for the 'new' Greenpointers,'' it explains.
Amid eulogies for departed businesses, including Truntz's butcher shop and the Socrates restaurant, commenters protest the changes brought about by ''hipsters,'' ''yuppies'' and real estate developers since a rezoning in 2005 that has revitalized the once-derelict north Brooklyn waterfront and quickened gentrification. ''These people are killing the old neighborhood!'' one member wrote last year. Another evinced the hope that locals would weather this latest phase and ''somehow turn it around to the old neighborhood it once was.''
The recent influx of newcomers to Williamsburg was what motivated Philip Anthony Franco to start ''The Neighborhood: Who Says You Can't Go Home?'' in September 2009.
Mr. Franco, 37, had moved to Middle Village, Queens, shortly after his wedding six years earlier, because ''the houses were getting too expensive.''
He returned to Williamsburg regularly to visit his mother, but became increasingly perturbed by the area's new residents. ''I was driving down Graham Avenue and one of the new persons walked right in front of my car, lost in his iPod,'' he said. ''My first post was a rant complaining about the so-called hipsters.''
Since then, the page has attracted more than 2,220 members and 5,500 posts, which amount to a kind of random, vibrant history of Williamsburg over 40 years, punctuated by hundreds of exclamation points and ''lols.''
''It's like we're all sitting around on lawn chairs on the sidewalk in summertime, laughing and telling stories,'' said Maria George, 47, a former resident now living in Ridgewood, Queens.
Though some contributors still live in Williamsburg, most have left, because of the rise in crime during the 1970s or the rise in rents since the late '90s. Many say they would move back, if only they could afford it.
Patrick Drexler, 51, who left Williamsburg for New Jersey after he and his wife divorced in 2001, said he longed to live again near Lorimer Street, where his grandfather made his home after emigrating from Germany in 1892. Mr. Drexler recently asked his ex-wife, who still lives there, what kind of place he could get for about $1,200 a month.
''She told me: 'What are you, crazy? You couldn't get a parking place for that now,' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OLD STOMPING GROUNDS: Above, Philip Anthony Franco, second from left, founder of a Facebook page on old Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and other members. Far left, members of a Flatbush page, and accessing memories. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TRENDS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CITIES (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ZONING (64%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



48 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; FIXES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Deadlines Get Results

BYLINE: By Tina Rosenberg. 
Tina Rosenberg is the co-author of Fixes, a series on social change.

 BODY:
In March 2008, a state-owned construction company in Ethiopia set a goal of persuading 70 percent of its employees to be tested for H.I.V. in 100 days. It was an astonishing thing to do in such a hurry; most of the workers were contract day laborers scattered across various construction sites who were understandably hesitant to be tested at work. But using a strategy called Rapid Results, in which a group of people chooses a project and carries it out in 100 days, the company exceeded its goal.
The same method has been used in Rwanda, where two villages doubled the number of attended births in less than 100 days and in Madagascar, where four districts quintupled the use of family planning services in 50 days. Kenya is using Rapid Results in virtually all its ministries; one campaign in the province of Nyanza circumcised 40,000 men in two months -- a crucial achievement for AIDS prevention. Villages in Ghana, Sierra Leone, Sudan and Eritrea have used Rapid Results to improve local infrastructure -- digging wells and constructing bridges, roads and schools. 
Rapid Results is an eccentric idea. Nadim Matta, a management consultant who is president of the Rapid Results Institute in Stamford, Conn., likes to say that what's missing to turn poor places into rich places isn't more information, money or technology; it's motivation and confidence. Usually the obstacle to development is not that we don't have the tools, but that we don't use the tools we have. People drag their feet. Budget approval takes forever. The bricks are stolen. The project is abandoned by new leadership. Every villager fumes: nothing gets done around here.
That list of complaints may sound familiar to anyone who has managed a business, and in fact, Rapid Results was designed to help large corporations. Five years ago, it spun off a group as a nonprofit to train people around the world to use the same method.
It works like this: A trained facilitator sits down with people in a business, organization or village to decide what needs to be done. They vote. The facilitator poses the question, if we had some money from the government or the World Bank -- say, $5,000 or perhaps $30,000 -- how could we spend it to accomplish that goal in just 100 days? The village decides how to get it done.
The 100 days may seem ridiculous at first. Groups that turn to Rapid Results have usually had the repeated experience of nothing happening in three years. Who can accomplish something significant in three months? But this is exactly the point -- it takes a project out of the realm of business as usual, and the deadline makes people do whatever it takes to meet it. Instead of waiting for the district official, people go buy the materials themselves. Women sleep on cement bags to make sure no one steals them. A village in Sudan needed bricks for a school, and the contractor wasn't producing enough. So the Rapid Results team organized a competition in the community to make bricks, and the project stayed on schedule.
''You can't control what happens 10 years down the road,'' says Mats Karlsson, a senior World Bank official who used Rapid Results in several West African countries when he was country director in Ghana. ''But 100 days everyone can control.''
This is an excerpt from Fixes, a series at nytimes.com/opinionator.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); FAMILY PLANNING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) ETHIOPIA (92%); ERITREA (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); RWANDA (79%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



49 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Maine City Casts Off Spurned Sculpture

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
The sculpture may have been doomed from the start.
In 2006, the City of Portland, Me., installed ''Tracing the Fore,'' a series of wavy-edged stainless-steel panels, in a grassy area in the middle of Boothby Square, a cobblestone crossroad a few blocks from the harbor. The city paid about $135,000 for it.
Shauna Gillies-Smith, the landscape artist who created it, wanted tall grasses to grow and billow around the waves, creating a watery effect to evoke the city's nautical history. 
But the grass never took the way it was meant to.
Shawn McCarthy owns the Dock Fore bar, which overlooked the sculpture. He described how weeds overran the grass, teenagers raced their bikes between the panels and tourists passing in duck boats laughed at the sculpture.
''Oh, God, it was all we could see,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''In one way it was a conversation piece, but the conversation just was never positive.''
''Tracing the Fore'' was removed last week, pulled from the ground by a big yellow excavator as passers-by cheered and complimented members of the removal crew on their efforts.
''I wouldn't say this is a common phenomenon,'' Harriet F. Senie, director of museum studies at City College in New York, said of the deacquisition in an e-mail. ''But it does happen, and there is usually more than one back story.''
Ms. Gillies-Smith and the city said no one had been prepared for the level of maintenance the artwork required. Someone regularly needed to get between the panels and pull out the weeds. The city looked into replacing the grass, contracting out the maintenance, even moving the sculpture. But there was little political will to save it.
''It definitely was frustrating and disappointing,'' said Ms. Gillies-Smith, who lives in Cambridge, Mass. ''At the same time, it also coincided with a challenging time in our economy. I can see that, from the city's perspective, they may well not have had the resources at this time to do a little bit of extra work.''
Alex Jaegerman, Portland's planning division director, said money was not the issue. He had a petition on his desk with about 150 signatures calling for the sculpture's removal.
It was too late to save the sculpture, he said, because too many people simply hated it.
''They called it 'Saw Blades' and 'Razorblades,' '' Mr. Jaegerman said. ''There was a strong sentiment among the community that they didn't like the piece fundamentally.''
After a series of votes and deacquisition hearings over the last year, the sculpture was gone by Wednesday, sold for $100 to a local collector who planned to install it privately. The collector also paid about $9,000 to have it removed.
To celebrate, Mr. McCarthy threw an ''Erasing the Fore'' party at his bar, with discounted drinks.
Still, Scott Tubby, a painter who manages the George Anderson Gallery, which overlooks what is now an empty space on Boothby Square, was remorseful about the loss of a sculpture that he had quietly appreciated. He wondered what would go there next.
''Flowers would be nice,'' Mr. Tubby said. ''I'm sure public art isn't going to be placed there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Portell, left, loosening a panel of ''Tracing the Fore,'' a $135,000 artwork installed by the City of Portland in 2006. Having received much criticism, it was sold for $100 to a local collector. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY REC/PORTLAND PRESS HERALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PETITIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (93%) MAINE, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



50 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Becoming Compassionately Numb

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Benedict Carey is a science reporter for The New York Times.
ABOUT the only thing tanking faster than consumer confidence and the Greek economy would be the global compassion index, if such a measure existed.
Consider just a few recent news items: Americans are balking at extending unemployment benefits, and even disaster relief was in doubt for a time last week in another of Washington's budget skirmishes; Europeans are cutting payments to pensioners; and ''there's no mood for intervention'' to avert famine in Somalia, according to one diplomat.
At a recent Republican presidential debate, the audience erupted into cheers upon hearing Texas's nation-leading rate of executions. 
Behind such sentiments lie genuine concerns, be they for law and order or personal responsibility, not to mention limited resources and a struggling economy. After all, a lowering tide grounds a lot of rescue boats, literally and psychologically.
Yet psychologists and primatologists have been arguing for years that compassion is an evolved instinct, rooted in the brain's circuitry. In a new book, ''The Better Angels of Our Nature,'' the psychologist Steven Pinker calls empathy ''the latest fashion in human nature.'' Chimpanzees show evidence of compassion, as do some monkeys; even mice seem to feel the pain of close peers. But if current trends continue, rats might become a more appropriate subject of study.
Are people today -- are societies -- really becoming somehow more callous?
The answer is no, of course not -- at least not in any fundamental sense. But compassion is a limited resource, a system rooted in cognitive networks that tire and need refueling. And it's not always rational.
Those in the so-called helping professions know as much about the limits of empathy as they do about its merits. Studies of oncology nurses, trauma workers and even marriage counselors, among others, have documented a common ''compassion fatigue'' that seems directly related to the amount of emotion shared. ''In particular, listening to people who are suffering and not being able to do enough for them puts a tremendous weight'' on caregivers, said Dr. Charles Figley, a psychologist at Tulane University.
In just the past decade, he said, professional organizations have begun to give guidelines to offset fatigue, like urging counselors to take time off, seek support from colleagues, even engage in therapy themselves.
Therapists quickly learn to recognize the signs.
Fatigue often results ''when you're seeing the same problems repeatedly, when they're chronic, and when the outcomes are not good,'' said Bret A. Moore, a former Army psychologist and co-author of ''Wheels Down: Adjusting to Life After Deployment.'' ''One sign that you're there is that you start hoping your appointments cancel.''
The public has a similar reaction to mass joblessness and starving countries alike: the problems sap the imagination in part simply because they are daunting and have not responded well to previous efforts. We have already pumped billions into each, with little visible effect. If only they would cancel their next emergency.
Still, even when rested and ready, people generally find it far harder to extend empathetic concern to a nation than to a neighbor. The helping instinct evolved to protect the household, the clan. Some psychologists make a distinction between moral intuition, the physical horror at seeing someone hit by a car or the tears of a parent whose son is kidnapped; and moral reason, the more intellectual process of grasping larger tragedies, like floods and famine.
THE former is a stronger, more emotionally visceral reaction, which is why people often show far more compassion for an individual victim than for a dozen, or 100, or an entire region.
''I sometimes make the analogy to vision,'' said Paul Slovic, a psychologist at the University of Oregon and president of a nonprofit company called Decision Research. ''We have this sophisticated capability that's rational and works well most of the time; but it can also be misleading'' -- in the same way the eye is fooled by optical illusions.
In a recent study, Dr. Slovic and two colleagues, Daniel Vastfjall and Ellen Peters, tested this relationship directly. They found that when study participants saw a picture of a single victim, a 7-year-old girl named Rokia, they donated twice as much money to a hunger charity than when told only that the organization was working to save millions.
Another group of participants was presented with both the photo and the statistics, the single fragile soul along with the larger context. They made significantly lower contributions than those presented with just a picture of Rokia. Other studies have picked up the same pattern, a falling off of concern after people respond to the suffering of a single individual. ''This is one of those results that, when people see it, they recognize it in themselves,'' Dr. Slovic said. ''But it's one thing to recognize it and another to confront it directly.''
Dr. Slovic calls this nearsightedness in compassion ''psychic numbing'' and blames it for much of the West's inertia in response to atrocities and genocide in places like Rwanda and Darfur.
Yet a strange thing happens once the action starts. Human compassion, like all highly evolved social responses, is not always helpful. Yes, it can and does move people to concern. But to be helpful on the ground amid real suffering, it may be necessary, paradoxically, to blunt empathetic instincts.
In a 2010 study, Chinese and American researchers took brain-wave readings from participants as they watched another person prick himself with a pin, or dab himself with a cotton swab. Half of the people in the study showed clear differences in their reactions to the pinprick and the swab -- a measure of their ''pain empathy response,'' as the authors describe it.
But the other half did not. They were doctors, with long experience managing sickness and pain. ''We believe they learned to inhibit this reaction somewhat,'' said Jean Decety of the University of Chicago, one of the authors. ''This frees up cognitive resources, we think,'' allowing them to do their jobs better.
In his book ''Death in Life: Survivors of Hiroshima,'' the psychiatrist Robert Jay Lifton argued that rescue workers at Hiroshima were able to function at all only because they succeeded in ''turning off'' their feelings of compassion. He called that process ''psychic numbing,'' too, and it's a reminder that empathy may be a limited resource for a reason.
Real action, when it's called for, often requires a cool heart, if not a cold one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Do we have no more room in our hearts to care for this Haitian earthquake victim? (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); MAMMALOGY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRENDS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); FAMINE (72%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); PRIMATES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); COUPLE COUNSELING (68%); ONCOLOGY (64%); NURSES & NURSING (62%); MARRIAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



51 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Coupon Sites Are a Great Deal, But Not Always to Merchants

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Like businesses across the land, the Madison Avenue spa Wellpath tried to drum up customers by running heavily discounted coupons on deal-of-the-day Web sites. But the Internet coupon fad is shrinking faster than fat from a weight-loss laser.
Coupons for the spa drew women from around the metropolitan area eager to see their bulges melt and their wrinkles removed. Once.
''Then they would get another coupon and go do it with someone else,'' Wellpath's director, Jennifer Bengel, said. ''There was no loyalty.''
Just a few months ago, daily deal coupons were the new big thing. The biggest dealmaker, Groupon, was preparing to go public at a valuation as high as $30 billion, which would have been a record amount for a start-up less than three years old. Hundreds of copycat coupon sites sprung up in Groupon's wake, including DoubleTakeDeals, YourBestDeals, DealFind, DoodleDeals, DealOn, DealSwarm and GoDailyDeals. Deal sites were widely praised as a replacement for local advertising. 
Now coupon fatigue is setting in. Groupon's public offering has repeatedly been put off amid stock market turmoil and internal missteps; the company says it is back on track, but some analysts say it may never happen. Dozens of copycats are closing, reformulating or merging, including Local Twist in San Diego, RelishNYC and Crowd Cut in Atlanta. Facebook and Yelp, two powerhouse Internet firms that had big plans for deals, quickly backed off.
Even the biggest Web retailer, Amazon.com, has had trouble gaining traction in oversaturated New York, where it started offering deals with great fanfare a month ago. There are at least 40 active coupon sites for the city, according to LocalDealSites.com.
Shopping coupons have a long history, and they will undoubtedly continue to play a significant role in local merchants' efforts to attract customers. But what has become apparent is a basic contradiction at the heart of the daily deals industry on the Internet.
The consumers were being told: You will never pay full price again. The merchants were hearing: You are going to get new customers who will stick around and pay full price. Disappointment was inevitable.
Some entrepreneurs are questioning the entire premise of the industry. Jasper Malcolmson, co-founder of the deal site Bloomspot, compares the basic deal offer with lenders' marketing subprime loans during the housing boom.
''They were giving these mortgages to every consumer regardless of whether he could handle it,'' Mr. Malcolmson said. ''But sooner or later you find that you can't make great offers to people if they're not making you money.'' He recently revamped Bloomspot to focus on merchant profitability.
During the first dot-com boom, entrepreneurs tried to develop group-buying sites. They never really worked. Then a group of outsiders far from Silicon Valley stumbled upon the idea and, to their amazement, it caught fire. Groupon was begun in Chicago in late 2008 by a group of musically and theatrically inclined young men and women who never seemed to have contemplated the Internet riches that quickly came their way.
''We were used to small audiences, like blogs that we were the creators and the only readers of,'' said Daniel Kibblesmith, a Groupon copywriter. ''Now it seems like an audience we can't wrap our heads around.''
Last December, Google offered $6 billion for Groupon. That was astonishing enough, but then Groupon snubbed the search giant, a declaration that it was really worth much more. Its valuation began to rise by about a billion dollars a week. Deal mania commenced, a boom within the larger Internet boom. If a bunch of part-time artists could do it, so could everyone. All you needed was a desk and a deal to present to the world.
''A lot of people saw an opportunity to get rich quickly,'' said the Forrester analyst Sucharita Mulpuru. ''It was a very 1999 mentality.''
By the time Groupon issued its financial documents in June, the first step to going public, the phenomenon seemed a little less promising. Contrary to what the company had maintained, it was not profitable in the traditional sense. Eighty percent of subscribers to Groupon's daily e-mails never bought a deal.
Thirty billion dollars suddenly seemed a stretch. ''They're in over their heads,'' Ms. Mulpuru said.
Groupon's legally mandated quiet period prevents it from responding to criticism of the business model, beyond a joking explanation on its official blog that it is ''prohibited from saying anything to the press that may make the company look 'good,' 'successful,' or 'not currently on fire.' ''
Merchants do derive benefits from doing a daily deal. Deals increase brand awareness, and of course there are some consumers who do indeed come back again at full price. But the cost is high: most coupon sites offer deals at 50 percent off and then take half the money the customer pays, sending the other half to the merchant.
Da Pietro Hair Studio on East 78th Street did a promotion with a second-string deal company and ended up begging it to stop running the ad. ''I said, 'No more. We don't want your clients,' '' said the salon's manager, Rosanna Kabashi.
Even worse from the merchants' point of view, the popularity of the coupon sites fed a relentless bargain-hunting mentality among customers that did not use them. ''Every day, we get an e-mail or phone call saying, Can we match someone else's price?'' said Ms. Bengel of Wellpath. ''We're not Wal-Mart.''
And the long-term reputation of the merchant may be at risk, according to a new study by researchers at Boston University and Harvard that analyzed thousands of Groupon and Living Social deals. The researchers found that fans of daily deals were on average hard to please. After they ate at the restaurant or visited the spa, they went on Yelp and grumbled about it. This pulled down the average Yelp rating by as much as half a point.
''Offering a Groupon puts a merchant's reputation at risk,'' said John Byers, a professor of computer science at Boston University who worked on the project. ''The audience being reached may be more critical,'' he said, ''than their typical audience or have a more tenuous fit with the merchant.''
Even Amazon, the retailing juggernaut, has found quick riches are elusive. Its response in New York has been tepid. A subscription to The New York Observer had 84 takers, as did a ''Sex and the City'' tour. A Latin cooking class attracted 61 people, an Asian bistro 109.
Kevin Walters, manager of the Creole Restaurant and Music Supper Club on Third Avenue in Manhattan, said he was ''very, very surprised'' to sell only 77 deals through Amazon. ''It should have been huge,'' he said. Amazon declined to comment.
Despite the lackluster response, Mr. Walters will probably try another coupon. ''I'm in East Harlem,'' he said. ''If the rest of the economy is shaky, then East Harlem is depressed. One way or another, I need to get people here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In June, Groupon was preparing to go public at a valuation as high as $30 billion, but the offering has repeatedly been put off. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 JENNIFER BENGEL: The director of Wellpath, a spa in Manhattan that posted heavily discounted coupons on deal-of-the-day Web sites and experienced increased interest, but few repeat customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL COUPONS (92%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (91%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (78%); GROUP BUYING (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); CITIES (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (66%); GROUPON INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (66%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



52 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SPOTLIGHT BRIDGEHAMPTON; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: A House That Reflects An Island's History

BYLINE: By AILEEN JACOBSON

 BODY:
THE house at Montauk Highway and Ocean Road in Bridgehampton started out as a simple farmhouse around 1824, before being transformed in 1840 by a noted portrait artist into a handsome example of Greek Revival architecture, complete with four tall columns in front. In the 1880s, it became a boardinghouse for visitors to the ''summer colony'' that had taken root in the Hamptons. By 1894, it had been altered again, this time into an elegant inn, and then reverted to a private residence in the 1950s. 
''You can trace the social history of that part of Long Island by tracing the physical development of the house,'' said Michael Devonshire, director of conservation for Jan Hird Pokorny Associates, an architectural firm in Manhattan. Mr. Devonshire is overseeing the building's restoration from dilapidated mansion to historical showcase that will serve as headquarters for the Bridgehampton Historical Society, with an education center, exhibition galleries, a gift shop and offices. The place is most commonly called the Nathaniel Rogers House, after the painter of miniature portraits who gave it architectural distinction.
The renovation is going slowly because money is hard to come by in the current economy, said H. Kevin Miserocchi, a board member of the historical society and a chairman of its fund-raising committee, which aims to raise $4.5 million to $5 million. The immediate need is for $300,000 to $400,000 by the end of the year to refurbish and restore the windows; otherwise, some may have to be covered by plywood to keep out snow and animals.
This chapter in the house's evolution began in 2003, said John Eilertsen, the society's executive director, when its then-owner, James B. Hopping, a descendant of the innkeepers who had been living with his family in a small part of the house, sold it to the Town of Southampton (of which Bridgehampton is a part) for $3.5 million.
The historical society contributed $550,000, made up of donations from 270 individuals, toward the purchase, and was given stewardship of the house. The first phase of construction, which started in January and will cost nearly $2 million, was paid for largely by grants from the town and from New York State, along with $350,000 from the historical society, he said. Much of the work so far has been structural, like repairing the foundation and putting five roofs on the sprawling mansion.
''We envision several rooms with changing exhibitions'' and a recording studio in which to conduct historical interviews with community residents, said Dr. Eilertsen, who holds a Ph.D. in folklore and folk life from the University of Pennsylvania. He said he hoped the society will be able to move in by 2014.
AILEEN JACOBSON
For information about the restoration of the Nathaniel Rogers House: (631) 537-1088 or bridgehamptonhistoricalsociety.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RENOVATIONS: The Nathaniel Rogers House began as a farmhouse in the 1800s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KURT HIRSCHBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); FOLKLORE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



53 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Super People

BYLINE: By JAMES ATLAS

 BODY:
James Atlas is the president of Atlas & Co., a publishing company. He is at work on a book about biography.
A BROCHURE arrives in the mail announcing this year's winners of a prestigious fellowship to study abroad. The recipients are allotted a full page each, with a photo and a thick paragraph chronicling their achievements. It's a select group to begin with, but even so, there doesn't seem to be anyone on this list who hasn't mastered at least one musical instrument; helped build a school or hospital in some foreign land; excelled at a sport; attained fluency in two or more languages; had both a major and a minor, sometimes two, usually in unrelated fields (philosophy and molecular science, mathematics and medieval literature); and yet found time -- how do they have any? -- to enjoy such arduous hobbies as mountain biking and white-water kayaking.
Let's call this species Super Person. 
Do we have some anomalous cohort here? Achievement freaks on a scale we haven't seen before? Has our hysterically competitive, education-obsessed society finally outdone itself in its tireless efforts to produce winners whose abilities are literally off the charts? And if so, what convergence of historical, social and economic forces has been responsible for the emergence of this new type? Why does Super Person appear among us now?
Perhaps there's an evolutionary cause, and these robust intellects reflect the leap in the physical development of humans that we ascribe to better diets, exercise and other forms of health-consciousness. (Stephen Jay Gould called this mechanism ''extended scope.'') All you have to do is watch a long rally between Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal to recognize -- if you're old enough -- how much faster the sport has become over the last half century.
The Super Person training for the college application wars is the academic version of the Super Person slugging it out on the tennis court. For wonks, Harvard Yard is Arthur Ashe Stadium.
Or maybe it's a function of economics. Writing in a recent issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education, John Quiggin, a visiting professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University, argues that the Great Academic Leap Forward ''is both a consequence of, and a contributor to, the growing inequality and polarization of American society.'' Nearly 25 percent of the annual income in America goes to 1 percent of the population, creating an ever-wealthier upper class. Yet there's no extra space being made in our best colleges for high-achieving students. ''Taken together,'' Professor Quiggin points out, ''the Ivy League and other elite institutions educate something less than 1 percent of the U.S. college-age population'' -- a percentage that's going to shrink further as the population of college-bound students continues to grow.
Preparing for Super Personhood begins early. ''We see kids who've been training from an early age,'' says Charles Bardes, chairman of admissions at Weill Cornell Medical College. ''The bar has been set higher. You have to be at the top of the pile.''
And to clamber up there you need a head start. Thus the well-documented phenomenon of helicopter parents. In her influential book ''Perfect Madness: Motherhood in the Age of Anxiety,'' Judith Warner quotes a mom who gave up her career to be a full-time parent: ''The children are the center of the household and everything goes around them. You want to do everything and be everything for them because this is your job now.'' Bursting with pent-up energy, the mothers transfer their shelved career ambitions to their children. Since that book was published in 2005, the situation has only intensified. ''One of my daughter's classmates has a pilot's license; 12-year-olds are taking calculus,'' Ms. Warner said last week.
REMEMBER the Dumb Kid in your math class who couldn't understand what a square root was? Gone. Vanished from the earth like the stegosaurus. If your child is at an elite school, there are no dumb kids in his or her math class -- only smart and smarter.
Even the most brilliant students have to work harder now to make their nut. The competition for places in the upper tier of higher education is a lot tougher than it was in the 1960s and '70s, when having good grades and SAT scores in the high 1200s was generally sufficient to get you into a respectable college. My contemporaries love to talk about how they would have been turned down by the schools they attended if they were applying today. This is no illusion: 19 percent of applicants were admitted to my Ivy League school for the class of '71; 6 percent were admitted for the class of '15.
Graduate and professional school statistics are just as daunting. Dr. Bardes told me that he routinely interviewed students with perfect or near perfect grade point averages and SATs -- enough to fill the class several times over. Last year 5,722 applicants competed for 101 places at Weill Cornell; the odds of getting in there are even worse than those of getting your 3-year-old into a New York City private school.
''Applicant pools are stronger and deeper,'' concurs Stephen Singer, the former director of college counseling at Horace Mann, the New York City private school renowned for its driven students. ''It used to be that if you were editor of the paper or president of your class you could get in almost anywhere,'' Mr. Singer says. ''Now it's 'What did you do as president? How did you make the paper special?' Kids file stories from Bosnia or El Salvador on their summer vacations.'' Such students are known in college admissions circles as ''pointy'' -- being well-rounded doesn't cut it anymore. You need to have a spike in your achievement chart.
AND it doesn't hurt to be from an exotic foreign land. ''Colleges are reaching out to a broader range of people around the world today,'' says William R. Fitzsimmons, Harvard's dean of undergraduate admissions. ''They go to Africa and China. If you want first-class mathematicians, try looking in Bulgaria.'' In case they miss someone, many colleges now have recruiting agents in other countries who are paid commissions -- by both the parents and the college -- to help ''place'' those students. Globalization comes to the college admissions world.
Just as the concentration of wealth at the very top reduces wealth at the bottom, the aggressive hoarding of intellectual capital in the most sought-after colleges and universities has curtailed our investment in less prestigious institutions. There's no curricular trickle-down effect. The educator E. D. Hirsch Jr. has pointed to a trend he labels the Matthew Effect, citing the Biblical injunction: '' 'For unto every one that hath shall be given and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.' We've lifted up rich kids beyond their competence,'' he says, ''while the verbal skills of the black underclass continue to decline.''
Affluent families can literally buy a better resume. ''In a bad economy, the demographic shift has the potential to reinforce a socio-economic gap,'' says Todd Breyfogle, who oversaw the honors program at the University of Denver and is now director of seminars at the Aspen Institute. ''Only those families who can help their students be more competitive will have students who can get into elite institutions.''
Schools are now giving out less scholarship money in the tight economy, favoring students who can pay full freight. Meanwhile, Super People jet off on Mom and Dad's dime to archaeological digs in the Negev desert, when they might once have opted to be counselors in training at Camp Shewahmegon for the summer. And the privilege of laboring as a volunteer in a day care center in Guatemala -- ''service learning,'' as it's sometimes called -- doesn't come cheap once you tote up the air fare, room and board.
Colleges collude in the push to upgrade talent. ''It's a huge industry,'' Mr. Breyfogle says. ''Harvard has a whole office devoted to preparing applicants for the Rhodes and Marshall scholarships.'' At its worst, this kind of coaching results in candidates who are treated as what he calls ''management projects.''
''They've been put in the hands of makeover experts who have a stake in making them look better than they are, leveraging their achievement,'' Mr. Breyfogle says.
''We are concerned about that,'' confirmed Jeff Rickey, head of admissions at St. Lawrence University, whom I tracked down at the National Association for College Admission Counseling conference in New Orleans. ''If they joined a club, when did they join it? Maybe they play 15 instruments, but when they list them out, the amount of time they spent on each isn't that much.'' Mr. Breyfogle is also on the alert for resume stuffing. ''They've worked at an orphanage in Katmandu, but it turns out it was over Christmas break,'' he gave as an example. ''It's easier to be amazing now.'' All you need is money.
O.K., so maybe some Super People aren't so Super. But the fact is, they do a lot of good. When I read about a student who has worked at a mental health clinic in Bolivia or founded a farmers' market in a low-income neighborhood in Washington, I'm impressed. (All we did in college, I seem to recall, is smoke dope and play pool.)
And it's not as if the Super People get to slack off when they graduate. There's too much competition.
In the end, the whole idea of Super Person is kind of exhausting to contemplate. All that striving, working, doing. A line of Whitman's quoted by Dr. Bardes in our conversation has stayed with me: ''I loaf and invite my soul.''
Isn't that where the real work gets done?

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MARK TODD) (SR1
 SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); PUBLISHING (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); EXTREME SPORTS (75%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (72%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (70%); GIFTED EDUCATION (70%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (66%); TENNIS (61%); SPORTS (61%); CYCLING (53%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (52%)

PERSON: NOVAK DJOKOVIC (50%); RAFAEL NADAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



54 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Cylinders Missing, but Not Missed

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
TESTED 2012 BMW Z4 sDrive 28i
WHAT IS IT? The familiar roadster with a radically downsized engine.
HOW MUCH? $49,525 base price. As tested, $58,225 including M Sport package ($3,900), premium package ($3,300), metallic paint ($550) and premium sound ($950).
WHAT MAKES IT RUN? A 2-liter turbo 4 with 240 horsepower and a lusty 260 pound-feet of torque. 
HOW FAST IS IT? Quicker than the 6-cylinder model it replaces, at an estimated 5.5 seconds from 0 to 60 m.p.h.
IS IT THIRSTY? Federal estimates aren't final, but BMW expects a mileage gain of 15 to 20 percent, to roughly 21/32 m.p.g. in city and highway.
ALTERNATIVES:Audi TT, Chevrolet Corvette, Mercedes-Benz SLK, Porsche Boxster.
LET the experiment begin: with its new 4-cylinder engine, BMW is betting that Americans can focus on the green road ahead rather than what's under the hood.
BMW, the Zen master of the in-line 6, is going the downsizing, fuel-saving route in the Z4 roadster, switching out its base engine -- a 3-liter, naturally aspirated smoothie -- for a 2-liter turbo 4. It's the Bavarians' first attempt to sell a 4-banger in the United States since 1999.
As guinea pigs go, they don't get much more cuddly than the Z4, a pretty hardtop convertible that's especially suited to this 4-cylinder tryout. The test gets trickier in October, when BMW will offer this TwinPower engine in the much-larger 528i, the lowest-priced version of the 5 Series sedan.
For BMW fans addicted to 6 cylinders who would howl ''bait and switch,'' the company has technology and numbers on its side. The new engine is stronger, smaller, lighter and drinks much less. TwinPower's bag of tricks includes direct injection and a slick twin-scroll turbocharger: exhaust gases from pairs of cylinders are kept separate and fed into dual turbine scrolls, reducing turbulence and the lag between a punch of the gas pedal and a whistling rush of turbo power.
And that's some rush. With 240 horsepower, the engine has 15 fewer horses than the former 6, but has gained 40 pound-feet of torque. Its 260 pound-feet peaks at a remarkably low 1,250 r.p.m., compared with 2,750 for the 6.
BMW next bolted on its excellent 8-speed automatic transmission, although a 6-speed manual is optional.
Fuel conservation measures include a start-stop system that shuts down the engine at traffic lights, though it restarts with a ragged feel; the driver can bypass the system with a button.
BMW says the engine, with the 6-speed manual, shaves 0.1 second from the old model's 0-to-60 m.p.h. time, at 5.5 seconds. The company claims a 0.4-second gain, at 5.6 seconds, with the automatic.
Spur the engine as intended and there's surprising muscle either around town or on the open road. And this 4-banger sounds terrific; a chesty 7,000-r.p.m. rasp replaces the 6-cylinder's soothing chamber music.
Considering the engine's happy tune and flexible power, I'm curious whether this Z4 will create a ''don't ask don't tell'' situation: if customers don't inquire, or peek under the hood, will sales associates happily sell this Z4 without mentioning the missing 2 cylinders?
For relatively brisk duty, the BMW's lovely silhouette, deluxe interior and smooth ride make for a fine companion. Yet the Z4 chassis still isn't fully in tune with the rest of the car.
The harder you push, the more the BMW loses the thread. The body rolls, the steering goes light and surrenders, the back end bobbles. Even with my test car's M Sport package -- including larger 18-inch wheels and driver-adjustable suspension, steering and throttle -- the BMW couldn't match the hang-on thrills of the Porsche Boxster or the new, remarkably agile Mercedes SLK.
The unfathomable part is how BMW routinely designs two-ton sport sedans and 2.5-ton S.U.V.'s that deliver pure handling magic, but cannot manage the trick with a small two-seater.
As always, Chez Bimmer doesn't serve free lunch. At $49,525 to start, the 28i costs $2,150 more than last year's 6-cylinder model. That premium does include new features, including Bluetooth, Xenon headlamps and a trunk pass-through.
Still, the 28i far undercuts the 300-horsepower 35i (at $56,025) or the 335-horse 35is (at $65,075), while crushing their 17/24 m.p.g. economy. In comparison with those models, this Z4's math is easy: Subtract 2 cylinders, save thousands in payments and fuel bills and draw just as many stares.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LESS FILLING: The Z4 sDrive 28i has the first 4-cylinder engine BMW has sold here since 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (92%); SEDANS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (71%); MAMMALS (69%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



55 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Businesslike Quarterback Has Stirred the Bills

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -- The groundwork for the predictable career on Wall Street had already been laid -- the coursework in economics, the internship at a Boston hedge fund. Then Ryan Fitzpatrick's college coach surprised him with a suggestion after his junior season: spend a long weekend that summer at the Manning family's passing academy in Louisiana.
That is not what most Harvard students do before their senior years. By then, Fitzpatrick's friends were already lining up job interviews for their futures in finance. Until his coach, Tim Murphy, thought Fitzpatrick should spend a few days measuring himself against quarterbacks from the powerhouse college conferences, that is what Fitzpatrick imagined he would do, too. When Murphy broached the idea of the passing academy, Fitzpatrick was so surprised -- ''Kind of refreshing,'' Murphy said -- that he did not immediately understand why Murphy wanted him to go. Harvard had given Fitzpatrick insight into how he would hold up in capitalism's crucible. The Manning camp, Murphy hoped, would give Fitzpatrick perspective on how he would rank among elites in an entirely different competition. 
''I figured on the typical Ivy League route, go to Wall Street for two years, figure out your life, work crazy hours and then move on to somewhere else,'' Fitzpatrick said last week. ''I would have always loved to be in the N.F.L., that was always a dream, but I'm a realistic guy as well. So I don't think I ever thought it was reality up to that point.''
But in the sweltering heat of a bayou summer in 2004, Fitzpatrick, who had not been widely recruited out of Gilbert, Ariz. -- the state universities did not seem terribly interested -- discovered that when he threw alongside quarterbacks from the Southeastern Conference and the N.F.L., he was not that different. Quarterbacking in the N.F.L., his current coach says, is about decision making and accuracy. Fitzpatrick excelled at both, completing 59.9 percent of his passes in college and leading Harvard to a 10-0 season as a senior. Goldman Sachs could wait. Fitzpatrick would prepare for the scouting combine, where he got a taste of the conventional wisdom about his career choice.
''When I would go and train at some of the combine training centers, those people were like: 'What does this Harvard kid think he's doing?' 'Why is he thinking he can do this?' '' Fitzpatrick said.
That is how the most charming story of the N.F.L. season -- Harvard quarterback, aware of the outsize attention his pedigree receives, becomes the emblematic leader of a 3-0 Buffalo Bills team whose talent and town have been overlooked -- got its start.
''I've never seen the kid fail at anything,'' Murphy said.
Fitzpatrick carved himself into a combine legend by completing the Wonderlic assessment test in nine minutes (players are allowed 12 minutes), and reportedly scoring an unconfirmed 48 of 50. But what Fitzpatrick, who was taken in the seventh round of the 2005 draft by the St. Louis Rams, and the Bills have accomplished in the first month of the season might be even more startling.
A team that has missed the playoffs for 11 years and had six straight losing seasons, that did not win its first game last year until Week 10, that is filled with undrafted players (receiver David Nelson), underappreciated contributors (running back Fred Jackson, who is outperforming two running backs the Bills have drafted in the last two years) and other teams' castoffs (Fitzpatrick, who was let go by the Rams and Bengals, among others), now sits atop the A.F.C. East. Improbably, the Bills also lead the league in points a game, with 37.7, outgunning the New England Patriots last week to legitimize a stunning turnaround.
''Guys like that, you get a chip on your shoulder that you have to prove yourself, you may feel you have to do that more than a first-round draft pick or a name guy,'' tight end Scott Chandler said. ''I know I, personally, have felt that being cut from three other teams, you know you can play, so when you get the opportunity you want to prove to other teams and personnel people that you can play.''
Amid the rubble of the 4-12 finish last season, there were shards of hope. Four of the losses were by just 3 points to playoff teams, three of them in overtime. Linebacker Shawne Merriman, still the biggest name on the Bills, was on teams that were loaded with talent in San Diego. And he insists that when he got to Buffalo in the middle of last season, he discovered a team that was not nearly as bad as its record. He watched film and saw a missed play here, a close call there and determined that the Bills were just a few fixes away from competitiveness.
But a franchise steeped in losing needed a culture change, and Coach Chan Gailey had just gotten started. He removed televisions from the weight room, a signal that the Bills would be all business. After just two games last season, he dumped the starting quarterback Trent Edwards, a third-round draft pick of the previous staff, in favor of Fitzpatrick, even though he says he did not know at the time if Fitzpatrick was capable of performing the way he is now.
''I'm getting way too many questions about how that has happened,'' Gailey said. ''We got a bunch of guys that try to get better, they understand what we're trying to get done. I think time together has a lot to do with it, and I really do think the maturation of our offensive line has really helped us. We have a better idea of what our players can do, so maybe we're putting them in a better position. And Fitz is playing very, very well right now.''
Fitzpatrick, the rare player who wears his wedding ring on the field, still is called Fitzgerald, even by stadium announcers, and has remained so unassuming that when he met Murphy for dinner a few years ago, he became excited when Murphy brought him some Harvard sweats. But around him, a transformation has occurred, for the team and the town. Fitzpatrick said last week that his brother, watching a game at a bar in Santa Fe, was asked for his autograph. When Brandon Fitzpatrick explained it was Ryan who was the Bills' quarterback, the man said he knew, he wanted Brandon's autograph because he was Ryan's brother.
The morning news in Buffalo last week discussed the latest odds that the Bills could play that other N.F.L. underdog -- the undefeated Detroit Lions -- in the Super Bowl. Before its home opener this season, the team confirmed it had hit a 10-year low in season-ticket sales. But the Bills' chief executive, Russ Brandon, said the team's revival had spurred a spike in individual-game ticket sales, particularly for the game against the Jets on Nov. 6.
''Sales have been brisk, and excitement is at a very high peak,'' Brandon said.
The Bills still have a long way to go before they match the heroics, or the capacity for heartbreak, of the 1990s Bills, who lost four consecutive Super Bowls. This team could be undone by a lack of experience.
After playing the Bengals on Sunday, they face more tests against the Eagles, the Giants, the Redskins and the Jets before embarking on a three-game trip against Dallas, Miami and the Jets. And then there is the high-wire manner of their two most recent victories, coming back from three scores to beat the Raiders and the Patriots.
For Fitzpatrick, coming from behind is the least of his worries. Murphy watched the comeback against the Patriots last Sunday and recalled that Fitzpatrick had led Harvard back from two 21-point deficits, one in his first start as a freshman and one as a senior to preserve the undefeated season. He did it again in his first appearance in an N.F.L. game in 2005.
''People ask me why does that happen, and I'm like this,'' Fitzpatrick said, holding his hand out to indicate that his emotions are a flat line.
''After we won the Raiders game, I was excited, but it's very hard to get down. And it's very hard to get me excited.''
In Buffalo this season, he might be the only one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ryan Fitzpatrick helped lead Harvard to a 10-0 record as a senior. He and the Bills are 3-0. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM SZCZERBOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (SP4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (74%); SPORTS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



56 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Every Action Produces Overreaction

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
During their first week, members of Occupy Wall Street, the ideologically vague and strategically baffling effort to redress social inequities, put together a library on the north end of Zuccotti Park whose disparate offerings included ''Last Exit to Brooklyn''; Gay Talese's article in The New Yorker on the collaboration of Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga; and Abbott's Digest of New York Statutes and Reports, Volumes 4, 9, 33 and 34. By the middle of last week, as the numbers entrenched in the park grew, copies of ''Animal Farm,'' Barbara Ehrenreich's ''Nickel and Dimed'' and ''Meltdown,'' a book outlining the 2008 financial crisis, were well placed. Specific ambitions still had not emerged, but a new intensity had begun to replace the limp theatrics.
The New York Police Department could not have intended to operate as a public relations arm for Occupy Wall Street, but its invidious treatment of the demonstrators last weekend went a tremendous way toward galvanizing sympathy for the group's good but porous intentions. Video widely seen on the Internet of a high-ranking officer, later identified as Deputy Inspector Anthony Bologna, attacking what appeared to be docile protesters with pepper spray prompted public outrage and investigations by the Internal Affairs Bureau of the Police Department and Manhattan prosecutors. 
Early Monday evening, helicopters flew over Wall Street, in anticipation of what -- excessively boisterous readings of Orwell? -- was hardly clear. The group's march on the financial district's Luxury Night Out was still a day away. The Broad Street outpost of Hermes was in no imminent jeopardy.
Like a toddler who throws his food on the floor, gets in trouble and then just does it again, the Police Department overreacts to peaceful protests, invites ire and then reprises its actions the next time it encounters agitation. Inspector Bologna is a defendant in lawsuits claiming wrongful arrests at protests during the Republican National Convention in 2004.
Among the approximately 600 arrests made since the protest began, on Sept. 17, were about 500 on Saturday night as 1,500 or so protesters walked across the Brooklyn Bridge. On Wednesday, three had been arrested for that decidedly questionable menace: loitering while wearing a mask. While the police would do well to avoid criminalizing costumes, the department would do even better to remember that when people are carted away by law enforcement merely for carrying cameras -- as one seemed to be in another well-circulated image -- more cameras are sure to come.
On Wednesday, Michael Moore asked that his interview with Lawrence O'Donnell on MSNBC be filmed among the protesters at the park. In the preceding 48 hours, the endorsement of the left's ruling class had been secured: encouraging words from Noam Chomsky and Naomi Klein had been sent to the group; visits were paid by Susan Sarandon and Cornel West.
In the matter of demonstrations, the Police Department has, in fact, had a long and dramatic history of assuring the outcome it seemingly would most like to avoid. During the student uprisings at Columbia in 1968, aimed at the university's affiliation with a research group linked to the Defense Department and at the construction of a university gym in Morningside Park, police brutality resulted in a powerful escalation of the movement.
''In the beginning, it did not have broad support on campus,'' Alex S. Vitale, a Brooklyn College sociologist specializing in police response to protest, told me. ''But when the cops started beating people up, things really changed.''
On April 30 that year, a police raid injured more than 100 students, students called a strike, and the campus shut down for the remainder of the semester. Footage of the events documents radicalization in progress. ''I was a nonviolent student,'' one young man witnessing the aggression says. ''I couldn't care what happened. I was completely neutral. I am not neutral anymore. I'm going to occupy a building tomorrow.''
The events in Tompkins Square Park in 1988 left the department with another black mark in its history of responding to civic unrest -- 114 years after thousands of laborers, many unemployed as the result of an economic depression that began in 1873, were greeted by patrolmen flailing clubs on the same ground. Twenty-three years ago, demonstrators were responding to the imposition of a park curfew. Officers battled with protesters for hours in the middle of a summer night -- and then, too, a videographer, Clayton Patterson, caught the mayhem, filming police officers, some of whom had removed their name tags, beating protesters and onlookers.
The actions prompted consternation on the part of the police commissioner at the time, Benjamin Ward, and provided an important catalyst for a renewed effort to create a civilian review board to oversee police conduct. In 1992, off-duty police officers rallied at City Hall against civilian review, but they were so unruly that they contributed to its eventual passing. ''The image of drunken police officers behaving badly did not sit well with the public,'' Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, told me.
In his academic work, Professor Vitale has argued that civilian review is in itself insufficient because it deals only with individual complaints, when the problem is systemic. Over the past decade, the Police Department has responded to protesters with a style that emphasizes micromanagement and obsessive pre-emption.
During the Iraq war protest on the East Side in February 2003, when more than 350 people were arrested, the movements of demonstrators were so narrowly circumscribed, and access to the event so curtailed, that matters became more chaotic than they might otherwise have been. Police officers on horseback rammed into trapped crowds.
The encampment in Zuccotti Park is likely to remain indefinitely. At this point, any attempt on the part of the police to close things down could only result in the resurrection of Emma Goldman. Brookfield Properties, the developer that owns the land and offers it for public use, is presumably sending few notes of gratitude to the police. In a statement, a spokesman said the company was ''extremely concerned with the conditions that have been created by those currently occupying the park,'' and was ''actively working with the City of New York to address these conditions and restore the park to its intended purpose.''
Good luck with that.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAMERA-READY: A police officer grappled with a protester on Sept. 19. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
THE WAY IT WAS: Police officers clashed with protesters in 1988, above, at Tompkins Square Park in the East Village and in 1968 at Columbia, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); ARRESTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); HELICOPTERS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



57 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Reading the Writing On the Envelope

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Pony Express was famous for moving mail at astounding speed. Missouri to California in only 10 days! A triumph.
It was also short-lived. Established in 1860, it lasted only as long as the territory it covered lacked the telegraph. Humans and horses could not match the speed of electrical signals. So when the transcontinental telegraph was completed in 1861, the company's three investors reacted swiftly. It was shut down after only 18 months.
Now, 150 years later, the United States Postal Service is engaged in another race with technology, one it can't possibly win. But because the service is a quasi-independent government agency, it continues to maintain the huge human and mechanical infrastructure that was assembled for a pre-Internet age. 
The Postal Service proudly proclaims just how big it is. It has 574,000 employees, making it the nation's second-largest civilian employer, after Wal-Mart. The service runs 215,625 vehicles, the world's largest civilian fleet. Those vehicles traverse 1.25 billion miles annually and consume 399 million gallons of fuel. Its carriers serve 151 million homes, businesses and post office boxes.
And the Postal Service can't resist a tacit little boast at the end of that long list of big numbers: It receives zero tax dollars for its efforts.
Bravo! But one could point out that this is the same Postal Service that posted multibillion-dollar deficits in the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 fiscal years; another is expected to be reported for the 2011 fiscal year, which ended Friday. It is curious that 2006, the year before this dismal run of losses, happened to be the very year when total mail volume peaked. In 2006, some 213.1 billion pieces were processed. In 2010, the total was just 171 billion.
Stamped mail is the category that has declined most steeply in the last decade -- 47 percent since 2001. ''Standard'' mail, the official euphemism for junk mail that until 1996 was called third class, dropped only 8 percent over the same period.
The decline in mail volume has been accompanied by widening losses: $8.5 billion for 2010, and a projection of nearly $10 billion for 2011.
The Postal Service, to its credit, acknowledges that it faces what Patrick R. Donahoe, the postmaster general, calls a new reality. In releasing results for the quarter ended June 30, the service described how ''electronic diversion continues to cause reductions in first-class mail.'' Revenue from first-class mail declined 8.7 percent from the period a year earlier.
The postal unions avert their eyes. They say that the service ran into trouble solely because Congress has required huge payments for future retirees' health care costs. Silly me: I thought funding benefits fully was a good thing.
On its Web site, the American Postal Workers Union disputes the notion that ''hard-copy mail is destined to be replaced by electronic messages.'' Mail volume was down, it says, because its principal component -- advertising -- had fallen in the recession. ''As the nation and the world emerge from economic stagnation, hard-copy mail volume will expand,'' it asserts. But that, of course, ignores the rise of the Internet, and its ever-growing use for checking bills or sending payments -- with no need for that army of 500,000.
The Internet can't be used to tele-transport packages, of course, and our use of package delivery services, including the Postal Service's, has grown with e-commerce. But the Postal Service is running large deficits, bumping up against the $15 billion limit it is permitted to borrow, and is on the brink of default unless Congress comes to the rescue.
Is this where the Postal Service wants to make its stand, as a package delivery service, one among several providers? Does anyone really care whether the Postal Service or U.P.S. drops the package at the doorstep?
A. Lee Fritschler, a professor of public policy at George Mason University and a former chairman of the Postal Regulatory Commission, says our Postal Service should be viewed not as a communications medium but as a broadcasting medium, spraying identical messages, in the form of ''standard'' mail, far and wide. If Congress had to bail out the Postal Service, it would effectively be subsidizing the private interests that use the service to distribute advertising cheaply. ''Why on earth should our government be subsidizing a broadcast medium?'' Professor Fritschler asks.
Some say subsidies are perfectly defensible if the service fulfills a noble civic function. Richard R. John, a historian at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, points out that the post office ran a deficit during most years between the 1830s and the 1960s. But today, when junk mail is predominant, ''postal management is unable to articulate a compelling vision of the public good,'' he says.
In 1861, it was easy to decommission the Pony Express, a technologically obsolete, privately owned delivery service. A century and a half later, we have a delivery service whose raison d'etre is rapidly vanishing before our eyes. This one is owned by all of us, however, and we are paralyzed, unable to decide what to do.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JACK OHMAN/THE OREGONIAN, VIA TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); HORSES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (64%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



58 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE FOOD & DRINK ISSUE; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2526 words

HEADLINE: Mysteries Solved, Riddles Explained and Readers' Questions Answered

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAN

 BODY:
How Can You Tell if Food Is Genetically Engineered?
You can't, unless you're willing to move to Europe or Japan, where the government requires that it be labeled. Ours doesn't, so there's no way to tell. This is despite the fact that 80 to 90 percent of Americans tell pollsters they want it labeled, and Barack Obama, as a candidate, once promised to make it happen. But the industry is afraid you won't buy genetically modified foods if they're labeled -- and they're probably right. Why would you? So far at least, genetically modified food offers the consumer no tangible benefit. In America, the only way to be certain you're not buying genetically engineered food is to buy organic; the U.S.D.A. rules for organic prohibit it.
What Will Our Food System Be Like in 100 Years? 
My best guess is that the food system will look very different in 100 years, for the simple reason that the present one is -- in the precise sense of the word -- unsustainable. It depends on fossil fuels that we can't depend on and exacts a steeper price in human and environmental health than we can afford. So it will change, whether we want it to or not. We certainly won't be eating nine ounces of meat per person per day, as Americans do now -- there won't be enough feed grain, worldwide, to continue that feast, and presumably we will have faced up to meat-eating's disastrous toll on the environment. If we haven't, we'll have much bigger problems on our plate than what to have for dinner.
How Do We Take Into Account Cultural Differences When Telling People What They 'Should' Be Eating?
I have yet to hear of a traditional diet -- from any culture, anywhere in the world -- that is not substantially healthier than the ''standard American diet.'' The more we honor cultural differences in eating, the healthier we will be.
What Do You Think of In Vitro Meat?
I think I'll pass, but probably won't have to. Cloning meat, or making it in an incubator, is an interesting thought experiment for animal rights philosophers and journalists, but I doubt we'll actually see it on menus any time soon. Meat has a lot more to it than muscle cells -- not to put you off your feed, but you also have to get the fat and sinews, the connective tissue and the blood right to make it organoleptically acceptable. To date, our food scientists have not demonstrated they have the technical or aesthetic skills to simulate real foods with notable success. I will be surprised if they come up with synthetic meat that is as close to the real thing as margarine is to butter. Think about baby formula: we've been working on that one for a century and a half, and for reasons we don't totally understand, it still doesn't do all that genuine mother's milk does. We flatter ourselves by thinking we can outdo or even approximate nature's foods. Though come to think of it, it might be possible to simulate a chicken nugget, which is already once removed from the real thing.
Is Frozen Produce as Nutritious as Fresh?
Frozen vegetables and fruits are a terrific and economical option when fresh is unavailable or too expensive. The nutritional quality is just as good -- and sometimes even better, because the produce is often picked and frozen at its peak of quality. The only rap is that freezing collapses the cell walls of certain fruits and vegetables, at some cost to their crunch. But this has no bearing on nutrition. Do look for frozen foods with a single ingredient -- no fake herb-butter sauce!
Why Is the Expiration Date on Organic Milk Sometimes a Couple of Months Away While Regular Milk Has a Sell-By Date Normally Within a Week or 10 Days?
Much of the organic milk in your market is ''ultrapasteurized'' rather than simply ''pasteurized'' -- that is, it has been heated to a higher temperature in order to extend its shelf life. This is a holdover from when organic milk sat longer on grocery shelves. Some nutritionists believe that ultrapasteurization damages the quality of milk; many cheese makers won't use it. In some busier markets, you can find organic milk that has not been ultrapasteurized.
What Must Government Do to Make Healthful Food as Affordable as Its Evil Counterpart?
This is the $64,000 question. There are certainly steps the government can take to make healthful food somewhat less expensive: underwrite farmers' transition to organic and other kinds of sustainable agriculture; support the renaissance in local meat production by making it easier to build and run small slaughterhouses; use crop subsidies to reward farmers for diversifying their fields and growing real food rather than ''commodity crops'' like corn and soy; enforce federal antitrust laws to break up the big meatpackers and seed companies.
But these measures will never make high-quality food as cheap as industrial food, some of which will only get more expensive if we take the steps needed to civilize feedlots, clean up water and protect farmworkers from exploitation. Faux populists in the food industry battle such measures on the grounds they want to keep food prices low for the poor. But the institution of slavery kept crop prices low, too -- at a cost we ultimately decided was too great for a democratic society to pay. (Come to think of it, slavery still exists in parts of the food system, according to reports out of Florida.) Cheap food has become a pillar of our low-wage economy, one reason Americans have managed to stay afloat as their wages have declined since the 1970s. In the end, if we want healthful and conscientiously produced food for everyone, we're simply going to have to pay people enough so that they can afford to buy it.
How in the World Do I Cook Fish?
Less is more: the big trick to cooking fish is to undercook it. The center of a fillet should still be slightly translucent when you take it off the heat. (Remember, it will continue to cook for a few minutes.)
Could You Address the Controversy Regarding Small-Farm, Raw-Milk Cheese Producers?
Raw milk is delicious and nutritious -- and more risky to drink than pasteurized milk. It also makes much more interesting cheeses, because some of the bacteria and enzymes destroyed during pasteurization contribute striking flavors. But producing raw milk safely takes a lot more care, and in recent years there have been several cases of people, especially children, getting sick after consuming raw milk.
There is a strong libertarian streak among many in the food movement, who demand the right to eat whatever they want, without interference from the government. They have a point -- how is it that cigarettes are legal in this country while, in most states, raw milk can't be sold in stores? On the other hand, doesn't the government have a compelling interest in protecting children from a product about which they can't make an informed decision?
You do have to wonder about the Food and Drug Administration's priorities. Why is the government putting its resources into shutting down raw-milk producers, a teeny-tiny ''industry,'' when there are many more serious threats to food safety on factory farms? (In fact the overwhelming majority of illnesses tied to milk and cheese come from pasteurized products.) While Amish dairymen are being raided by the F.D.A., Jack DeCoster, the notorious Iowa egg producer whose filthy, salmonella-infected eggs were linked to an outbreak that sickened more than 1,500 people last year, received a mild warning letter from the F.D.A. What is going on here? Sounds like political theater to me.
How Do Generic Brands in Supermarkets Work? Are They Worse Than Name Brands?
There are generics, and then there are generics. Some generic products may be the exact same as the branded product they resemble -- they're made by the same manufacturer and simply sold under a different, usually more boring, store label. These are a great deal -- you save by not paying for the marketing and advertising behind the big brand. But there are also many more generic products that are reformulated or made with cheaper ingredients. So how can you tell what kind of generic you're getting? Compare the ingredient and nutrition label: if they're identical, then the products are almost certainly identical, too.
When I Purchase Vegetables and Meat Labeled 'Organic,' Why Are They So Much More Expensive Than Similar Items Without the 'Organic' Label?
There are several reasons organic food costs more than conventional food. First, the demand for it exceeds the supply, and presumably, as more farmers transition to organic, the price will fall, though it will never match conventional prices. For one thing, organic farmers receive virtually no subsidies from the government. (European governments significantly subsidize the transition to organic; ours doesn't.) But even on a level playing field, farming organically would probably remain more expensive. Farming without chemicals is inherently more labor-intensive, especially when it comes to weeding. In animal agriculture, raising animals less intensively is always going to cost more.
Think about it this way: The ''high'' price of organic food comes a lot closer to the true price of producing that food -- a price we seldom pay at the checkout. It's important to remember that when you buy conventional food, many costs have been shifted -- to the taxpayer in the form of crop subsidies, to the farmworker in the form of health problems and to the environment in the form of water and air pollution.
O.K., apart from a clearer conscience, what does the premium paid for organic food get you as a consumer? Organic food has little or no pesticide residues, and especially for parents of young children, this is a big deal. There is also a body of evidence that produce grown in organic soils often has higher levels of various nutrients. (But whether these are enough to justify the higher price is questionable.) Probably for the same reason, organic produce often tastes better than conventional (though a cross-country truck ride can obviate this edge).
So it's possible to make a case to the consumer for the superiority of organic food -- but the stronger case is to the citizen. Farming without synthetic pesticides is better for the soil, for the water and for the air -- which is to say, for the commons. It is also better for the people who grow and harvest our food, who would much rather not breathe pesticides. Producing meat without antibiotics will also help stave off antibiotic-resistance. If you care about these things, then the premium paid for organic food is money well spent.
What Healthful Breakfasts Can You Recommend?
Can't go wrong with oatmeal. I like the steel cut that I soak in water overnight. (The soak speeds cooking and makes more nutrients available.) In the summer, I like fresh fruit with yogurt. But my favorite breakfast is two eggs from chickens raised on pasture, served on whole-grain toast.
What Do You Think of Gluten-Free Diets?
They are very important if you have celiac disease or can't tolerate gluten. But it's hard to believe that the number of people suffering from these conditions has grown as fast as this product category. Gluten has become the bad nutrient of the moment, the evil twin of Omega 3 fatty acids. Could it really be that bread, a staple of Western civilization for 6,000 years, is suddenly making millions of us sick? I'm dubious.
Are There Real Opportunities for Consumers to Make an Impact on Factory Farming, Unsustainable Agriculture and Animal Cruelty?
Absolutely. As the market for humanely raised meat grew in recent years, the industry responded. The egg industry recently committed to an effort to phase out tightly confining cages for laying hens; some pork producers are phasing out gestation crates; McDonald's has taken steps to ensure that the meat it buys is slaughtered more humanely; Chipotle now buys only humanely raised pork. There is no question that agribusiness responds to the ''votes'' of consumers on these issues. The food industry is terrified of you. And PETA!
How Would Our Food Landscape Change if the Government No Longer Subsidized Corn? Is There a Better Alternative -- Subsidizing Fruits or Vegetables?
I'm afraid it would change less than you might think. Though crop subsidies certainly helped to make corn (and its boon companion, soy) the mainstay of our food system, eliminating those subsidies might not by itself be enough to topple king corn. Decades of crop breeding, advances in farm machinery and the building of a rural infrastructure all devoted to these crops means a Midwestern farmer can produce a bumper crop of corn with just a couple months of work while at the same time holding down another job. Growing anything else would mean a lot more time and work in the fields, and at this point that farmer probably depends on the other source of income.
As for subsidizing vegetables, that, too, is trickier than it seems. Subsidies tend to result in surpluses, which in the case of grain is fine: you can store surplus corn or soy in a silo for years. Try doing that with broccoli. In the case of ''specialty crops'' -- the U.S.D.A.'s term for crops you can actually eat -- we would be better off subsidizing demand rather than supply: giving vouchers to the poor to buy fresh produce, say, or incentives to retailers to lower prices in the produce section.
I'm of Asian Descent, and I Don't Understand Why Everyone Seems to be Saying that White Rice Is Bad for You, When Asians Have been Eating It for Thousands of Years. Do I Really Have to Give Up Rice to Lose Weight and Prevent Diabetes?
In general you're better off eating brown rice than white, which (unless it has been fortified with vitamins) is pretty much pure starch. But a little white rice isn't going to kill you or give you diabetes. Especially if you eat it with lots of vegetables and some fats, which will compensate for the lack of nutrients and slow your body's absorption of all that glucose. That said, the Harvard School of Public Health estimates (how, I don't know) that changing from white to brown rice will reduce your risk of diabetes by 16 percent.
Yes, it's true that people have been eating white rice for centuries. But the rice has changed, and so have we. Millers today do a much more thorough job of ''polishing'' rice than they once did -- that is, whitening it by removing the nutritious bran and germ from the grain. (The same is true of ''white flour'' as well -- it's a whole lot whiter now than it used to be and therefore less nutritious. Nice going!) As for the eaters of old-timey white rice, chances are they were working in the fields, and so burning those extra carbs that sedentary people store as fat.
If you don't like brown rice, consider ''converted rice.'' This is rice that has been parboiled before it's milled, which forces some of the nutrients -- though not the fiber -- out of the bran and into the kernel. As a result, converted rice is more nutritious than ordinary white rice and its sugars are absorbed more slowly by the body. Uncle Ben was onto something.
Are There Any Foods You Won't Eat?
Feedlot meat. And tomatoes that have been in the refrigerator.Feedlot meat. And tomatoes that have been in the refrigerator.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY CHELSEA CARDINAL) (MM34
MM35
 MM36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); CLONING (78%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



59 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: The Character Test

 BODY:
The formula presented in Paul Tough's article of allowing an insulated child to experience little failures might improve his or her resilience a notch, but I disagree that it will result in grit. If possession of grit can lead to much greater rewards in life, why would we presume that you can attain grit through a low-risk strategy of relatively innocuous negative experiences? Go find a kid who has been exploited or abandoned, and you will find a soul with grit to spare. Provide that kid with resources for his goals, and you'll manufacture a success story. But don't imagine that a caring parent will ever be willing to employ a strategy in advance that allows a child to undergo the searing experiences required for the formation of real grit.
HMMM, Arlington, Va., 7:07 p.m., Sept. 14, nytimes.com 
My mother spent endless hours reviewing spelling words and homework with her five children. But when we failed a test or missed a deadline, she didn't make excuses for us or beg for second chances. We had goofed up, and we ought to be ashamed. As a high-school English teacher for 20 years, I eventually concluded that my most important job was to help students recognize their deficits. Students who read CliffsNotes instead of ''Pride and Prejudice'' thought it was O.K. because their moms purchased the CliffsNotes for them. Even students who were clueless when it came to grammar and spelling thought they should get A's or B's because ''it's the ideas that count.'' Though there are certainly talented and hard-working students out there, it's also true that there are many American students from middle-class homes who have suffered from coddling. And no, teachers and school administrators are not working for the parents, no matter how hefty the tuition fees. It's not the parents who are going to be going on to college, looking for a job in a depressed economy or trying to build a career -- they've already done that; it's the students, and they need teachers who are willing (and brave enough) to let them fail. As adults, we all know that success is empty if there's no possibility of failure, so let's treat our children with the respect they deserve and let them face the world without protective padding. .
ROBERTA GATES, Riverside Ill
Reading Tough's article reminded me of a wonderful book by Calvin Trillin, ''Remembering Denny,'' in which Trillin notes that a large number of Rhodes scholars commit suicide. He reasons that people who have gone through the first 22 years of their lives without making a mistake or failing are ill equipped mentally to deal with their first setbacks.
JOSEPH C. SMALL, Princeton, N.J.
The article reviews the copious psychological literature behind the value of adversity in building success. It isn't as new as it seems. Centuries ago, grit and systematic planning was a major theme of the archetypical American self-made genius, Benjamin Franklin. . . . Psychologists studying underwater space-simulation training of astronauts 30 years ago identified what they called a Teddy Roosevelt effect: those candidates who had been seriously ill as children had somehow developed more determination. And the hygiene hypothesis, the idea that playing in dirt helps children build their immune systems and that excessive cleanliness may lead to allergies and asthma, continues to gain ground.
EDWARD TENNER, 11 a.m., Sept. 16, theatlantic.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL BRYANT) GRAPHICS: A great article on character and how it plays into education, intellect, success and happiness. @stilenius, Sept. 19, Twitter
 ANALYTICS: Top of Their Class 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); TUITION FEES (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); SUICIDE (61%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



60 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Fish I Can Eat Guilt-Free?

BYLINE: By PAUL GREENBERG

 BODY:
Brand any fish ''sustainable,'' and you risk making it so popular that it is fished to the point of depletion. A truly sustainable fish has to be not only abundant but also carefully managed to prevent overfishing. That's partly why the lean, delicious, ruby-fleshed sockeye salmon of Bristol Bay, Alaska, is the fish you can eat with the least amount of guilt. It's one of the largest remaining wild salmon populations left, and it's so strictly tended that more salmon often swim upriver 
-- particularly between June and September -- thanfishermen know what to do with. In the lower 48, river-blocking dams and human pollution have reduced once-comparable salmon runs to less than a tenth of their former size. Harvesting Alaskan salmon is also inherently low-impact: nothing like sea-floor-destroying trawlers (to catch cod)or 40-mile, sea-turtle- ensnaring long lines (to catch swordfish) are used.The most compellingreason to eat Bristol Bay salmon, however, is that buying it may help save it. The fish faces an existential threat in the form of Pebble Mine, a proposed copper-and-gold mine -- potentially the continent's largest -- that would sit at two of the bay's major headwaters and, according to David Chambers, a mining expert, add tons of toxic waste to the ecosystem. Mining promises a more lucrative economic future for the region: the 100- year value of the pebble deposit is estimated to be between $100 billion and $300 billion, compared with as much as $30 billion for a century's worth of Bristol Bay salmon. As magnificent as those silvery 5- to 15-pound salmon appear and taste, the salmon- processing infrastructure is geared more toward tonnage than high-end restaurant portions. Most Bristol Bay sockeye end up in cans or as frozen fillets in supermarkets. They can sell for just pennies on the pound, wholesale. Half of the harvest is exported.
Higher American demand for Bristol Bay salmon could raise its profile and spur opposition to Pebble Mine, but supporting the fish isn't necessarily easy. Local processors don't really have a Bristol Bay brand yet. But because two-thirds to three-fourths of Alaska's sockeye comes from Bristol Bay, choosing that salmon species is one way to consume fish from the right place. And if you buy canned salmon, check the embossing. Cans from Bristol Bay's oldest producer are stamped with the number 35.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DENNIS CARRIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (90%); FISHES (89%); SEAFOOD (79%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); RIVERS (75%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



61 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Is Formal Dining Dead?

BYLINE: By MIMI SHERATON

 BODY:
While most new restaurants are informal,dire reports of the demise of the formal restaurant are premature: witness the continuing success -- in Manhattan alone -- of fairly recent additions like Del Posto, Marea, Ai Fiori, Corton, Bouley, the Mark, Eleven Madison Park and even Junoon with its soigne Indian cuisine. Not to mention the many older, extant outpostsof formality in New York and the rest of the country -- and new additions in Asia and the Middle East, where a rising nouveau-riche clientele values formal splendor. 
Even if the costs of installing, maintaining and staffing a formal restaurant are forbidding, especially in a tanking economy, white tablecloths, coat-checking and highly refined kitchens aren't going anywhere. Dress codes, however, are gone forever, even though a few places still require jackets for men and forbid -- or ''discourage'' -- everyone from wearing sneakers and jeans.(I would give a lot to see how discouraging is expressed at the door.) That loss is for better and for worse: better because there were some absurdly arbitrary interpretationsof the rules, as when Geoffrey Beene was refused entry at two upscale restaurants and was much embarrassed at a third because the fabric of his navy blue blazer was made of jersey knit --not woven -- and therefore dismissed as a sweater. Worse because no dress code is all too often interpreted as a license to wear terminal grunge.
But the trend toward informality may be only temporary. If women, inspired by the Duchess of Cambridge, continue to decide that dressing up is the new cool, they may want suitable settings. Many chefs and restaurateurs who made it big with casual eateries may still long to succeed on the serious, formal scene, thereby becoming eligible for top-star ratings from critics. Finally, many fans of informality may soon catch on to the pricing con in some of the least formal and noisily jampacked outposts: that they're perched uncomfortably on stools with no room for knees or handbags, suffering minimum service. Despite intriguing food, they're stunned by the shocking checks that suddenly add up to more than those in certain modestly priced, full-service restaurants. When that audience starts demanding full value, the formal -- but not stuffy -- restaurant may enjoy a welcome return.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scallop fork, Tiffany & Company, New York, 1885. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR SCHRAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DENNIS CARRIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (89%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (73%); TRENDS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (72%); ASIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



62 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: More Than 700 Arrested as Protesters Try to Cross Brooklyn Bridge

BYLINE: By AL BAKER, COLIN MOYNIHAN and SARAH MASLIN NIR; Natasha Lennard and William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Updated, 1:23 p.m. Sunday In a tense showdown above the East River, the police arrested more than 700 demonstrators from the Occupy Wall Street protests who took to the roadway as they tried to cross the Brooklyn Bridge on Saturday afternoon.
The police said it was the marchers' choice that led to the enforcement action.
''Protesters who used the Brooklyn Bridge walkway were not arrested,'' Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the New York Police Department, said. ''Those who took over the Brooklyn-bound roadway, and impeded vehicle traffic, were arrested.''
But many protesters said they believed the police had tricked them, allowing them onto the bridge, and even escorting them partway across, only to trap them in orange netting after hundreds had entered. 
''The cops watched and did nothing, indeed, seemed to guide us onto the roadway,'' said Jesse A. Myerson, a media coordinator for Occupy Wall Street who marched but was not arrested.
A video on the YouTube page of a group called We Are Change shows some of the arrests.
Around 1 a.m., the first of the protesters held at the Midtown North Precinct on West 54th Street were released. They were met with cheers from about a half-dozen supporters who said they had been waiting as a show of solidarity since 6 p.m. for around 75 people they believed were held there. Every 10 to 15 minutes, they trickled out into a night far chillier than the afternoon on the bridge, each clutching several thin slips of paper -- their summonses, for violations like disorderly conduct and blocking vehicular traffic. The first words many spoke made the group laugh: all variations on ''I need a cigarette.''
David Gutkin, 24, a Ph.D. student in musicology at Columbia University, was among the first released. He said that after being corralled and arrested on the bridge, he was put into plastic handcuffs and moved to what appeared to be a Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus, along with dozens of other protesters, for over four hours. They headed first into Brooklyn and then to several locations in Manhattan before arriving at the 54th Street precinct.
Men and women had been held separately, two or three to a cell. A few said they had been zip-tied the entire time. ''We sang 'This Little Light of Mine,' '' said Annie Day, 34, who when asked her profession said, ''I'm a revolutionary.'' Ms. Day was wearing laceless Converse sneakers: police had required the removal of all laces as well as her belt. She rethreaded them on the pavement while a man who identified himself as a lawyer took each newly freed person's name.
None of the protesters interviewed knew if the bridge march was planned or a spontaneous decision by the crowd. But all insisted that the police had made no mention that the roadway was off limits. Ms. Day and several others said that police officers had walked beside the crowd until the group reached about midway, then without warning began to corral the protesters behind orange nets.
The scene outside the Midtown South Precinct on West 35th Street around 2 a.m. was far more jovial. Only about 15 of the rumored 57 people had been released, but about a dozen waiting supporters danced jigs in the street to keep warm. They snacked on pizza. One even drank Coors Light beer, stashing the empty bottles under a parked police van. When a fresh protester was released, he or she ran through a gantlet formed by the waiting group, like a football player bursting onto the field during the Super Bowl. ''This is so much better than prison!'' one cheered.
''It's cold,'' said Rebecca Solow, 27, rubbing her arms as she waited on the sidewalk, ''but every time one is released, it warms you up.''
The march on the bridge had come to a head shortly after 4 p.m., as the 1,500 or so marchers reached the foot of the Brooklyn-bound car lanes of the bridge, just east of City Hall.
In their march north from Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan - headquarters for the last two weeks of a protest movement against what demonstrators call inequities in the economic system - they had stayed on the sidewalks, forming a long column of humanity penned in by officers on scooters.
Where the entrance to the bridge narrowed their path, some marchers, including organizers, stuck to the generally agreed-upon route and headed up onto the wooden walkway that runs between and about 15 feet above the bridge's traffic lanes.
But about 20 others headed for the Brooklyn-bound roadway, said Christopher T. Dunn of the New York Civil Liberties Union, who accompanied the march. Some of them chanted ''take the bridge.'' They were met by a handful of high-level police supervisors, who blocked the way and announced repeatedly through bullhorns that the marchers were blocking the roadway and that if they continued to do so, they would be subject to arrest.
There were no physical barriers, though, and at one point, the marchers began walking up the roadway with the police commanders in front of them - seeming, from a distance, as if they were leading the way. The Chief of Department Joseph J. Esposito, and a horde of other white-shirted commanders, were among them.
After allowing the protesters to walk about a third of the way to Brooklyn, the police then cut the marchers off and surrounded them with orange nets on both sides, trapping hundreds of people, said Mr. Dunn. As protesters at times chanted ''white shirts, white shirts,'' officers began making arrests, at one point plunging briefly into the crowd to grab a man.
The police said that those arrested were taken to several police stations and were being charged with disorderly conduct, at a minimum. A police spokesman said some protesters -- mostly those without identification -- were still ''going through the system'' late Sunday morning.
A freelance reporter for The New York Times, Natasha Lennard, was among those arrested. She was later released.
Mr. Dunn said only people at the very front could hear the warning, and he was concerned that those in the back ''would have had no idea that it was not O.K. to walk on the roadway of the bridge.'' Mr. Browne said that people who were in the rear of the crowd that may not have heard the warnings were not arrested and were free to leave.
Earlier in the afternoon, as many as 10 Department of Correction buses, big enough to hold 20 prisoners apiece, had been dispatched from Rikers Island in what one law enforcement official said was ''a planned move on the protesters.''
Etan Ben-Ami, 56, a psychotherapist from Brooklyn who was up on the walkway, said that the police seemed to make a conscious decision to allow the protesters to claim the road. ''They weren't pushed back,'' he said. ''It seemed that they moved at the same time.''
Mr. Ben-Ami said he left the walkway and joined the crowd on the road. ''It seemed completely permitted,'' he said. ''There wasn't a single policeman saying 'don't do this'.''
He added: ''We thought they were escorting us because they wanted us to be safe.'' He left the bridge when he saw officers unrolling the nets as they prepared to make arrests. Many others who had been on the roadway were allowed to walk back down to Manhattan.
Mr. Browne said that the police did not trick the protesters into going onto the bridge.
''This was not a trap,'' he said. ''They were warned not to proceed.''
In related protests elsewhere in the country, 25 people were arrested in Boston for trespassing while protesting Bank of America's foreclosure practices, according to Eddy Chrispin, a spokesman for the Boston Police Department. The protesters were on the grounds and blocking the entrance to the building, Mr. Chrispin said.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, speaking briefly before marching in the Pulaski Day Parade in Manhattan on Sunday, also defended the police's actions.
''The police did exactly what they were supposed to do,'' the mayor said, noting that those who march without the city's permission would continue to get summonses. ''It's very easy to get a permit,'' he added.
As the morning wore on, Zuccotti Park had the hallmarks of Sundays the world over. There was brunch: someone had donated bagels and lox. There was the morning paper: protesters who had camped for the night read the self-published newspaper ''The Occupied Wall Street Journal,'' some snuggled the metallic blankets usually worn by marathon runners. One man brushed his teeth without water, standing up.
The scene was largely quiet, save a man in a fedora freestyle rapping with drummers in the east corner of the park. Many of those who had been arrested returned at about 3 a.m. to a heroes reception, said Rick DeVoe, 54, from East Hampton, Mass. They were sleeping in.
''It's not always at a fever pitch,'' Mr. DeVoe said. ''It's not easy sleeping out, it's not easy going to jail.''
Quiet political discussions continued around the sleepers. One woman gave a pep talk to what looked like a new recruit. ''It's about taking down systems, it doesn't matter what you're protesting,'' she said. ''Just protest.''
Some tourists wandered in between the makeshift beds and volunteers sweeping up cigarette butts. A man visiting from Virginia and his 4-year-old son snapped photos, as did an elderly couple passing through.
Natasha Lennard, William K. Rashbaum and Elizabeth A. Harris contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The police said they arrested only protesters who were walking in the bridge's Brooklyn-bound roadway. But many protesters said officers escorted them partway across before the arrests started. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); ARRESTS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); LAWYERS (60%); MUSIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



63 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: More Than 700 Arrested as Protesters Try to Cross Brooklyn Bridge

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and COLIN MOYNIHAN; Natasha Lennard and William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In a tense showdown above the East River, the police arrested more than 700 demonstrators from the Occupy Wall Street protests who took to the roadway as they tried to cross the Brooklyn Bridge on Saturday afternoon.
The police said it was the marchers' choice that led to the enforcement action.
''Protesters who used the Brooklyn Bridge walkway were not arrested,'' Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the New York Police Department, said. ''Those who took over the Brooklyn-bound roadway and impeded vehicle traffic were arrested.'' 
But many protesters said they believed the police had tricked them, allowing them onto the bridge, and even escorting them partway across, only to trap them in orange netting after hundreds had entered.
''The cops watched and did nothing, indeed, seemed to guide us onto the roadway,'' said Jesse A. Myerson, a media coordinator for Occupy Wall Street who marched but was not arrested.
Things came to a head shortly after 4 p.m., as about 1,500 marchers reached the foot of the Brooklyn-bound car lanes of the bridge, just east of City Hall.
In their march north from Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan -- headquarters of the past two weeks of a protest movement against what demonstrators call inequities in the economic system -- they had stayed on the sidewalks, forming a long column of humanity penned in by officers on scooters.
Where the entrance to the bridge narrowed their path, some marchers, including organizers, stuck to the generally agreed-upon route and headed up onto the wooden walkway that runs between and about 15 feet above the bridge's traffic lanes.
But about 20 others headed for the roadway, said Christopher T. Dunn of the New York Civil Liberties Union, who accompanied the march. Some of them chanted, ''Take the bridge!''
They were met by a few police supervisors, who blocked the way and announced repeatedly on bullhorns that if they kept blocking the road, they would be arrested.
There were no physical barriers, though, and at one point, the marchers began walking up the road with police commanders in front of them -- seeming, from a distance, as if they were leading the way. The chief of department, Joseph J. Esposito, and a horde of other white-shirted commanders were among them.
After allowing the protesters to walk about a third of the way to Brooklyn, the police then cut the marchers off and surrounded them with orange nets on both sides, trapping hundreds of people, Mr. Dunn said. Protesters at times chanted, ''White shirts! White shirts!'' And officers began making arrests, at one point plunging briefly into the crowd to grab a man.
The police said the arrested demonstrators were being held at various police stations and that they would be charged , at a minimum, with disorderly conduct. A freelance reporter for The New York Times, Natasha Lennard, was among those arrested. She was later released.Mr. Dunn said only people at the very front could hear the warning, and he was concerned that those in the back ''would have had no idea that it was not O.K. to walk on the roadway.'' Mr. Browne said that people in the rear who might not have heard the warnings were not arrested and were free to leave.
Earlier in the afternoon, as many as 10 Correction Department buses, big enough to hold 20 prisoners apiece, had been dispatched from Rikers Island in what one law enforcement official said was ''a planned move on the protesters.''
Etan Ben-Ami, 56, a psychotherapist from Brooklyn who was on the walkway, said the police seemed to make a conscious decision to allow the protesters to claim the road. ''They weren't pushed back,'' he said. ''It seemed that they moved at the same time.''
Mr. Ben-Ami said he left the walkway and joined the crowd on the road. ''It seemed completely permitted,'' he said. ''There wasn't a single policeman saying, 'Don't do this.' ''
He added, ''We thought they were escorting us because they wanted us to be safe.'' He left the bridge when he saw officers unrolling the nets as they prepared to make arrests. Many others who had been on the roadway were allowed to walk back down to Manhattan.
Mr. Browne said the police did not trick the protesters into going onto the bridge.
''This was not a trap,'' he said. ''They were warned not to proceed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The police said they arrested only protesters who were walking in the bridge's Brooklyn-bound roadway. But many protesters said officers escorted them partway across before the arrests started. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); ARRESTS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); WALKING & JOGGING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



64 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, October 2nd 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the October 2, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending September 17, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList11JACQUELINE KENNEDY: HISTORIC CONVERSATIONS ON LIFE WITH JOHN F. KENNEDY, . (Hyperion, $60.) Recordings and transcripts of a seven-part interview with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. in 1964. 222THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux, $28.) How America fell behind in the world it invented, and how it can come back. 313IN MY TIME, by Dick Cheney with Liz Cheney. (Threshold Editions, $35.) The former vice president opens up about his life and nearly four decades at the core of American politics. 4344UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 5410A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $24.99.) A woman tells of being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 61PEARL JAM TWENTY, by Pearl Jam. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $40.) Two decades of reminiscences, set lists and photographs from the Seattle band and their friends. 7519IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazi Party concentrates on William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 81HERE COMES TROUBLE, by Michael Moore. (Grand Central, $26.99.) Stories from the life of the provocative filmmaker. 9*1THE BLACK BANNERS, by Ali H. Soufan with Daniel Freedman. ( Norton, $26.95.) Rivalry and dysfunction among counterintelligence agencies made it impossible to stop the 9/11 plot, according to this former F.B.I. agent. 10152ARGUABLY, by Christopher Hitchens. (Twelve, $30.) From Hitchens, a collection of essays bearing &#8220;the full consciousness that they might be my very last.&#8221; 11624BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown, $26.99.) A memoir from the creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 121GRAND PURSUIT, by Sylvia Nasar. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $35.) The making of modern economics, told through the lives of economists, by the author of &#8220;A Beautiful Mind.&#8221; 13761493, by Charles C. Mann. (Knopf, $30.50.) Picking up where &#8220;1491&#8221; left off, the author says that ecological encounters since Columbus have affected much of subsequent human history. 14114COCKTAIL HOUR UNDER THE TREE OF FORGETFULNESS, by Alexandra Fuller. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) Fuller&#39;s mother is at the center of this memoir set in Africa. 151LIFE ITSELF, by Roger Ebert. (Grand Central, $27.99.) The film critic&#8216;s memoir.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
17. AFTER AMERICA, by Mark Steyn. (Regnery)
18. DARK WORLD, by Zak Bagans. (Victory Belt)
19. RAFA, by Rafael Nadal and John Carlin. (Hyperion)
20. ONE DAY IT&#39;LL ALL MAKE SENSE, by Common with Adam Bradley. (Atria)
21. WILLPOWER, by Roy F. Baumeister and John Tierney. (Penguin Press)
22. JUST MY TYPE, by Simon Garfield. (Gotham)
23. UNMEASURED STRENGTH, by Lauren Manning. (Holt)
24. HAPPY ACCIDENTS, by Jane Lynch. (Voice)
25. WHAT IT IS LIKE TO GO TO WAR, by Karl Marlantes. (Atlantic Monthly)
26. TOP SECRET AMERICA, by Dana Priest and William M. Arkin. (Little, Brown)
27. THE EIGHTY-DOLLAR CHAMPION, by Elizabeth Letts. (Ballantine)
28. GOD, NO!, by Penn Jillette. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
29. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
30. CLASS WARFARE, by Steven Brill. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
31. SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s)
32. THUNDER DOG, by Michael Hingson with Susy Flory. (Thomas Nelson)
33. LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper/HarperCollins)
34. QUITE ENOUGH OF CALVIN TRILLIN, by Calvin Trillin. (Random House)
35. THE END, by Ian Kershaw. (Penguin Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (63%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); DICK CHENEY (51%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



65 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Of Speculators and the Price of Oil

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Speculators Get a Break in New Rule'' (Fair Game, Sept. 25), Gretchen Morgenson noted how Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, was objecting to a Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule proposal regarding how many financial contracts traders can accumulate for any given commodity. 
Mr. Nelson cited research showing that speculators may now be adding $21 to $27 to the cost of a barrel of oil -- or about 25 percent of the total.
If so, why allow speculators who cannot take delivery of any commodity to buck up the Consumer Price Index and defeat all growth in the rest of the American economy?
Just imagine the uproar that would ensue if anyone seriously proposed a new $20-a-barrel tax on oil. Albert Henderson
Milford, Conn., Sept. 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); FUTURES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

PERSON: BILL NELSON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



66 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Team of Rivals

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
Joe Nocera is an Op-Ed columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
CONFIDENCE MEN
Wall Street, Washington, and the Education of a President
By Ron Suskind
Illustrated. 515 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $29.99.
Bloated, portentous, reeking of self-/importance, Ron Suskind's ''Confidence Men'' is the most frustrating of books. A truly groundbreaking inside account of the first two years of economic policy making in the Obama White House, ''Confidence Men'' is at least 200 pages too long. Suskind tosses off contentious opinions about the economy as if they were accepted wisdom. He intro/duces characters who lack even a marginal connection to his narrative. There's not a blind alley he won't stroll down, at least for a while.
Here's what else ''Confidence Men'' is, though: tough-minded in its assessment of the men (and they were all men) whose advice the president listened to when he first took office; penetrating in its analysis of why the administration's approach to the country's economic ills has been so lackluster; and ruthless in its judgment of Barack Obama himself, who Suskind bluntly says ''wasn't ready'' to be president, so deficient in even the most rudimentary leadership skills that it took him over a year to realize that his White House was in chaos. 
Almost in spite of itself, ''Confidence Men'' is an important addition to the growing library of books about this president. It tells you things -- lots of things -- that you didn't know before. Very few of those things reflect well on Obama and his initial team.
The typical inside-the-White-House account -- by which I mainly mean the books by Bob Woodward, who more or less owns the genre -- has an omniscient quality, the author recreating scenes as if he'd been in the room. (You can usually figure out Woodward's sources because they're the ones who come off best.) ''Confidence Men'' has its share of fly-on-the-wall episodes, but to his everlasting credit, Suskind doesn't really go in for phony omniscience. He savages several people he clearly spent time interviewing, starting with Obama's former chief economic adviser, Larry Summers, and Timothy Geithner, his Treasury secretary. And he's more than willing to step outside his re/created scenes to conduct interviews, in which Obama aides and allies tell truths that are genuinely painful to hear.
''Obama is smart, but smart is not enough,'' says Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, who, in Suskind's account, was used as cover when/ever Obama wanted to appear to be tough on the banks. About the administration's support of the so-called Volcker Rule, which was supposed to prevent the ''too big to fail'' banks from trading for their own accounts, he said, ''They say they're for it, but their hearts are not in it.''
''You can't run a policy based on a mis/direction, on a fiction,'' says Elizabeth Warren, who, as a special adviser to the Treasury secretary, set up the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. ''I don't know what the president is thinking. . . . He meets with bankers. He doesn't meet with me. But if he's involved in this at all, he's got to know that his angry words at Wall Street, at their recklessness and dangerous incentives in compensation, about how they do their business in ways utterly divorced from what's actually good for the economy -- that he can't just say that sort of thing, and then dump money in their laps and be credible.''
''I felt like a piece of meat,'' says Christina Romer, another early economic adviser, describing her treatment at the hands of Summers -- and, by implication, the rest of the White House men's club.
Peter Orszag, the president's first director of the Office of Management and Budget, tells Suskind about a dinner he had with Summers in May 2009, in the midst of several crises, during which Summers said: ''We're home alone. There's no adult in charge. Clinton would never have made these mistakes.'' When Suskind confronts Summers about this statement, he first gives a blustery denial and then tries, unconvincingly, to explain it away. Suskind makes the sad point that Obama, who never lost his high regard for Summers, didn't realize how little regard Summers had for him. (Summers and others in the book have since asserted that their comments were distorted or taken out of context.)
Given Suskind's background as a business journalist -- he spent a chunk of his career at The Wall Street Journal -- it was perhaps inevitable that he would emphasize Obama's lack of management skills. But this serves him well: he makes a persuasive case that Obama's inability to manage his own White House is a critical reason the administration has struggled to devise coherent economic policies. First, Suskind writes, the president brought in too many of the wrong people. Both Summers and Rahm Emanuel, Obama's first chief of staff, were temperamentally unsuited to the jobs they were handed, Suskind says. He also makes it clear that Geithner was the wrong choice to run the Treasury Department, considering his sympathies lay largely with the banks.
Second, he writes, the president was virtually incapable of making a decision. When his aides fought over diametrically opposite policies, he persisted in seeking consensus. Conversations would devolve into lengthy, fruitless debates, which an impatient Obama would end not by choosing one policy over another but by saying, ''O.K., we should work this out'' before the next meeting. Even policies that seemed to have been decided were often ''relitigated'' -- to use Obama's own word -- by those on the losing side: ''Decisions were left unmade; policies drifted without direction. . . . The president seemed to grasp the nature of key policy dilemmas, like a journalist, or narrator, or skilled observer. The problem was in guiding the analysis toward what a president is paid, and elected, to do: make tough decisions.''
And what about those instances in which the president did make a decision a top aide disagreed with? According to Suskind, there were times when the aide simply ignored his directive. The most explosive allegation in ''Confidence Men'' concerns one such instance, early in the Obama presidency, when several top White House advisers, including Summers, wanted to ''wind down'' and restructure Citigroup, the most troubled of the too-big-to-fail banks. Obama liked the idea; it would show, he thought, that the government was willing to tackle the predicament of the banks and their toxic assets head on, and would set the proper tone for the way his administration planned to treat the banks. But Geithner, Suskind writes, strongly opposed the idea, so he just waited for the moment to pass -- and for the president to forget about it. Suskind flatly labels Geithner's action a ''fireable offense.'' (He also reports that in September of last year, when Obama brought in Warren to set up the new consumer bureau, the big banks already knew that she would never be named to run it because Geithner's Treasury Department had assured them it wouldn't happen.)
Surprisingly, the book has an upbeat ending. A close Obama aide named Peter Rouse writes a series of memos about how to fix the White House. The president takes the advice to heart. Most of the original members of Obama's economic team depart, as does Emanuel. (Suskind quotes an anonymous adviser saying that had Emanuel not left to run for mayor of Chicago, ''he would have been fired'' -- which Emanuel of course denies.) Suskind believes the team's replacements, starting with William Daley, who now serves as Obama's chief of staff, are better suited to their positions and will give Obama sounder advice. And he praises the president for extending the Bush tax cuts -- because finally, Obama ''owned'' a decision that affected the economy.
I say ''surprisingly'' because we've since been through the debt ceiling crisis, which took place after ''Confidence Men'' was completed. Once again Obama was cast as a man who sought consensus when there was none to be had, and who lacked the skills to understand how best to play the hand he'd been dealt. This fiasco, however, was followed by his forceful unveiling (at last!) of a jobs package.
The recent evidence that the president has truly changed, then, is mixed. Obama has 13 months to prove Suskind right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Lawrence H. Summers, former director of the National Economic Council
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
 and Peter R. Orszag, former budget director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); PETER ORSZAG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Confidence Men (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



67 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Profits, But No Joy, For Merrill

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
IT sounded like a crank call, the business equivalent of ''Do you have Prince Albert in a can?'': Hello, Warren Buffett wants to talk to your boss.
Only this was no gag. The caller was telling a banker in Chicago that none other than Mr. Buffett wanted to reach the chief executive of Bank of America, ASAP.
The hurried deal that emerged from that early-morning call in late August underscored Bank of America's predicament: It was the too-big-to-fail bank that, to some, also seemed too big to succeed.
Its C.E.O., Brian T. Moynihan, has been struggling to fix things for almost two years. After the financial markets turned on the company this summer, Mr. Buffett invested $5 billion, arresting a precipitous decline in Bank of America's share price. 
But not even the imprimatur of the Oracle of Omaha has been enough to dispel the clouds. Despite the billions from Mr. Buffett, and tens of billions in asset sales, Bank of America can't seem to find its way.
The situation has set teeth on edge at its headquarters in Charlotte, N.C. But perhaps nowhere is the grumbling louder than in Midtown Manhattan, at One Bryant Park, now the base of the Wall Street bank formerly known as just Merrill Lynch.
When Merrill collapsed into the arms of Bank of America in late 2008, the deal remade the face of Wall Street. Merrill, with its ''Thundering Herd'' of rough-and-tumble stockbrokers, was now reporting to more formal Southern bankers in Charlotte. No sooner was the deal done than gaping losses at Merrill threatened to drag down Bank of America. Washington stepped in with the second of two federal bailouts.
Nearly three years later, taxpayers have been repaid, with interest, and what is now Bank of America Merrill Lynch is doing surprisingly well. But the company as a whole is groaning under the weight of many billions of dollars in bad home mortgages, most of them inherited from Countrywide Financial, which it acquired in 2008.
Bank of America's stock, down 54 percent this year, is the biggest loser in the Dow Jones industrial average.
The irony is not lost on bankers, brokers and traders at One Bryant Park. The billions of dollars that Bank of America Merrill Lynch is earning from its businesses on Wall Street are being wiped out by the red ink flowing out of Countrywide. Bonuses are on the line. So are jobs.
''It's debilitating and depressing,'' says one Merrill veteran, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. ''People are very angry. How could we not be?''
Many Americans who don't work in the financial industry -- people who are struggling to make ends meet, or to find jobs, or to keep them -- are more than angry. But this is Wall Street, where money is the measure and where, even in this post-bailout era, top producers expect to be paid, and paid well.
In hindsight, many agree that Mr. Moynihan's predecessor, Kenneth D. Lewis, paid too much for Merrill Lynch: $50 billion in stock. The outcry over the deal and subsequent bailout led to investigations by state and federal regulators. A lawsuit brought by Bank of America shareholders contends that Bank of America tried to keep the losses at Merrill quiet, and seeks $50 billion in damages.
So it might come as a surprise that Bank of America Merrill Lynch is actually thriving. Measured by fees collected for Wall Street work, it is second only to JPMorgan Chase and well ahead of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
The global banking and markets unit of Bank of America, which includes many of the operations it acquired in the Merrill merger, earned $3.7 billion in the first half of 2011. With help from the Thundering Herd, the bank's assets under management have increased to $2.2 trillion from $2 trillion in the last year, despite the turbulence in the financial markets.
AT One Bryant Park, all of this comes as cold comfort.
Many bankers and traders typically receive at least half of their pay in the form of restricted stock. In recent years, Bank of America has made such awards when its share price was trading upwards of $14. With the price now at $6.12, anyone who got shares has essentially suffered a big pay cut since they were handed out, mostly because of the problems associated with Countrywide, the subprime lender whose excesses came to symbolize the housing bubble.
Executives at Bank of America Merrill Lynch concede that they have a big mountain to climb.
Henry Mulholland, the head of equities for the Americas, says: ''It's been a major slog through the mud. The mortgages are overshadowing everything.'' Mr. Mulholland says that inside the company, however, ''there is a broad consensus that we will have our day -- and the stock will be looked at very differently.''
Dan Cummings, head of equity capital markets, adds: ''We don't obsess about it, and we're incredibly well-positioned for the future.''
As executives at Bank of America Merrill Lynch often point out, the share prices of other big banks are down, too. ''We're all in the same boat, and people understand the financial sector is under pressure,'' says Purna R. Saggurti, chairman of global corporate and investment banking.
Still, Bank of America has been beaten up more than its rivals. The share price of Goldman Sachs has fallen 44 percent this year. JPMorgan Chase is off 29 percent.
And despite all the chin-up talk, veterans say the frustration is building.
''Unlike last year, when there were expectations of a rebound, the general thinking is we're likely to be under pressure for a while,'' one longtime banker at Bank of America Merrill Lynch says. Speaking of the mortgage woes, he observes, ''It's come home to people just how big and unrelenting this is.''
If this weren't enough, the Thundering Herd was shook up in September when Sallie Krawcheck, one of the best-known executive women on Wall Street and the head of the company's successful wealth management unit, was forced out in an internal reorganization. Mr. Moynihan and Ms. Krawcheck were never close -- she was hired by Mr. Lewis -- and Mr. Moynihan was frustrated by the pace of integrating the broker force into Bank of America.
Meanwhile, the man who ran most of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Thomas K. Montag, was promoted to co-chief operating officer for the entire company, a new position that will raise his profile at the headquarters in Charlotte, as well as at One Bryant Park.
The rise of Mr. Montag underscores how important what was once Merrill Lynch has become to Bank of America. He joined Merrill shortly before the acquisition, and he is a frequent and popular presence on the trading floors. His boss, Mr. Moynihan, is a less visible figure at One Bryant Park, although he has staunch defenders among the ranks, especially when outsiders complain that he lacks the charisma of, say, Jamie Dimon, the chairman and C.E.O. of JPMorgan Chase.
''I listen to people who criticize him for being unglamorous, and I say, 'Who cares?','' Mr. Mulholland says. ''He's got a difficult job that involves a lot of heavy lifting. He's willing to make difficult decisions.''
FOR one banking executive, it all had a familiar ring: The sleepless night, the meeting in the conference room, the news that you're out.
In his case last month, this senior banker at Bank of America Merrill Lynch was delivering the news, but he'd been on the receiving end in the past.
''It's never fun to sit in a room and tell people they don't have a job,'' he says. ''For the younger generation, it kind of stinks. But for the older generation, no one is surprised. Sometimes you survive, sometimes you don't.''
It's a frequent refrain at One Bryant Park these days, where pink slips are being handed out, just as they are at other Wall Street firms caught in the undertow of a moribund economy and an unruly trading environment. Just last week, Goldman Sachs was preparing to cut more jobs than the 1,000 it had previously announced; Credit Suisse recently laid off administrative assistants at its investment banking unit as part of a larger reduction of 2,000 employees.
But, in sheer number, the cutbacks expected at Bank of America are almost without rival in American banking. The bank, which has a total of 288,000 employees, will eliminate 3,500 jobs in the second half of 2011, and an additional 30,000 or so over the next few years. For Bank of America Merrill Lynch, that has meant hundreds of cuts in the last few weeks, including a number of highly paid investment bankers.
Wall Street is often a hire 'em, fire 'em kind of place, but the latest round of layoffs went deeper than the usual cull of underperformers. Even Bank of America Merrill Lynch's outspokenly bullish equity strategist, David Bianco, found himself out of a job in September.
And more cuts are on the way. An internal initiative called Project New BAC, after Bank of America's ticker symbol, starts in October. Senior executives want to reduce layers of bureaucracy and eliminate the red tape that many managers say is one of the less appealing results of Bank of America's merger spree.
The executives who led the project have already combed through Bank of America's consumer banking operations and other units to come up with the 30,000 jobs to cut over the next three years. While huge layoffs aren't envisioned for Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- it employs about 19,000, versus nearly 100,000 for the consumer banking operations -- some jobs are expected to disappear.
DESPITE the pain, some senior bankers are saying privately that they're hoping the division can become a bit nimbler as a result of Project New BAC.
''There is just a feeling that you can't make a move on things that make a great deal of sense,'' one executive says. ''There's just this enormous black hole.''
Sometimes, he says, the bureaucracy is suffocating. ''I like being out on the road with clients,'' this executive adds. ''It's only when I'm sitting in this office am I reminded of what a big, burdensome place this can be.''
Mr. Montag isn't one for moaning and groaning. ''At many firms, not just here, there's a woe-is-us attitude,'' he says. ''The market is after us, the economy is after us. You name something and people will say it's after us.''
He says morale is much better than it was two years ago. His advice for the complainers? ''Show no fear. People respond to that.''
With that attitude, he says, ''people will walk through the fire with you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brian Moynihan, Bank of America's chief. The bank is still reeling under mortgage-related woes despite recent success at its Merrill Lynch unit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY CAMARATI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU1)
Kenneth D. Lewis, above right, sealed Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch in 2008 with John Thain, then Merrill's chief. In August this year, Sallie Krawcheck, at far left, head of the wealth management unit, was forced out in an internal reorganization. The promotion of Thomas K. Montag, near left, to co-chief operating officer of Bank of America has underscored Merrill's importance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (71%); JOHN THAIN (56%); KENNETH D LEWIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



68 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Yemen Strike Reflects U.S. Shift To Drones as Cheaper War Tool

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and THOM SHANKER; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The C.I.A. drone strike that killed Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born propagandist for Al Qaeda's rising franchise in Yemen, was one more demonstration of what American officials describe as a cheap, safe and precise tool to eliminate enemies. It was also a sign that the decade-old American campaign against terrorism has reached a turning point.
Disillusioned by huge costs and uncertain outcomes in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Obama administration has decisively embraced the drone, along with small-scale lightning raids like the one that killed Osama bin Laden in May, as the future of the fight against terrorist networks.
''The lessons of the big wars are obvious,'' said Micah Zenko, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, who has studied the trade-offs. ''The cost in blood and treasure is immense, and the outcome is unforeseeable. Public support at home is declining toward rock bottom. And the people you've come to liberate come to resent your presence.'' 
The shift is also a result of shrinking budgets, which will no longer accommodate the deployment of large forces overseas at a rough annual cost of $1 million per soldier. And there have been improvements in the technical capabilities of remotely piloted aircraft. One of them tracked Mr. Awlaki with live video on Yemeni tribal turf, where it is too dangerous for American troops to go.
Even military officials who advocate for the drone campaign acknowledge that these technologies are not applicable to every security threat.
Still, the move to drones and precise strikes is a remarkable change in favored strategy, underscored by the leadership changes at the Pentagon and C.I.A. Just a few years ago, counterinsurgency was the rage, as Gen. David H. Petraeus used the strategy to turn around what appeared to be a hopeless situation in Iraq. He then applied those lessons in Afghanistan.
The outcome -- as measured in political stability, rule of law and economic development -- remains uncertain in both.
Now, Mr. Petraeus (he has chosen to go by his civilian title of director, rather than general) is in charge of the C.I.A., which pioneered the drone campaign in Pakistan. He no longer commands the troops whose numbers were the core of counterinsurgency.
And the defense secretary is Leon E. Panetta, who oversaw the escalation of drone strikes in Pakistan's lawless tribal area as the C.I.A. director. Mr. Panetta, the budget director under President Bill Clinton, must find a way to safeguard security as the Pentagon purse strings draw tight.
Today, there is little political appetite for the risk, cost and especially the long timelines required by counterinsurgency doctrine, which involves building societies and governments to gradually take over the battle against insurgents and terrorists within their borders.
The apparent simplicity of a drone aloft, with its pilot operating from the United States, can be misleading. Behind each aircraft is a team of 150 or more personnel, repairing and maintaining the plane and the heap of ground technology that keeps it in the air, poring over the hours of videos and radio signals it collects, and gathering the voluminous intelligence necessary to prompt a single strike.
Air Force officials calculate that it costs $5 billion to operate the service's global airborne surveillance network, and that sum is growing. The Pentagon has asked for another $5 billion next year alone for remotely piloted drone systems.
Yet even those costs are tiny compared with the price of the big wars. A Brown University study, published in June, estimates that the United States will have spent $3.7 trillion in Afghanistan and Iraq by the time the wars are over.
The drones may alienate fewer people. They have angered many Pakistanis, who resent the violation of their country's sovereignty and the inevitable civilian casualties when missiles go awry or are directed by imperfect intelligence. But while experts argue over the extent of the deaths of innocents when missiles fall on suspected terrorist compounds, there is broad agreement that the drones cause far fewer unintended deaths and produce far fewer refugees than either ground combat or traditional airstrikes.
Still, there are questions of legality. The Obama administration legal team wrestled with whether it would be lawful to make Mr. Awlaki a target for death -- a proposition that raised complex issues involving Mr. Awlaki's constitutional rights as an American citizen, domestic statutes and international law.
The Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel eventually issued a lengthy, classified memorandum that apparently concluded it would be legal to strike at someone like Mr. Awlaki in circumstances in which he was believed to be plotting attacks against the United States, and if there was no way to arrest him. The existence of that memorandum was first reported Saturday by The Washington Post.
The role of drones in the changing American way of war also illustrates the increasing militarization of the intelligence community, as Air Force drone technologies for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance -- and now armed with Hellfire missiles for strikes on ground targets -- play a central role in C.I.A. operations. The blurring of military-intelligence boundaries includes former uniformed officers assuming top jobs in the intelligence apparatus and military commando units carrying out raids under C.I.A. command.
As useful as the drones have proved for counterterrorism, their value in other kinds of conflicts may be more limited. Against some of the most significant potential threats -- a China in ascendancy, for example, or a North Korea or Iran with nuclear weapons -- drones are likely to be of marginal value. Should military force be required as a deterrent or for an attack, traditional forces, including warships and combat aircraft, would carry the heaviest load.
Of course, new kinds of air power have often appeared seductive, offering a cleaner, higher-tech brand of war. Military officials say they are aware that drones are no panacea.
''It's one of many capabilities that we have at our disposal to go after terrorists and others,'' one senior Pentagon official said. ''But this is a tool that is not a weapon for weapon's sake. It's tied to policy. In many cases, these weapons are deployed in areas where it's very tough to go after the enemy by conventional means, because these terror leaders are located in some of the most remote places.''
In some ways, the debate over drones versus troops recalls the early months of George W. Bush's administration, when the new president and his defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, envisioned how a revolution in military technology would allow the Defense Department to reduce its ground forces and focus money instead on intelligence platforms and long-range, precision-strike weapons.
Then came the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the wars, first in Afghanistan and then in Iraq, in which ground forces carried out the lion's share of the missions.
Mr. Zenko, of the Council on Foreign Relations, worries about the growing perception that drones are the answer to terrorism, just a few years after many officials believed that invading and remaking countries would prove the cure. The recent string of successful strikes has prompted senior Obama administration officials to suggest that the demise of Al Qaeda may be within sight. But the history of terrorist movements shows that they are almost never ended by military force, he said.
''What gets lost are all the other instruments of national power,'' including diplomacy, trade policy and development aid, Mr. Zenko said. ''But these days those tools never get adequate consideration, because drones get all the attention.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American officials say remotely piloted drone aircraft are a cheap, safe and precise alternative to traditional warfare. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GRIFFIN, VIA REUTERS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); BUDGETS (87%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); DAVID PETRAEUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



69 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Death of a President

BYLINE: By KEVIN BAKER. 
Kevin Baker is writing a social history of New York City baseball.

 BODY:
DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC
A Tale of Madness, Medicine,and the Murder of a President
By Candice Millard
Illustrated. 339 pp. Doubleday. $28.95.
''Charlie said, 'Hell, If I am guilty, Then God is as well.' But God was acquitted And Charlie committed Until he should hang.''
-- Stephen Sondheim ''The Ballad of Guiteau,'' from ''Assassins''
If an obscure 19th-century president falls, does he make a noise? 
A cruel thing to ask, but historically the assassination of James A. Garfield made little difference. The death of Abraham Lincoln, 16 years earlier, was seen as a Christlike sacrifice -- and left generations of historians guessing what his continued presence might have meant for Reconstruction. The later shootings of William McKinley and John F. Kennedy allowed the ascent of two of our most dynamic presidents, Theodore Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson, both of whom pushed through long overdue social and economic reforms.
The death of President Garfield led to . . . the presidency of Chester Alan Arthur, of whom the best anyone could say was that he was more honest than expected.
Garfield was one of the ''Ohio Seven,'' that spate of singularly undistinguished presidents from the Buckeye State who served between 1869 and 1923. At their best, they presided over some years of prosperity; at their worst, they gave us two of the most corrupt administrations in our history.
Yet it is one of the many pleasures of Candice Millard's new book, ''Destiny of the Republic,'' that she brings poor Garfield to life -- and a remarkable life it was. He was the last president to be born in a log cabin. His father died when James was just 1, succumbing to ''exhaustion and fever'' after fighting a wildfire that had threatened his home. The boy's mother struggled desperately to make a living for James and his three siblings but donated some of her farmland so their community would have a schoolhouse. James was taught to consider himself the equal of any man -- to walk ''with his shoulders squared and his head thrown back,'' a trait he would always possess.
A near drowning while he labored on the Erie and Ohio Canal convinced him that God ''had saved me for my mother and for something greater and better than canalling,'' he wrote. For the next few years, he worked his way up through local schools and Williams College; at the Western Reserve Eclectic Institute (now Hiram College), a preparatory school, he mastered his studies so thoroughly that he was promoted from janitor to assistant professor. Returning there to teach, he became the school's president at 26. In his spare time, he passed the Ohio bar.
Excelling both in combat and as a top staff officer, he rose to the rank of major general during the Civil War but was sickened by the carnage of battle. ''Garfield would later tell a friend,'' Millard writes, ''that 'something went out of him . . . that never came back; the sense of the sacredness of life and the impossibility of destroying it.' ''
Elected to Congress in 1862, Garfield fought for black rights and liberty, writing in his pocket diary, ''Servitium esto damnatum''-- ''slavery be damned.'' Modest to a fault, he toiled diligently in the legislative vineyards for 17 years. Even his foibles were endearing: he loved to hear himself talk (speaking ''on the floor of Congress more than 40 times in a single day''), something he admitted was a ''fatal facility.''
To everyone's amazement, he won the Republican nomination in 1880, in a deadlocked convention. With a plurality of just 10,000 votes, he became the last member of the House to go directly to the White House.
Personally, Garfield said he preferred the ''quiet country beauty'' of Mentor, Ohio, where he worked the fields and raised five children with his wife, Lucretia. After a difficult courtship and early marriage, complicated by the death of the couple's first child, he began an affair with Lucia Gilbert Calhoun, a reporter for The New York Tribune; but by the time of his election he was inseparable from his wife, the ''life of my life.'' Their exuberant extended family included his mother, who wrote a friend from the White House, ''I feel very thankful for such a son.''
On the morning of July 2, 1881, the president of the United States burst into the room of his teenage sons and picked one up under each arm, swinging them about as he sang a Gilbert and Sullivan tune. He did a flip, ''then hopped across the room balanced only on his fingers and toes.'' Garfield had reason to be happy. He had just finished outmaneuvering a major Republican rival and was about to travel with his boys to the Jersey Shore, where Lucretia was recovering from a bout of malaria.
A few hours later he lay on the floor of the Baltimore and Potomac train station, shot in the back by a deranged individual named Charles J. Guiteau, who imagined he was responsible for Garfield's election and deserved to be made consul general to France.
Like so many American assassins, Guiteau was a shadow of the man he shot -- one of that chilling breed for whom, as Stephen Sondheim so brilliantly wrote in ''Assassins,'' ''There's another national anthem playing, / Not the one you cheer / At the ballpark.'' Raised by a father ''so certain of his relationship with God that he believed he would never die,'' Guiteau, suffering perhaps from syphilis, led a peripatetic existence, failing as a lawyer and an evangelist, unable to find love even at a free love colony, where the women nicknamed him ''Charles Gitout.'' Unable to do, he would not stop believing himself a great man, awarding himself august, delusional titles like ''Premier of the British Lion.''
His behavior became so strange that his wife and siblings feared for their lives and his, and his sister tried to find him help. In a depressingly familiar story, this proved hard to come by -- but for Guiteau to pick up a cheap gun was easy. Denied a position befitting his illusions, he decided God wanted him to kill the president and stalked Garfield for weeks before the shooting.
Had Garfield been left where he lay, he might well have survived; the bullet failed to hit his spine or penetrate any vital organs. Instead, he was given over to the care of doctors, who basically tortured him to death over the next 11 weeks. Two of them repeatedly probed his wound with their unsterilized fingers and instruments before having him carted back to the White House on a hay-and-horsehair mattress.
There, control of the president was seized by a quack with the incredible name of Dr. Doctor Willard Bliss. Dr. Doctor Bliss insisted on stuffing Garfield with heavy meals and alcohol, which brought on protracted waves of vomiting. He and his assistants went on probing the wound several times a day, causing infections that burrowed enormous tunnels of pus throughout the president's body.
Garfield's medical ''care'' is one of the most fascinating, if appalling, parts of Millard's narrative. Joseph Lister had been demonstrating for years how his theories on the prevention of infection could save lives and limbs, but American doctors largely ignored his advice, not wanting to ''go to all the trouble'' of washing hands and instruments, Millard writes, enamored of the macho trappings of their profession, the pus and blood and what they referred to fondly as the ''good old surgical stink'' of the operating room.
Further undermining the president's recovery was his sickroom in the White House -- then a rotting, vermin-ridden structure with broken sewage pipes. Outside, Washington was a pestilential stink hole; besides the first lady, four White House servants and Guiteau himself had contracted malaria. Hoping to save Garfield from the same, Bliss fed him large doses of quinine, causing more intestinal cramping.
The people rallied around their president even as his doctors failed him. The great Western explorer and geologist John Wesley Powell helped design Ameri/ca's first air-conditioning system to relieve Garfield's agony. Alexander Graham Bell worked tirelessly to invent a device that could locate the bullet. (It failed when Dr. Bliss insisted he search only the wrong side of Garfield's torso.) Two thousand people worked overnight to lay 3,200 feet of railroad track, so the president might be taken to a cottage on the Jersey Shore. When the engine couldn't make the grade, hundreds of men stepped forward to push his train up the final hill.
The president endured everything with amazing fortitude and patience, even remarking near the end, when he learned a fund was being taken up for his family: ''How kind and thoughtful! What a generous people!''
''General Garfield died from malpractice,'' Guiteau claimed, defending himself at his spectacle of a trial. This was true, but not enough to save Guiteau from the gallows.
Millard, whose previous book, ''The River of Doubt,'' was about Theodore Roosevelt's near-fatal journey of exploration in South America, is outstanding on this still darker story. She makes, at times, the common biographer's mistake of inflating her subject's importance and virtues. Contrary to what she implies, neither Garfield's administration nor his death brought about advances in civil rights, nor a grand reconciliation with the South, then busy creating the Jim Crow state. The Garfield aphorisms with which she begins most chapters are often no better than greeting card sentiments. (''If wrinkles must be written upon our brows, let them not be written upon the heart. The spirit should not grow old.'')
Yet such enthusiasms are understandable concerning such a generally admirable man. Though Garfield's death had little historical significance, Millard has written us a penetrating human tragedy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: For 11 weeks Garfield endured unsterilized probings, large doses of quinine and a vermin-infested sickroom. (DRAWING FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HEALTH AND MEDICINE, ARMED FORCES INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMED FORCES INSTITUTE OF PATHOLOGY (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Destiny of the Republic (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



70 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2385 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Taxes, Romney Went After Business

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Much of the business community in Massachusetts was puzzled. Mitt Romney, a Republican with high-caliber corporate credentials, had run for governor pledging to sweep aside barriers to business and act as the state's ''top salesman.''
But just a few months after Mr. Romney took office in 2003, what he delivered seemed anything but friendly to the C.E.O. crowd: a bill to financial firms for what they saw as $110 million in new corporate taxes -- and a promise of more to come.
''How could he do this to businesses as a business guy?'' Joe Casey, then a top executive at a Massachusetts bank, Seacoast Financial, recalled asking colleagues whose companies had to pay up after the Romney administration closed a tax loophole. ''It was very aggressive, and it was a surprise.''
For the next three years, the Romney administration relentlessly scoured the tax code for more loopholes, extracting hundreds of millions of corporate dollars to help close budget gaps in a state with a struggling economy. It was only after Mr. Romney was gearing up in 2005 for a possible White House bid that he backed away from some of his most assertive tax enforcement proposals amid intensifying complaints from local companies and conservative antitax groups in Washington. 
Mr. Romney's campaign against the tax loopholes, like no other period in his career, put him at odds with the values and expectations of the corporate world from which he came. Today, in seeking the Republican presidential nomination, Mr. Romney promotes himself as the pro-business candidate who understands what companies need and how to create jobs.
An examination of the period reveals a more complicated picture. It shows a governor who sometimes put the need to find new revenues ahead of the conservative argument that tax increases almost by definition kill jobs; a shrewd financial manager who aides said was guided by a strong sense of rectitude, not just pragmatism; and a political aspirant willing to buck the orthodoxies of his own party -- at least, state lawmakers said, until his national ambitions tempered that impulse and led him to steer a more conservative course.
Today Mr. Romney rarely, if ever, discusses on the campaign trail how he closed the Massachusetts tax loopholes. There is no proud description of them in his two books, even though many lawmakers in the state consider them a rare show of political courage.
''I was surprised that he did what I thought was the right thing to do,'' said Michael W. Morrissey, a Democratic state senator during the Romney years and now a district attorney in the state.
Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney and a former aide in his administration, defended his record, saying he had been on good terms with a business community that benefited from a variety of his economic development policies. ''Did they see eye to eye on everything?'' Mr. Fehrnstrom said. ''Not always. But more than anything they appreciated the strong leadership Mitt Romney brought to the governor's office in getting the budget under control and bringing the state economy out of its tailspin.''
When he proposed the tax changes, Mr. Romney argued that they amounted to vigilant and fair enforcement of existing rules. Massachusetts business leaders said he was simply raising their taxes -- a view that could complicate Mr. Romney's bid for the presidency.
Aides said his retreat on the issue displayed a responsiveness to constituents and the give-and-take of political negotiations, but some lawmakers in the State House said it fit a familiar pattern. ''He was positioning himself for a long-range future plan,'' said Representative Kay Khan, a Democrat. ''Every move was quite calculated.''
Closing Tax Loopholes
In his 2002 campaign for governor, Mr. Romney ran as a turnaround artist. After a career as a venture capitalist asking companies for money, he liked to tell audiences, he was eager to ask for something else: jobs in Massachusetts.
''I'm looking forward to being the state's most active salesman, out there banging on doors,'' he said in one of his first appearances after announcing his candidacy. ''Come to Massachusetts, look what we have for you.''
His campaign swelled with donations from employees of the state's biggest corporations: Fidelity Investments, Staples, Liberty Mutual.
Mr. Romney said he was determined to reduce taxes in a state long derided for its high costs: in the corridors of finance, ''Taxachusetts'' had become a casual epithet.
But his campaign promise never to raise taxes left him with few options once in office: the state's budget deficit had reached $3 billion, a gap that could not be eliminated by cutting spending and reducing the state work force.
Inside the Romney administration, Alan LeBovidge, a recently retired corporate tax adviser at PricewaterhouseCoopers and the state's commissioner of revenue, stumbled on a potential trove of cash. He found that dozens of Massachusetts banks had reduced their taxes by transferring billions of dollars in assets, like mortgages, into real estate investment trusts. The trusts, by design, were subject to virtually no taxes. Mr. LeBovidge wanted to ban the practice and force the banks to pay outstanding taxes on the assets.
Would the new governor sign on? Mr. Romney, after all, had spent decades trying to wring profits out of companies as a founder of Bain Capital, a Boston private equity firm, and had deep ties to the state's banking industry.
During a lengthy discussion in Mr. Romney's office in early 2003, Mr. LeBovidge made his case. ''This is costing us a ton of money, Governor,'' he recalled telling Mr. Romney.
The governor seemed just as offended as Mr. LeBovidge. ''It's not right,'' Mr. Romney said, according to the tax chief. It was a refrain Mr. Romney would repeat to aides and anybody else who asked. Banks are not real estate companies, they are banks, he would say.
Mr. Romney instructed Mr. LeBovidge to pursue the matter. ''Go do it,'' Mr. LeBovidge recalled the governor saying.
The governor's support extended well beyond signing a law that outlawed the tax arrangement. With Mr. Romney's encouragement, Mr. LeBovidge pursued several years' worth of outstanding payments from the banks, reaching a major settlement that netted the state $110 million in 2003.
Mr. LeBovidge expanded the Revenue Department's auditing budget, hired new staff members and combed the tax code for more loopholes.
''He wanted us to go after the big game,'' Mr. LeBovidge recalled. ''He was very supportive.''
The Revenue Department found dozens of similar practices, and the Romney administration set about closing the loopholes one by one. It proposed bills that would collect $120 million in new corporate taxes for 2003, $90 million in 2004 and $170 million in 2005, records show.
Gone was a regulatory quirk that had let companies avoid taxes on software downloaded from the Internet but required taxes on software installed with a disk. So, too, was a company's ability to skirt taxes by transferring valuable trademarks to out-of-state subsidiaries.
A Divided Response
The Democratic-controlled Legislature, which had assumed that Mr. Romney was cozy with the state's corporate executives, was both taken aback and thrilled by the onslaught.
A C.E.O. governor advocating bigger taxes for businesses?
''It provided us with a lot of air cover; here was a champion of the business community suggesting that we had to do this,'' said Robert E. Travaglini, the former Democratic president of the Massachusetts Senate.
To many chief executives and business groups, it showed something else: a curious insensitivity to the needs of corporations and a willingness to squeeze as much money as possible out of a politically convenient target.
Even allies of the governor expressed some reservations, worrying that a raft of new tax regulations could unsettle companies considering moving to the state.
''Changing the rules and being more aggressive with loopholes sent a message to larger companies,'' said Michael P. Hogan, the former chief executive of MassDevelopment, a state-financed group that worked closely with the Romney administration to market the state to companies. ''It was a little bit of a step back.''
By the end of Mr. Romney's term, the loophole measures required companies to pay about $370 million a year in additional taxes, a nearly 20 percent increase from the period before he took office, according to an analysis of government data by the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonprofit research group that receives financing from corporations.
The impact of closing the loopholes, which produced a relatively small fraction of state revenues, is an open question. ''It cost us jobs,'' said David G. Tuerck, an economist at Suffolk University in Boston, though others say that is difficult to measure and subject to debate. During Mr. Romney's tenure, Massachusetts ranked near the bottom -- 47th out of 50 states -- in new job creation.
Several experts on the state's economy said that by increasing tax enforcement, Mr. Romney staved off wider cuts to essential services.
''When you do the cold, hard calculations, the benefits of reducing corporate tax avoidance clearly outweigh the costs,'' said Noah Berger, president of the Massachusetts Budget and Policy Center, a nonpartisan research organization.
Mr. Fehrnstrom, the Romney spokesman, said the former governor ''believes government has a responsibility to enforce the tax laws and make sure that as companies pursue creative and aggressive accounting techniques that there is an effort to push back.''
Business Pushes Back
In interviews, several business leaders described a sometimes strained relationship with Mr. Romney that began, but did not end, with the tax measures.
His administration drew up legislation, starting in 2003, that sought to raise dozens of government fees affecting businesses: for outdoor advertising, elevator repairs, delivery of petroleum products, even the cost of a road test for a commercial driver's license (to $40 from $20).
When residential property tax assessments shot up in 2003, the governor signed a bill encouraging towns to offset the higher costs by lowering tax rates for homeowners but raising them for commercial properties.
And when Congress passed a jobs bill in 2004 that forced states like Massachusetts to lower their corporate tax rates, the Romney administration sought to exempt itself from the change to save about $30 million.
''And what would be the point of having a Republican PRO-business governor, again?'' asked a Boston Herald editorial opposing the move at the time.
Mr. LeBovidge said that the state simply needed the money. ''We didn't want to lose the revenue,'' he said.
Some business leaders are quick to point out the ways Mr. Romney improved the climate for companies. He created tax credits for new manufacturing jobs, a faster-paced permitting system for businesses and a marketing program intended to lure companies to Massachusetts.
He personally courted big companies like Bristol-Myers Squibb, putting together a package of tax incentives that persuaded the giant pharmaceutical company to open a manufacturing plant in Massachusetts rather than a rival state.
''The governor would build a personal relationship with these C.E.O.'s,'' said Ranch C. Kimball, Mr. Romney's top economic adviser as governor.
However, by 2005, when Mr. Romney proposed his third round of corporate tax loophole closings, ''frustrations had reached a boil,'' said Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation.
By far Mr. Romney's most far-reaching measure, the proposal sought to give Mr. LeBovidge authority to pursue corporate tax evasion, even through out-of-state entities. Mr. LeBovidge argued that his staff needed to keep up with the increasingly exotic tax shelters being marketed by top accounting firms.
The state's business lobby saw it as flagrant overreaching by government. The Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation warned that it would give the Romney administration ''unprecedented authority -- broader than that available to the I.R.S. or any other state revenue commissioner.''
Some of the most forceful denunciations came from conservatives in Washington. In a 2005 newsletter, the Council on State Taxation, which represents businesses, mocked ''the allegedly pro-business'' Mr. Romney for trying to ''firmly reclaim for the commonwealth the dubious title of Taxachusetts.''
Grover Norquist, who has successfully pushed dozens of Republican lawmakers to sign no-tax pledges as the president of Americans for Tax Reform, assailed the plan as a threat to free society. He likened it to ''crossing state lines to mug someone.''
Mr. Norquist's voice was especially potent. By the end of Mr. Romney's governorship, the two men had spoken twice about Mr. Romney's future in national politics, making clear, Mr. Norquist said, that he was a likely Republican candidate for president.
Mr. Romney, who had previously seemed so immune to the pressure from the business lobby, suddenly reversed course. He yanked the proposal to empower his tax commissioner further, despite support from leading Democrats in the Legislature, and scaled back by half his 2005 plan to raise $170 million in new loophole closings.
''There was a lot of pressure on the administration not to do it,'' Mr. LeBovidge said with a hint of regret. Mr. Romney, he said, ''felt it was not a battle worth fighting.''
By 2006, Mr. Romney was traveling the country, all but openly campaigning for the White House as a fiscal conservative. Much to Mr. Norquist's delight, Mr. Romney became the first Republican presidential candidate to sign his no-new-taxes pledge, in 2007 -- something he had declined to do five years earlier when he ran for governor.
Mr. Norquist acknowledged that he had been deeply disappointed by Mr. Romney's corporate tax overhaul. Unlike the governor, Mr. Norquist regards the changes as tax hikes.
''They changed the laws and the rules to significantly raise taxes,'' he said. ''That is a tax increase.''
But he is willing to look past it now. ''The important thing,'' Mr. Norquist said, ''is that his stated position is that it won't happen again.''
This article is part of a series about the lives and careers of the Republican and Democratic candidates for president in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan LeBovidge, Mitt Romney's revenue commissioner, said the governor ''wanted us to go after the big game'' to find income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN McGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Mitt Romney in 2005. By the next year, he was in campaign mode and had scaled back a plan to close tax loopholes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLOBE PHOTO BY ZARA TZANEV) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



71 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Of Speculators and the Price of Oil

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Speculators Get a Break in New Rule'' (Fair Game, Sept. 25), Gretchen Morgenson noted how Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, was objecting to a Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule proposal regarding how many financial contracts traders can accumulate for any given commodity. 
Mr. Nelson cited research showing that speculators may now be adding $21 to $27 to the cost of a barrel of oil -- or about 25 percent of the total.
If so, why allow speculators who cannot take delivery of any commodity to buck up the Consumer Price Index and defeat all growth in the rest of the American economy?
Just imagine the uproar that would ensue if anyone seriously proposed a new $20-a-barrel tax on oil. Albert Henderson
Milford, Conn., Sept. 25
A Progressive Flat Tax
To the Editor:
In ''Darwin, the Market Whiz'' (Economic View, Sept. 18), Robert H. Frank says adoption of a flat tax ''is unlikely because it would fall disproportionately on people with lower incomes.''
That problem is easily solved by exempting from taxation, say, the first $25,000 of income. Someone making $25,000 would owe no taxes. Assuming a 20 percent tax rate, someone earning $50,000 would owe $5,000 in taxes (20 percent of $50,000 less the $25,000 exemption), an effective rate of 10 percent.
The tax on $100,000 of income would be $15,000 (20 percent of $75,000), an effective rate of 15 percent. On $1 million in earnings it would be $195,000 (20 percent of $975,000), an effective rate of 19.5 percent.
Such a ''progressive flat tax'' could satisfy conservatives with its flat rate, and liberals with its progressive effective rate.
Steve Nelson
Washington, Mass., Sept. 19
2 Pictures, 2 Messages
To the Editor:
In the Sunday Business section of Sept. 25, one article profiled Christine Lagarde, the new managing director of the International Monetary Fund (''Mme. Lagarde Goes to Washington''), and another featured David Barger, chief executive of JetBlue Airways (''Early Access as a Fast Track to Learning'').
Under Mr. Barger's picture, the caption described a business lesson he has learned. Under Ms. Lagarde's photograph, the comments were about her wardrobe.
And you believe that you are not tilting against women?
Jacqueline Heneage
Bridgeport, Conn., Sept. 25
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FUTURES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); CONSERVATISM (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (61%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (63%)

PERSON: BILL NELSON (89%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (64%); DAVID BARGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



72 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: The Problem With 'No New Taxes'

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
IN a debate in August, Republican presidential candidates were asked whether they would support a budget deal that bundled $10 of spending cuts for every $1 of tax increases. All said no. They rejected any deal that involved raising taxes.
Curiously, though, if this approach actually were to become government policy, it would have a surprising effect: it would surely lead to higher rather than lower taxes. 
Consider the example more closely. Cutting $10 in spending for every $1 in tax increases would result in $9 in net tax reduction. That's because lower spending today means lower taxes tomorrow, and limiting the future path of government spending does limit future taxes, as Milton Friedman, the late Nobel laureate and conservative icon, so clearly explained. Promising never to raise taxes, without reaching a deal on spending, really means a high and rising commitment to future taxes.
Furthermore, this refusal to contemplate a tax increase -- which I'd characterize as an extreme Republican stance -- has brought what seems to be an extreme Democratic response: President Obama's latest budget plan is moving away from entitlement reform and embracing multiple tax increases on the wealthy. We may be left with no good fiscal options.
The problems with a no-new-taxes stance run deeper. Because it's unlikely that spending cuts alone can balance the budget, politicians who espouse extreme antitax views often end up denying the scope of our long-run fiscal problems.
The reality is that a mix of our aging population and rising health care costs will create acute budgetary pressures in about 10 years. If Medicare costs rise, say, 5 percent a year, such costs will roughly double in 14 years. Imagine that Congress freezes spending generally. Doing that for Medicare would, in essence, cut the size of the program in half over that period. Since the number of older Americans is rising, the per capita Medicare benefit would fall even more, with increasingly drastic results as the years pass.
That's politically unlikely, and insisting upon it, or refusing to acknowledge that this is what a spending freeze means, ends up as another way of running away from fiscal reform. Focusing on cutting discretionary spending, a common political tactic, isn't enough to balance the books.
Another conservative economist and Nobel laureate, James M. Buchanan, emeritus professor of economics at George Mason University, argues that deficit spending leads to yet more spending, and higher future taxes, compared with a pay-as-you-go approach. A move toward balancing the budget may mean some tax increases up front, he says, but future taxes as well as government spending will be lower than they would be otherwise.
In other words, the current antitax strategies advocated by the Republican candidates are unlikely to lead to fiscally conservative ends.
Conservatives may distrust the idea of making a grand fiscal bargain with President Obama. Some may believe that the balance of political influence is shifting in their favor anyhow. Yet from a 10-to-1 starting point, or even from 6-to-1 (one of the deals rumored to be on the table a few months ago) the bargain cannot improve all that much more in favor of spending cuts over taxes. Refusing such a bargain also requires an extreme estimate of how much American public opinion will swing in the conservatives' direction. Keep in mind, too, that once Republican politicians are in power, they are often less keen to cut spending.
Of course, it may be rational to worry that a grand fiscal bargain isn't much of a bargain at all. A prudent deal may postpone much of the spending reductions until the economy picks up. Perhaps we'll end up getting the tax increases up front, and the promised spending reductions will never materialize. Congress may break its word and not make those cuts in future years, or maybe a national emergency -- real or fabricated -- will bring a completely new fiscal plan. Even so, it's hard to see the harm in having tried to reach a deal, and taxes will eventually go up in any case, because they must.
What's more, a vote for a grand fiscal bargain, in which both Republicans and Democrats have at least once endorsed a common vision of reducing entitlement spending, would increase the chance that reform would stick.
The more cynical interpretation of the Republican candidates' stance on taxes is that they are signaling loyalty to a cause, or simply marketing themselves to voters, rather than acting in good faith. It could be that candidates are more worried about having to publicly endorse tax increases than they are about the tax increases themselves. If that's true, it is all the more reason to watch out for our pocketbooks; it means that the candidates are protecting themselves rather than the taxpayers.
The final lesson is this: Many professed fiscal conservatives still find it necessary to pander to voter illusions that only a modicum of fiscal adjustment is needed. That's an indication of how far we are from true fiscal conservatism, but also a sign of how much it is needed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT BAKAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); AGING (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); AGING TRENDS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



73 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Showtime) HOMELAND Is he a Qaeda operative or not? Claire Danes, above, stars as Carrie Mathison, a psychologically tormented C.I.A. officer who suspects that Sgt. Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis), a Marine who is rescued in Afghanistan after spending eight years in captivity, may not be quite the hero he's cracked up to be in this new thriller inspired by an Israeli series, ''Hatufim'' (''Prisoners of War''). Morena Baccarin is Brody's beautiful wife, who has moved on with their children. And Mandy Patinkin is Carrie's boss and mentor, Saul Berenson, whom she deceives to mount a rogue surveillance operation. ''This series is not particularly high-tech, and it doesn't have a real-time ticking clock conceit, spectacular special effects or preposterous red herrings,'' Alessandra Stanley wrote in The New York Times. ''Homeland' is '24' for grown-ups.'' The Season 6 premiere of ''Dexter,'' in which the forensics expert and serial killer (Michael C. Hall) shows up at his 20th high school reunion with a plan to go mano a mano with the prom king, leads in at 9. 
9 A.M. (CNN) STATE OF THE UNION WITH CANDY CROWLEY Former Vice President Dick Cheney and his daughter Liz discuss the killing of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born cleric who was a leading figure with Al Qaeda's Yemen affiliate, as well as the 2012 Republican presidential field, President Obama's jobs plans and his chances for re-election. In ''Fareed Zakaria GPS,'' at 10, Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, discusses Pakistan, the killing of Osama bin Laden, leaving the Obama administration, the scheduled withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and proposed Pentagon budget cuts.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR Ms. Amanpour interviews the Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain. Mr. Cain also appears on ''Fox News Sunday With Chris Wallace,'' at 10, alongside Frederick W. Smith, the chairman and chief executive of FedEx, and Robert L. Johnson, the founder of Black Entertainment Television, who will discuss President Obama's economic policies.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona; Gov. Martin O'Malley, Democrat of Maryland; and Gov. Haley Barbour, Republican of Mississippi, discuss the 2012 presidential campaign, the economy and foreign policy.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts discuss the presidential race.
11 A.M. (TV One) WASHINGTON WATCH A new season begins as the host, Roland Martin, talks with Gene B. Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, about President Obama's jobs plan. He also speaks with the hip-hop artist and actor Common about his memoir, ''One Day It'll All Make Sense,'' and with Charles J. Ogletree Jr., a Harvard law professor, about the execution of Troy Davis and whether the legal system is biased against blacks.
7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES Andy Rooney makes his last regular appearance and discusses his career with Morley Safer.
8 P.M. (13, 49) PROHIBITION Ken Burns and Lynn Novick take on gangsters, rumrunners, flappers and Carrie Nation in this three-part series about America's experiment with banning alcoholic beverages. ''Mr. Burns and Ms. Novick, commendably, don't beat you over the head with the obvious lessons for those today who would legislate personal behavior; they largely let the story of Prohibition speak for itself,'' Neil Genzlinger wrote in The Times. ''The message isn't simply that an amendment based on restricting rights (rather than on guaranteeing them, as the others do) was doomed to fail. It's that such overzealous meddling can have all sorts of unintended consequences.''
10 P.M. (HBO) HUNG Ray (Thomas Jane, left), the high school coach turned middle-aged male escort, begins a third season as he and his business partner, Tanya Skagle (Jane Adams), embark on a new venture: a wellness center for women, starring the healing powers of Ray's genetic gift. Meanwhile, their rival Lenore (Rebecca Creskoff) unveils some fresh young competition (Stephen Amell). In the Season 2 premiere of ''How to Make It in America,'' at 10:30, the enterprising Ben (Bryan Greenberg) and Cam (Victor Rasuk) return to New York after a stint in Japan and scour the downtown scene for business connections to bolster their fashion line of T-shirts and hoodies. Rachel (Lake Bell) realizes she still has feelings for Ben, but discovers that he's seeing Julie (Margarita Levieva). KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BRIDGES/SHOWTIME) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); MURDER (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); FORENSICS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); AL-QAEDA (64%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); DICK CHENEY (55%); DEVAL PATRICK (50%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (50%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (50%); HALEY BARBOUR (50%); HERMAN CAIN (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



74 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Missing The Populist Moment

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
BY rights, this should be the election when conservative populists, frequently thwarted and co-opted by the Republican Party's kingmakers, finally succeed in pushing an insurgent candidate to the top of the presidential ticket. Between the zeal of the Tea Party, the unlovability of Mitt Romney and the widespread hatred of all things Washington, there's never been a better time to run against the Republican establishment and win.
But the populists haven't found a standard-bearer capable of taking advantage of this moment. Sarah Palin's act grew tiresome, Mike Huckabee decided to stick with television, the Donald Trump bubble came and went, and Tim Pawlenty spent months running for president without anybody noticing. This left Michele Bachmann as the leading populist alternative to Romney -- a status she enjoyed right up until the moment people started listening to what she was actually saying. 
Rick Perry was supposed to put an end to the game of musical chairs. He was an outsider with insider connections, a populist with experience and organization, a successful governor whose anti-Washington persona guaranteed him credibility with the conservative grass roots.
But then came Perry's performance in the last two Republican debates. Tongue-tied, underprepared and tone-deaf, the Texas governor mangled his attack lines, lost the thread of his arguments and accused rank-and-file conservatives -- his natural base -- of heartlessness on immigration. In recent polling, he's already lost a large chunk of his initial support to yet another potential populist standard-bearer -- the pizza mogul Herman Cain.
This cycle of populist disappointment has probably raised the Republican Party's odds of taking the White House in 2012, by making a swift coronation for Mitt Romney more and more likely. (So long as a certain New Jersey governor doesn't lumber into the race, that is.) But it's a missed opportunity for American conservatism. Republican primary voters deserve a better class of right-wing populist, and the country does as well.
In many ways, the ideological divisions between populist and establishment Republicans have narrowed since the days of Ronald Reagan and Gerald Ford. (Even a supposed moderate like Jon Huntsman has much more in common with Reagan than with a Ford or a Nelson Rockefeller.) Today's intra-Republican battles often revolve more around style than substance, pitting Wasilla against Wall Street, Paint Creek against Harvard Business School, the uncompromising purity of the talk-radio dial against the deal-making required to govern.
But amid the bombast and identity politics, it's still possible to discern a serious populist critique of how the Republican establishment does business -- one that links Pat Buchanan's primary campaigns in the 1990s to figures like Palin, Huckabee, Cain and Ron Paul today.
This critique accuses the Republican leadership of being too cavalier about illegal immigration, too forgiving of crony capitalism and Wall Street-Washington coziness, too promiscuous with overseas military interventions, and too willing to imitate Democrats and centralize power in Washington. Right-wing populists tend to argue that Beltway Republicans have lost touch with the party's core constituencies: small-business owners, middle-class families and Main Street, U.S.A.
These arguments often have merit. The trouble is that no populist politician has been able to deliver an agenda to match. Having identified important problems, right-wing populists almost inevitably rally to unworkable solutions.
The populist ''answers'' to middle-class economic anxieties, for instance, are usually gimmicks that would make the problem worse: Buchanan's post-cold-war case for protectionism; Huckabee's zeal for the so-called Fair Tax; Paul's call for a return to the gold standard; Cain's budget-busting ''9-9-9'' plan for tax reform. The populist ''answer'' to the growth of federal power is usually a rote invocation of the 10th Amendment, with little detail on how it should actually be applied. And at least during the debt ceiling debate, the populist ''answer'' to Wall Street's influence in Washington was to shoot financial markets in the head by refusing to pay the country's debts.
These policy failures have been exacerbated by the weird celebrity culture that Fox News creates around conservative politicians, which can make Republican presidential campaigns feel like cable news auditions. Thanks to Roger Ailes's network, the right's populist folk heroes have career incentives to choose superficiality over substance -- the better to follow in Huckabee's and Palin's footsteps, and segue into a career as host of ''Bachmann Overdrive'' or ''9-9-9 at 9.''
This is the irony of Fox's impact on Republican politics. In a sense, the network's shows have given right-wing populism a larger megaphone than it's ever had before. But by turning populism into mass entertainment, they've made it less and less likely that a conservative populist will ever actually deserve to win.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICK PERRY (73%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RON PAUL (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); DONALD TRUMP (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



75 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: On Immigrant Tuition, Texans See It Perry's Way

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor at The Texas Tribune, writes a column for The Tribune.
Rick Perry's tuition troubles have a lot to do with the difference between politics in Texas and politics everywhere else.
His support for in-state tuition for the children of illegal immigrants -- and the fact that he's sticking with it -- started a political tornado. It was enough to make Herman Cain say he would vote for Mitt Romney for president but not for Mr. Perry.
In Texas, there was almost no controversy when the law passed in 2001 with nearly unanimous support from lawmakers of both parties, and it hasn't been much of an issue since -- or wasn't, until that twister touched ground. Earlier this year, an effort to undo it died in the halls of the Capitol. 
And there's a way to sell it. John Sharp, the new chancellor of the Texas A&M University System and an on-again, off-again buddy of the governor's, fielded a question about it at a Texas Tribune event last week. He made it sound easy, blaming the federal government for leaving the gate open and then turning the result into an issue of education and economic development that the state was forced to address. It looked, in that version, as if the governor had no choice. The audience -- a Texas audience -- appeared to swallow it whole. Maybe Mr. Sharp should join Mr. Perry's debate prep team.
''Here's what you've got,'' Mr. Sharp, a Democrat, said in response to a question from the audience. ''The federal government is allowing folks to come in -- granted, allowing folks to come in that ought not be allowed to come in. O.K.?''
He said lawmakers had to react to that, sounding as if he were writing a new chapter for Mr. Perry's book ''Fed Up!''
''The governor, the Legislature, the 174 members who voted for that piece of legislation did not get the choice of whether or not those kids were there,'' Mr. Sharp said. ''Their choice is whether or not those kids are going to become productive citizens or become one hell of a drag on the Texas economy, and that's it. It seems that common sense dictates that maybe, from a Texas point of view, we need to make sure they're not that kind of a drag on the Texas economy.''
He's echoing Steve Murdock, the former director of the United States Census Bureau, who is now teaching at Rice University in Houston. Mr. Murdock said illegal immigrants made up 6.7 percent of the state's population and that leaving them uneducated would devastate the state economy by 2040.
Judging from the number of nodding heads in the audience, Mr. Sharp's line worked in Austin. It might well have fallen flat on the presidential debate stage, though it could hardly have gone worse than the reaction Mr. Perry received.
The tuition-immigrant thing isn't a new issue in Texas and doesn't seem to sound the same alarms here that it sounds at national political debates. Eddie Aldrete, an executive with IBC Bank of Laredo, was recently speaking to a student at the University of Texas whose friend had graduated and was having a hard time becoming a United States citizen. Mr. Aldrete, with a hat tip to Bill Gates, suggested we staple visas to diplomas, the better to keep graduates of Texas universities here, working in this economy, rather than sending them home to compete with us.
The argument that sells in Texas -- or has sold, up to now -- has to do with the state's relative comfort with immigrants, legal and illegal. People get riled, and legislators file bills and all that, but there is also a political recognition that this is a well-established part of the Texas population and culture.
Maybe that's an outmoded idea that won't survive the election cycle. Representative Will Hartnett, Republican of Dallas, announced this week that he wouldn't seek a 12th term in the Texas House next year. He cited his reasons, and he listed his accomplishments, including this one: ''In 2001, Hartnett was the only House member who voted against passage of the now controversial HB1403, which provides in-state college tuition for undocumented immigrants.''
Maybe it's just a local flavor that doesn't travel too far from the Mexican border. With the exception of a minority that includes Mr. Hartnett and others, people here don't seem to mind.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CENSUS (61%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



76 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2725 words

HEADLINE: On the Road to Detroit's Big Pileup

 BODY:
If General Motors were any other company, it would probably be dead by now. In the summer of 2008, nearly a year before G.M. filed for bankruptcy, its executives were growing desperate. Rick Wagoner, its chief executive, secretly proposed a merger with Ford, while Bill Ford courted the future president, Barack Obama, in an attempt to safeguard his company. This article is adapted from ''Once Upon a Car: The Fall and Resurrection of America's Big Three Automakers -- G.M., Ford and Chrysler'' by Bill Vlasic, the Detroit bureau chief of The New York Times. The book, to be published Tuesday by William Morrow, reveals new details of the chaos at the Big Three. Conversations recounted in the book were based on more than 100 interviews.
DETROIT
''HI, Bill, it's Rick Wagoner. You know, I think it's really time we put our companies together.'' 
Bill Ford wasn't sure he'd heard right. Mr. Wagoner, the chairman and chief executive of General Motors, wanted to talk about a merger between Ford and G.M.?
He did. Mr. Wagoner and his operating chief, Fritz Henderson, would come by to talk.
Mr. Ford was stunned. He knew G.M. was desperate. But even now, in July 2008, he had no idea it was this desperate. And he couldn't snub Rick Wagoner. Sure, Mr. Ford said. Come on over, and bring Fritz.
The idea had been the subject of theoretical debate for years. What if G.M. and Ford joined forces? Even in their shrunken state, they would have a combined 38 percent share of the United States market, and a huge international presence. All that purchasing power, manufacturing muscle and technical skill under one roof. Thousands of overlapping jobs could be eliminated. Painful as that might be, it could save billions. Chrysler? Forget it. Instead of a Big Three, there would be a Big One.
But could it even be done? G.M. and Ford had competed head-on for decades. This was not just a rivalry. This was opposite sides of town, you-stay-on-yours-and-I'll-stay-on-mine. So, as a practical matter, a merger had never been seriously considered -- until now.
Bill Ford didn't like the sound of it. G.M. must be in serious trouble if its executives were coming to Ford for help or answers. The idea of a merger nauseated him. The U.A.W. would go nuts.
Mr. Ford spoke with his C.E.O., Alan R. Mulally, and they agreed that they had to talk to G.M., if only to find out what was going on. Mr. Wagoner's approach was out of character. Maybe G.M. was in even worse shape than it was letting on.
The meeting that followed would profoundly affect the course of both automakers. Mr. Wagoner and Mr. Henderson arrived with Ray Young, G.M.'s chief financial officer. Don Leclair, Ford's C.F.O., joined, too.
Mr. Wagoner began. G.M. and Ford should merge, he said. The synergies would be phenomenal. Savings would be huge. The possibilities were endless.
Bill Ford was shocked. G.M. was serious. Who, he asked, would run this new company? As bad as Ford's stock price was, Ford still had a higher market value than G.M.
Mr. Wagoner noted that G.M. was bigger in terms of sales. So, by all rights, it should probably be in charge. But maybe they could share management, or discuss it later, he suggested.
Mr. Mulally mostly listened. He wanted to know more about G.M.'s true state. He surely didn't want any part of any merger. As far as he was concerned, G.M. was a roaring five-alarm fire. Why, he asked, was it coming to Ford now?
Mr. Wagoner and Mr. Henderson explained that G.M. was running low on cash and was having trouble borrowing money. By merging with Ford, it could go back to Wall Street.
So that's what this is about. G.M. is going broke, Bill Ford realized. Ford had $30 billion in the bank, and that's what G.M. really wanted. It wasn't about Ford at all. It was about saving G.M. Mr. Ford didn't need to hear any more. ''No thanks,'' he said. ''This would never work out. ''
Mr. Henderson jumped in, reiterating how good a marriage could be. ''Don and I did a lot of work on this earlier,'' he said. ''I know G.M. inside and out, and Don knows Ford inside and out. Between the two of us we could figure it out pretty quickly.''
Mr. Leclair kept his mouth shut. Mr. Ford was doing the talking.
''No,'' Mr. Ford said. ''No, thanks.''
Mr. Wagoner understood. This wasn't happening. ''Well if you don't do it with us,'' he said, ''we're going to look elsewhere.'' With that, the G.M. execs left.
At first, Mr. Ford was angry. G.M. could be so arrogant. But the overture was disturbing. If G.M. went bankrupt, a big part of the automotive supply chain could collapse. That would hurt the entire industry, including Ford. Bill Ford respected G.M.'s power and mass as no one else at Ford could. After all, he is a great-grandson of Henry Ford.
''I grew up in this town, and G.M. was the giant,'' he later recalled. ''That was just the reality of life for me from childhood.''
Mr. Mulally was amazed at G.M.'s desperation. From the day he came to Ford, he wanted to beat G.M., and to beat it badly. So if G.M. was going belly-up or merging with someone, he wanted to know. But Ford was on its own road, and he wasn't turning over the wheel to Rick Wagoner or anyone else.
A FEW weeks before the G.M.-Ford meeting, Rick Wagoner assembled his senior executives at G.M.'s base in the Renaissance Center downtown for an announcement: G.M. was not going under -- not yet.
''We are highly confident that we have ample liquidity through 2009,'' he told reporters.
But could G.M. really survive for 18 months, given that it was burning through more than $1 billion a month?
Mr. Wagoner said G.M. would raise a $15 billion ''cushion,'' primarily by cutting thousands of salaried jobs, suspending its stock dividend, freezing wages, canceling executive bonuses and eliminating health care coverage for white-collar retirees over 65. On top of that, it would whack 300,000 more units of truck production, cut marketing costs (including dropping its giant Nascar and professional golf sponsorships), reduce spending on new products by 20 percent and delay its first big payment into the U.A.W. health care trust.
All of that would save about $10 billion, Mr. Wagoner said. After that, G.M. hoped to raise $5 billion by selling everything it could -- real estate and the rest of its G.M.A.C. finance unit, as well as its Hummer brand and maybe others. Finally, it would borrow whatever it could on Wall Street, using assets in the United States and abroad as collateral.
It sounded as if G.M. was burning the furniture so it wouldn't freeze to death. Bob Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman, swore that the company would not compromise on the quality of its new models. But this was the first time it had decided to cut capital spending this much since the recession of the early 1990s.
Mr. Wagoner looked grim. He wore a gray suit, a yellow-striped tie and a long face, the corners of his mouth frozen in a frown. As he sat with his hands folded in front of the bright blue G.M. logo, he appeared to be trying to convince the reporters of something he had a hard time believing himself.
''Our plan is not a plan to survive,'' he said flatly. ''It is a plan to win.''
Questions were taken, but not really answered. Before the press conference ended, Moody's Investors Service had downgraded G.M.'s credit rating deeper into junk status.
Afterward, when Mr. Henderson made the first calls to big banks in New York, it was as if no one even wanted to answer the phone. Asking investment banks to raise even a few billion dollars was a joke. He swallowed hard. ''It was bad,'' he later recalled. ''Things just kept getting worse and worse and worse.''
G.M. needed something to open Wall Street's spigots. That something, he told Mr. Wagoner, was a merger with Ford.
To his surprise, Mr. Wagoner agreed.
AFTER Ford rejected G.M.'s proposal, Mr. Henderson felt as if someone had popped his balloon. So much for the event that would convince Wall Street to lend to G.M. ''That would have been the catalyst,'' he would recall later. ''You could actually use it to raise capital because the amount of synergies would be massive. Massive!''
Now he felt a growing sense of dread. He had been counting on Ford to be a lifeline. At this point, he knew G.M.'s financial status better than anyone, even Mr. Wagoner. He couldn't blame Ford for slamming the door. His idea might have worked, he said later. ''But sitting in their shoes, I could understand why they didn't want to do it,'' he said. ''It wasn't a simple call for them.''
Mr. Lutz was disappointed to hear how the Ford meeting had gone. To him, a merger would prove once and for all that an American company could whip Toyota, or anyone else. ''It could be one large, enormously powerful global automobile company,'' he had argued. ''You could shut one proving ground, one finance department, one tax department, a bunch of plants, get rid of a lot of engineering. We could get rid of the fixed costs even before the acquisition.''
Mr. Wagoner didn't even want to talk about it. He had tried and failed. Move on, he figured. It was another example of G.M.'s dysfunction at the top. There was something missing among Mr. Wagoner, Mr. Lutz and Mr. Henderson, some chemistry or cover-my-back mentality. They worked together, but not ''together,'' as the Ford guys did.
Nobody outside the tight inner circles at G.M. and Ford knew of the secret meeting. To much of the world, the two companies were joined at the hip, Detroit's version of Dumb and Dumber. The public and cable TV's talking heads were no longer distinguishing among the Big Three. It was everybody's turn in the barrel.
That was driven home with the financial results for the 2008 spring quarter: an $8.7 billion loss at Ford, the worst quarter in its 105-year history, and a $15.5 billion loss at G.M., its third worst in a century. The numbers were staggering. G.M.'s revenue in North America had fallen $10 billion -- a breathtaking 33 percent -- from the year-earlier quarter. Ford took an $8 billion charge just to write down assets. The whole United States car market had imploded.
Yet G.M.'s board seemed to be in denial. The lead director, George Fisher, jumped to the company's defense. ''I'm reading too much stuff in the papers these days that is wrong,'' Mr. Fisher grumbled in an interview. ''It's a distraction to the board and a distraction to management.'' Was G.M. headed for bankruptcy? ''The answer is no, absolutely not,'' he said.
His optimism seemed remarkable. Mr. Wagoner and Mr. Henderson had just hurled a Hail Mary pass in Ford's direction. Sales were atrocious and getting worse. Cash reserves were dwindling, and more expenses were coming in. Delphi, the big auto parts maker that had been spun off from G.M., was trying to find a private-equity buyer to emerge from bankruptcy. And it looked as if G.M. would be on the hook for another $3 billion to $4 billion to cover pension obligations of Delphi workers.
No happy talk was coming from Ford. Mr. Mulally, in daily sessions with senior executives, kept raising the volume. ''What does a sustainable Ford look like, gentlemen?'' he asked at one point. ''Why are we in business? We are in business to create value. And we can't create value if we go out of business.''
Excuses were unacceptable. ''Why can't we make money on small cars?'' he asked. ''Do you think Toyota can't make money on small cars?''
On the day Ford reported its huge loss, it rolled out the next phase of Mr. Mulally's transformation plan -- converting three truck plants in Michigan, Kentucky and Mexico to small-car production, ramping up the output of four-cylinder engines and introducing a new wrinkle in ''EcoBoost,'' an engine technology that simultaneously increased power and fuel economy. Industry analysts were floored that Ford was pouring so much money into capital improvements under such dire circumstances. But Mr. Mulally seemed impervious to the sense of panic building in Detroit.
ON Aug. 4, as Mr. Mulally huddled with his team, Bill Ford was en route to Lansing to meet Barack Obama, then running for president. The one-on-one had been arranged by Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan, a personal friend of Mr. Ford. Bill Ford wanted to get to know this young, environmentally minded candidate. The election was three months away, and Mr. Obama looked like a winner.
Much of what was happening to the American auto industry had political overtones. Ford was aware that G.M. was planning to go to Washington to lobby for aid. Specifically, Mr. Wagoner wanted some of the $25 billion in Department of Energy loans authorized by Congress the previous year, when lawmakers passed new fuel-economy standards. The loans were intended as seed money for technology to meet the tougher guidelines. But the $25 billion wasn't in the budget yet, and G.M. was taking no chances. It needed that money -- and not just for greener cars.
Mr. Ford had a growing sense that whatever went down in Detroit, the federal government would be intimately involved. And he wanted to make a personal connection with the man who could be the next president.
Mr. Obama had a huge crowd for his speech at Michigan State University. Cheers came in waves when he promised to help Michigan out of its woes.
''I know how much the auto industry and the autoworkers of this state have struggled,'' he said. ''But I also know where I want the fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow to be built -- not in Japan, not in China, but right here in the United States of America. Right here in the state of Michigan!''
Afterward, he and Mr. Ford met alone. Mr. Obama had been forthright on the campaign trail about Detroit's past, its dependence on gas-guzzling trucks and its reluctance to change. He had echoed those points in his speech, speaking of ending America's dependence on foreign oil.
''We desperately need a new energy policy in this country,'' he told Mr. Ford. ''And I would like the domestic auto industry to be part of the solution, not part of the problem.''
Mr. Ford had a ready reply: ''We'd love to work with your administration. I passionately believe that Ford can and should be part of the solution.''
Then he went through Ford's transformation: smaller cars, cleaner engines, electric vehicles in development. ''The vision I have is for us to be a global, green, high-tech company,'' he said. ''And that's not just a vision.''
The two hit it off and then got technical -- how to build batteries for electric cars, create an infrastructure of charging stations, target tax credits to shift consumers into super-efficient vehicles. When it was over, they shook hands like new friends. Mr. Ford felt great. Everything Mr. Obama wanted, he wanted, too. ''I think he's exactly in line,'' Mr. Ford said after the meeting, ''with where society wants us to go.''
GREEN cars were also very much on Mr. Wagoner's mind. In late summer 2008, he told Mr. Lutz that the single biggest product responsibility on his plate was to deliver a working version of the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid by Sept. 16 -- the day of G.M.'s 100th birthday celebration. ''Bob, we need it then,'' Mr. Wagoner said.
Mr. Wagoner was gearing up for the ultimate sales job: to persuade Washington to help G.M. The presidential campaign was about to kick into overdrive. The Bush administration was already swamped with Wall Street's crisis, and Congress was in its re-election frenzy. If G.M. was to win over Capitol Hill and the White House, it needed a powerful message. It couldn't come limping in, begging. It had to represent progress, innovation, a bright future.
That's where the Volt came in. It was the one car G.M. had that nobody else had, a blend of electric power and convenience. When the battery ran down, a little motor kicked in and kept it going. What could be smarter?
Mr. Lutz had been riding the Volt team hard. For once, he could stick it to Toyota. But he wasn't sure about that September timetable. The Volt wouldn't even go on sale for another two years. Was it really necessary to have it ready for the G.M. birthday party?
Yes, Mr. Wagoner told him. G.M. needed that car.
G.M. got the Volt, but it wasn't enough. By the time the first one rolled off the line on Nov. 30, 2010, Mr. Wagoner had been forced out by the Obama administration as part of a $50 billion bailout.
Copyright [COPYRIGHT] 2011 by Bill Vlasic. To be published on Oct. 4, 2011, by William Morrow, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (BU1)
In 2008, Detroit's Big Three automakers were reeling. Only a few cars, at left, sat near a closed factory. At right, U.A.W. members in Warren, Mich., listened to the details of imminent cutbacks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)
A ''buy American'' plea in Dallas in late 2008, above. At a Congressional hearing, top, were Rick Wagoner of G.M., Ron Gettelfinger of the U.A.W., Alan Mulally of Ford and Robert Nardelli of Chrysler. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA RINALD/REUTERS
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (91%); FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ALAN MULALLY (57%); BOB NARDELLI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Once Upon a Car (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



77 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, October 2nd 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the October 2, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending September 17, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1204THUNDER DOG, by Michael Hingson with Susy Flory. (Thomas Nelson) A blind man and his guide dog show the power of trust and courage in the midst of devastating terror on Sept. 11. 2234HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 31JACQUELINE KENNEDY: HISTORIC CONVERSATIONS ON LIFE WITH JOHN F. KENNEDY, . (Hyperion) Recordings and transcripts of a seven-part interview with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. in 1964. 4434UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 5510A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman tells of her ordeal of being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 611LIFE, by Keith Richards with James Fox. (Little, Brown) The Rolling Stones guitarist&#39;s revealing autobiography is also a portrait of the era when rock &#38; roll came of age. 7719IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 832THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (MacMillan) How America fell behind in the world it invented, and how it can come back. 9824BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 1063IN MY TIME, by Dick Cheney with Liz Cheney. (Threshhold) The former vice president opens up about his life and nearly four decades at the core of American politics. 11934THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 12116AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 131THE BLACK BANNERS, by Ali H. Soufan with Daniel Freedman. (Norton) Rivalry and dysfunction among counterintelligence agencies made it impossible to stop the 9/11 plot, according to this former F.B.I. agent. 14124MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (Norton) How Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, has produced successful teams despite having one of the smallest payrolls in baseball. 151HERE COMES TROUBLE, by Michael Moore. (Grand Central) Stories from the life of the provocative filmmaker. 161GRAND PURSUIT, by Sylvia Nasar. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The making of modern economics, told through the lives of economists, by the author of &#8220;A Beautiful Mind.&#8221; 171634THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 18103WHAT IT IS LIKE TO GO TO WAR, by Karl Marlantes. (Atlantic Monthly) Marlantes, a Vietnam veteran, takes a personal look at the ordeals of combat, including its harrowing aftermath. 19156AFTER AMERICA, by Mark Steyn. (Regnery) The writer foresees Armageddon for the United States, which he maintains has caught up with Europe in the rush to self-destruction. 201919SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his military training and missions. 211712THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday) How an architect and a serial killer were linked by the Chicago World&#39;s Fair of 1893. 221HAPPY ACCIDENTS, by Jane Lynch. (Hyperion) The actor-comedian&#8217;s memoir discusses her unlikely career path from Dolton, Ill., to &#8220;Glee&#8221;; her sexuality; and the end of her drinking. 231MESSAGES, by Bonnie McEneaney. (HarperCollins) Signs, visits and premonitions from loved ones lost on Sept. 11, 2001. 24184COCKTAIL HOUR UNDER THE TREE OF FORGETFULNESS, by Alexandra Fuller. (Penguin Group) Fuller&#39;s mother is at the center of this memoir set in Africa. 25133UNMEASURED STRENGTH, by Lauren Manning. (Holt) A 9/11 survivor recounts her re-creation as a wife, mother and woman.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. LIFE ITSELF, by Roger Ebert. (Grand Central)
27. CLEOPATRA, by Stacy Schiff. (Little, Brown)
28. GHOST IN THE WIRES, by Kevin Mitnick with William L. Simon. (Little, Brown)
29. ARGUABLY, by Christopher Hitchens. (Grand Central)
30. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown)
31. THE EIGHTY-DOLLAR CHAMPION, by Elizabeth Letts. (Random House)
32. 1493, by Charles C. Mann. (Knopf Doubleday)
33. THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
34. ONE DAY IT&#39;LL ALL MAKE SENSE, by Common with Adam Bradley. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
35. BONHOEFFER, by Eric Metaxas. (Thomas Nelson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); DOGS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (63%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (71%); KEITH RICHARDS (50%); TINA FEY (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); DICK CHENEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011



78 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, A New Leader Who Knows No Boundaries

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
IT'S not as if Alan Pierson were hunting for a new job. A lean, sharp and energetic 37-year-old conductor, Mr. Pierson has made an enviable name for himself over the last decade as the artistic director of Alarm Will Sound, a vital, omnivorous 20-member chamber ensemble formed in 2001 by graduate students at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester.
Working with Alarm Will Sound has earned Mr. Pierson a glowing reputation as an insightful, flexible leader in a vast range of modern music: from John Adams and Harrison Birtwistle to Edgard Varese and Frank Zappa, with significant sidelong ventures into classic Beatles songs and complex electronica by Aphex Twin. Along the way Mr. Pierson picked up a second engagement as the principal conductor of the Crash Ensemble, a 14-year-old Irish contemporary-classical outfit.
Those activities, along with a full schedule of freelance engagements, were more than enough to keep Mr. Pierson occupied. But with a performance on Saturday evening during the Restoration Rocks Music Festival in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, Mr. Pierson enters uncharted territory as the new artistic director of the Brooklyn Philharmonic. In the concert, one of two events designated by the orchestra as season previews, Mr. Pierson and members of the orchestra will collaborate with the prominent hip-hop artist Mos Def. 
More than a surprising detour in Mr. Pierson's ascendant career path, the concert shows a spark of life for the Brooklyn Philharmonic, an august and hardy institution founded in 1857 and lately fallen on hard times. A groundbreaking ensemble internationally known for its provocative programming, it evaporated in recent years to a trickle of community-oriented chamber-music events.
''The choice to let that happen actually has been good for us,'' Mr. Pierson said during a recent interview in his apartment in Hell's Kitchen. ''The institution had time to really wipe the slate clean and reconsider everything, and then come out again with something new, without the burden of attachment to something old,'' a distinction that could help the orchestra avoid the kind of negative publicity that has greeted similar notions of reinvention afoot at the New York City Opera.
The orchestra retains the benefits of its name and its legacy, he added, ''but we don't have a thousand subscribers who were on a season last year, wanting to know why it's something different this year.''
What the Brooklyn Philharmonic does not have, at least for now, is a steady home to replace its longtime residence at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Instead, the ensemble intends to establish enduring bases throughout the borough. In addition to Bedford-Stuyvesant, it will be active in Brighton Beach, where it will present rare Soviet-era Russian cartoon music with its current full complement of 40 musicians in early November, and in downtown Brooklyn, where it will perform at Roulette next March.
A peripatetic existence with uncertain returns might terrify most potential artistic directors. For Mr. Pierson, who will continue his associations with Alarm Will Sound and Crash Ensemble, it was an enticement.
''There were two things they had that piqued my interest,'' he said of the initial discussions. ''One was the beginning of this really interesting sketch of making the Brooklyn Philharmonic Brooklyn's orchestra.'' Rather than going from neighborhood to neighborhood, hat in hand, the orchestra would insert itself into new communities in organic and meaningful ways, absorbing cultural lessons and cross-pollinating aesthetics and audiences.
''The second thing they had that was great was nothing else,'' Mr. Pierson said. ''There was no 'Here's our six-concert subscription season, we can't lose that,' or 'We have this great pops program that's bringing in a lot of money, we don't want to touch that.' There was nothing set in stone.''
The process of shrugging off the burdens of convention and expectation was under way before Mr. Pierson was hired, said Jack W. Rainey, a senior vice president of TD Bank and a member of the orchestra's board who became its chairman in January. ''We really were at the point of, 'Look, financially we're sort of hemorrhaging here, like many nonprofits and orchestras, and what exactly is our mission?' '' he said in a telephone interview.
''We went back and did a strategic planning exercise, which was really internal, but led us to the decision that what we have to be first is the Brooklyn Philharmonic,'' Mr. Rainey said, emphasizing the word Brooklyn, ''in that we need to learn from, play to and embrace our home community.''
Mr. Pierson's hand in the season ahead is evident in a number of eclectic programs with historical, cultural and literary ties to the borough. Canonical works by Copland and Bernstein and pieces by rising Brooklyn composers mingle with traditional shape-note singing, jazz and hip-hop, all of it integral to the orchestra's work, rather than treated as fringe programming. Still, Mr. Pierson said, the chance to conduct mainstream classical repertory like Beethoven's Third Symphony, which will be parceled out among several concerts, was an opportunity he relished.
What made the position a good fit for him, he added, was a taste for developing ideas collaboratively that he honed in Alarm Will Sound and now exercises with residents in the neighborhoods where the Philharmonic will be active. ''To sit in these meetings in Brighton Beach and Bed-Stuy, and say, 'What can an orchestra offer you guys, what are you interested in hearing?' '' he said, ''then listen to the responses, scratch your head and think, 'Wow, what'll we do with that?' is really stimulating.''
Working alongside Mr. Pierson in those meetings is Richard Dare, the orchestra's new chief executive officer and managing director. A 46-year-old international investment strategist from San Francisco, Mr. Dare studied composition years ago, but he had no experience in running a nonprofit when he took on his new role. Energetic and unvarnished, he contacted the Brooklyn Philharmonic while in New York visiting his wife, a graduate student at Columbia University.
''I just wanted to go to a concert in Brooklyn, because I'd heard that Brooklyn was so white-hot with all this artistic milieu,'' he said, reached by telephone in the orchestra's offices, in Dumbo. He reasoned that an ensemble in that borough should also be flourishing. ''When I looked, I couldn't find much about it except for all the sort of dread news and 'save the symphony' kinds of stuff,'' he said. ''That's why I got involved.''
Mr. Dare's faith in creative activity as a sure investment regardless of the economic climate fit the board's plan to rebuild the Philharmonic from the ground up. Unlike other cultural resources like the Brooklyn Museum and Prospect Park, he said, the orchestra is an asset that can be exported to promote Brooklyn's vitality.
That the fate of a Brooklyn institution now resides in the hands of two newcomers is lost on no one. Still, chemistry between Mr. Pierson and Mr. Dare was evident instantly. ''From the moment we brought those two together,'' Mr. Rainey said, ''magical things started happening.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Pierson, right, the new artistic director for the Brooklyn Philharmonic, comes to the ensemble (below, in 2008), fresh from working with Alarm Will Sound, a 20-member chamber group that takes on modern music of all sorts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL RUBENSTEIN
 RAHAV SEGEV/PHOTOPASS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); RAP MUSIC (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (53%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011



79 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: The Yen And The Low-Inflation Trap

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Real rates are higher here than in America. 

 BODY:
I'm in Japan for a conference tomorrow. Here's how I expect it to go:
I've already had one very jet-lagged meeting, in which I was asked for thoughts on the strong yen, which is making Japanese manufacturers very unhappy. Here are some thoughts.
The key thing, I believe, is that real interest rates in the United States and other advanced countries are now significantly lower than in Japan. If you look at the Treasury real yields, the interest rate on US 5-years indexed to inflation is now around -.5, that's right, minus 0.5. In Japan the nominal rate is lower, but not zero even though markets are signaling that they expect continued deflation over the next 5 years. 
As I've tried to explain, that's because of the option value: short-term rates can go up but they can't go down. And the result is that Japan has a significantly positive real 5-year rate, around 0.7 percent.
So Japan, having allowed deflation to get embedded in expectations, ends up being just what it doesn't want to be: a magnet for capital fleeing low yields in the US and elsewhere.
That said, I would argue that the United States is already on the edge of its own low-inflation trap. Japan is us, a few years from now, but with less misery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFLATION (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



80 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: The Renminbi and US Manufacturing

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Yes, it matters. 

 BODY:
The Senate will be taking up Chinese currency this coming week. So I though I should offer a brief note about one of the arguments people make against focusing on Chinese currency manipulation -- namely, the claim that China doesn't really compete head to head with US manufacturing, so that a rise in the renminbi wouldn't help.
I'd argue that this is wrong on three levels.
First, the notion that there's no head-to-head competition is false. There have lately been quite a few stories about manufacturing moving back from China: the labor costs will always be much higher in America, but other advantages, especially logistical, can make even labor-intensive production worth doing at home.
Second, there are real effects on the US if production moves, say, from China to Mexico. To an important extent, global manufacturing is carried out by regional complexes -- an Asian complex centered on Japan and China in effect competes with a North American complex in which labor-intensive stuff is done in Mexico or Central America. So there's an indirect competitive effect.
Most important, however, is that you really need to think of this as a global adding-up issue. If China and other currency manipulators run smaller trade surpluses, who will be the counterparties? Emerging economies that compete more directly with China than we do are by and large not in liquidity traps, and indeed are facing inflationary pressure. So any Chinese appreciation, while it directly tends to raise their net exports, will probably show up in matching appreciation in their currencies, setting in motion a series of domino effects that end up pushing the adjustment onto countries that are in liquidity traps, namely the US, Japan, and Europe.
The bottom line is that Chinese currency policy does indeed matter for US manufacturing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INFLATION (74%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



81 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Shifting the Suburban Paradigm

BYLINE: ALLISON ARIEFF


HIGHLIGHT: Transforming the single-family home by paying attention to what residents, and communities, really need. 

 BODY:
Is there anything made in America that's less innovative than the single-family home? While we obsess over the new in terms of what we keep our houses - the ever-increasing speed and functionality of our Smartphones, entertainment options built into refrigerators, sophisticated devices that monitor, analyze and report on our sleep cycles, even the superior technology of the running shoes we put on before heading out the flimsy fiberboard door - we're incredibly undemanding of the houses themselves. These continue to be built the same way they have for over a century, and usually not as well. Walls and windows are thin, materials cheap, design (and I use the term loosely) not well-considered. The building process is a protracted affair, taking far too long and creating embarrassing amounts of building waste (over 50 percent of all waste produced in the United States, in fact).
But the lack of innovation extends beyond the high-tech. Not so long ago homes were designed to make the most of their surrounding climate and terrain. Vernacular forms like the shotgun, in places like New Orleans, served a purpose that went far beyond aesthetics - they encouraged natural cooling by improving cross-ventilation. In Texas and New Mexico, thick adobe walls similarly kept heat in during the winter, and out during the summer. Houses were sited and windows placed to maximize or minimize sun exposure as needed. 
No longer. Today, it's essentially the same floor plan, sheetrock and construction that's used coast to coast. Glossy brochures with stock images of smiling families advertise "Spanish Gothic" or "Tuscan Villa," but what's really on offer is the same dumb box with a stage set of a facade tacked onto the front. The reasons behind the advertised vernacular styles have long since disappeared, their function surrendered to ornament.
It's not that the means don't exist for better building. There have been significant advances in homebuilding: smarter, safer, more sustainable materials that contribute to healthier and more energy-efficient structures (less expensive to heat and cool); precision building technologies that reduce construction time and waste; and more enlightened planning principles that recognize the social, economic and health benefits of building homes within denser, more walkable neighborhoods (important as with high levels of driving, which contributes to air pollution, and air pollution leads to morbidity and mortality).
Why? The reasons are complicated. Incentives received by commercial builders for doing the right thing are not extended to residential builders. But it's also true that the homebuilding industry isn't interested in risk or change, despite (in spite of?) dramatic slowdowns in residential construction, an anticipated surplus of thousands of homes, a market besieged by foreclosures and still-dropping home values. Even though there's increasing demand for more diverse housing - especially smaller, more energy-efficient homes and multifamily units in more walkable communities - too many homebuilders are inexplicably committed to the status quo. 
For many in the homebuilding industry, the current scenario is seen not as a call to action but as a temporary problem of the market (I found the same thing to be true in the world of shopping-center builders, who pine for - and fully expect the return of - a go-go consumer culture that is likely gone for good). To address current market realities, they don't look to innovation but rather to an easier fallback strategy: a new marketing plan. 
Five years ago, at the crest of the housing boom, I worked on a team consulting with a master planned-community developer who had asked us to help "revolutionize the way our homes are sold." The developer had little interest in the work we proposed - namely, to revolutionize the way their homes were designed and built. That company, like most of its competitors, laid off nearly half its work force the following year, and ended or delayed most of its future development projects. Devoting energy to how best to market its inventory hadn't been the most forward-thinking strategy for them then - nor would it be now. 
But that's what most developers continue to do. I read just last month about Fulton Homes, a homebuilding company that seems to be weathering the housing market better than its peers by selling homes the same way they'd sell clothing or computers, like any other retail product. In Builder online, Fulton's vice president of operations, Dennis Webb, said, "If the buyer wants it, give it to him." 
Fulton hasn't really changed anything about the homes they produce, regardless of what has happened over the last several years. They've simply hired more sales guys. No doubt you can "like" them on Facebook. In the short term, this has been a prudent move but what about next year? The year after that?
Then there's a company like Blu Homes, which has demonstrated a clear commitment to merging housing and high tech - to the tune of a $25 million investment, in fact. They recognized the tremendous inefficiencies in home-building and have developed 3D technology that allows for personal customization (clients can click a mouse to alter floor plans, choose green features and select finishes), as well as a proprietary building process and innovative steel-framing technology that allows their homes, as their Web site explains, "to be built to the highest aesthetic and environmental standards and be delivered quickly and economically nationwide."
But following a long line of V.C. types dabbling in housing, Blu has set its sights on a small slice of an already niche market - high-end modern prefab, which accounts for maybe half of a percent of the less than 5 percent of architect-designed homes in the country. Devoting this much R&D and software development to so few homes feels akin to installing a $250,000 solar array on a garden shed. Why not devote that energy to transforming cookie-cutter developer homes?
I like what Texas's Lake Flato is doing in this arena, combining vernacular style with precision building technology for their Porch House. Though the firm is building custom one-offs, they are also working on a number of larger projects - one, in Louisiana, involves building nine homes on two blocks of infill property in a historic Baton Rouge neighborhood. The concept is centered around making better use of backyards (less lawn, more sustainable garden) and using the traditional architecture vernacular for that area - the "shotgun" house. 
And even more promising in terms of scale is KB Home's announcement of the ZeroHouse 2.0, a greener version of the company's standard home, which is expected to eliminate monthly electricity charges for homeowners. Model homes featuring the ZeroHouse 2.0 package (it should be but isn't yet standard) open this month in Tampa, San Antonio and Austin. (Now, if KB would just start talking with the architects at Lake Flato.)
Even more prudently, a company like Blu could be directing all that R&D to multi-family housing, currently identified as the only bright spot in residential architecture and, to my mind, the only real path to truly sustainable housing. 
As architectural designer Aron Chang discusses in one of the more intellectually rigorous and thoughtful pieces on suburbia that I've read of late, which appeared in Places journal last month, it's time we focus on "suburbia's essential component" - the freestanding single-family house.
Chang writes, "The disconnection between the rising diversity of housing needs and the monotony of housing production speaks to the tenacity of the postwar American dream - the enduring allure of the detached house with front lawn and backyard patio - as well as to the profitability of catering to these aspirations."
Chang sees this moment - with millions of houses now in foreclosure, many deteriorating or abandoned - as one to seize, and I couldn't agree more. It is possible, he considers, that once the economy revives we will simply return to home-building-as-usual: 
But right now we have an opportunity to rethink suburban housing: to make it responsive not to dated demographics and wishful economics but rather to the actual needs of a diversifying and dynamic population - not only to the so-called traditional households but also to the growing ranks of those who prefer to rent rather than buy, who either can't afford or don't want a 2,000-square-foot-plus detached house, who are retired and living on fixed incomes and maybe driving less, who want granny or nanny flats, who want to pay less for utilities and reduce their carbon footprint, and so on. 
Housing can't be equated with high-tech: a home is, or was, a long-term investment not beholden to the dizzying speeds of change and innovation that drive say, Apple, which must continually reinvent and redefine its product to meet consumer demand. But housing is woefully behind the times, and now it needs to see opportunity in crisis, not wait it out by launching pop-up shops and interactive Web sites that empower consumers to such revolutionary things as customizing bathroom tile and kitchen backsplashes.
I don't care if we're talking Le Corbusier, Cape Cods or Corinthian columns, we can't make any progress in housing until we stop thinking about the home as decorative object and begin considering it as part of a larger whole. How does it work on the street? In the neighborhood? How is it served by transit? Is it adaptable, allowing for the housing of extended families or the hosting of an entrepreneurial endeavor? Can the owner build an accessory dwelling (a.k.a. granny flat) to do so? (Most zoning, homeowners' associations and CCRs don't allow for it currently.) What needs to happen to zoning, to financing, to our very notions of resale value to change the suburban condition - and by extension, the American Dream as we know it? 
We're beyond the point of a fresh coat of paint and a new sales pitch. If we're going to continue to hold on to the single-family home, we need to transform it. There is a demand for smaller, more energy-efficient homes in less car-dependent neighborhoods; all aspects of the industry, from designers to lenders to planners to consumers, should meet it. In this era of anti-government fervor, subsidizing the American Dream isn't an option; transforming it is the only one we've got.

        
The Worst Bathroom in New York
        
Living With Mies
        
Our Buildings, Ourselves
        
Rebirth of a City
        
When Less Was More

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FAMILY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) housing; single-family homes; Allison Arieff

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



82 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Why Bismarck Loved Lincoln

BYLINE: KENNETH WEISBRODE


HIGHLIGHT: What did the Civil War and the wars for German unification have in common? 

 BODY:
We usually think of the Civil War as a uniquely American event, a war unlike any other fought in the Western world during the 19th century. And of course that's true, strictly speaking: no other country saw itself split in two over slavery. But that's not the only way to think of the war. Put a different way, the Civil War was just one of several wars for national unification - including fighting in Italy and Germany - on both sides of the Atlantic during the mid-19th century. 
While countries like Britain and France were concentrating on expansion through colonization, the United States, Germany and others were focused inward, developing - intentionally or not - the centralizing powers that have defined the modern state ever since. What seems like a particularly American event was really part of a much larger, and much more significant, historical trend.
As a war of national unification, the Civil War represented a sharp historical break, a moment of crisis that would define the country's course for decades to come. Beforehand, the notions of national unification and expansion had been indivisible: just 15 years prior, the United States defeated Mexico in a bloody war that brought vast territories under occupation and destroyed the delicate balance between slave and free states. Some people predicted the worst. "The United States will conquer Mexico," claimed Ralph Waldo Emerson in 1846, "but it will be as the man swallows the arsenic which brings him down in turn. Mexico will poison us." Ulysses S. Grant went so far as to declare the Civil War divine punishment for the Mexican conflict.
Indeed, the Mexican War fueled an ongoing debate about how large the country should get. Canada, or parts of Canada, had been sought by eager expansionists virtually since the two parts of British North America went their separate ways in 1776; spreading the plantation economy to Mexico and beyond - the so-called purple dream - had long animated the Southern imagination. 
Even as the Civil War began, Mexico continued to fester and tempt interventionists. It announced in mid-July 1861 that it could not service its debts, having just ended its own civil war (called the War of the Reform), and so suspended payments to its European creditors. This was not unusual, but this time the country's creditors did more than reiterate demands for payment: the British, French and Spanish governments joined forces in October to compel Mexico to pay; by the end of the year the city of Vera Cruz was occupied. 
The British and the Spanish soon reversed course, but Napoleon III of France, in league with Mexican reactionaries, persevered: he sought nothing less than a new Catholic empire in the Western Hemisphere under his auspices (thence the term "Latin" America). French troops occupied Mexico City and installed a Hapsburg archduke, Maximilian, as emperor. He lasted until 1867 when, having lost the war against his opponents and even the backing of Napoleon, he was executed by a Mexican firing squad. 
Here, then, was a major challenge to Washington, an act of aggression in the Western Hemisphere by European countries and thus a direct violation of the Monroe Doctrine. Some in Abraham Lincoln's administration may have urged him to strike, to invade Mexico and push the Europeans out before they dug in. But Lincoln rejected any such advice. 
In part it was a matter of expediency; the Union had more pressing matters to its south to deal with. But it was also a resetting of the course of the American state. As Lincoln saw it, "older" powers like Britain, France and Russia could go on to see imperial archipelagos flourish, but "younger" states should opt for geographic and political consolidation and centralization at home. Lincoln thus rebuffed the idea of conquering and colonizing Canadians and Mexicans in favor of building a new nation to the Pacific. It's no surprise that Lincoln would prefer this path: as a Midwesterner, his mental map extended more horizontally than vertically - east to west rather than north to south. But first he had to stop the American South from going its own way.
Lincoln wasn't alone in prioritizing centralization. Giuseppe Garibaldi and his fellow campaigners for Italy's unification - which had just been proclaimed in March - would have understood this, as would nationalists (sometimes called "unitarios") elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere, notably in Argentina, Colombia and Canada, whose confederation debate got going at about the same time. As a matter of fact, Lincoln authorized a commission for Garibaldi in the Union Army. Garibaldi turned it down - evidently because freeing the slaves was not yet sufficiently high on the list of the Union's war aims - yet Lincoln's offer underscores the fellowship between America's war of unification and those taking place in other parts of the world. 
Perhaps no one was more in tune with Lincoln than Otto von Bismarck, the minister-president of Prussia. Beginning in 1862, Bismarck unified Germany, but he explicitly rejected the idea of a "Grosdeutschland," or "Greater Germany," incorporating Austria, in favor of a "kleindeutsche Losung," or "Little German Solution," that preferred centralization over maximum territorial expansion. This may have been one reason why, after the Civil War ended, Bismarck reportedly sounded out Washington on an alliance. It made sense: Europe's rising industrial and military power seeking common cause with an American counterpart that seemed destined for the same. 
Unifying states needed more than just will; they needed propitious events and conditions. In Germany's case, it was the Crimean War - triggered, incidentally, by Napoleon III, following his 1851 coup - that made unification possible by putting an end to the Anglo-Russian condominium underpinning the European, and therefore global, balance of power. In the United States it was the country's "free" security (provided in large measure by the British Navy) that allowed for its territorial expansion and consolidation. 
And so the old order gave way to a new, contested one on both sides of the Atlantic; unification would come in both places by force. If the Crimean War had set the stage for the wars of unification in Germany and Italy, and the Mexican War did so for the war of unification in the United States, then it's worth asking: if there had been no Crimean War, might there still have been an American Civil War? Probably so; civil wars by definition happen largely for internal reasons. But without the conflict in Europe, the American war would not have been the nationalist achievement of world-historical import, as Lincoln, Bismarck and later generations understood it. 
In other words, the Civil War - as significant as it is for American history - is even more important when viewed through a comparative, transatlantic lens. The fight for internal unification rather than expansion meant that never again would the United States seek to conquer and annex its neighbors. It would, along with Bismarck's Germany, be a new kind of state: centralized, rationalized and mobilized to dominate the coming century.

        
Up South
        
Killing Jeff Davis
        
Lincoln's Rhetorical Fireworks
        
Mr. Marsh's Italian Job
        
Missouri's War Within the War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); SLAVERY (78%); ARMED FORCES (50%) abraham lincoln; giuseppe garibaldi; Otto von Bismarck; the civil war; Bismarck, Otto von; Garibaldi, Giuseppe; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Politics and Government; Germany; Italy; Mexico; Disunion

PERSON: Bismarck, Otto von; Garibaldi, Giuseppe; Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%) Germany; Italy; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



83 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Covering the March, on Foot and in Handcuffs

BYLINE: NATASHA LENNARD


HIGHLIGHT: A view of the march across the Brooklyn Bridge, from the bridge's roadway to a bus filled with those arrested. 

 BODY:
#OccupyWallStreet I got let go. After hours on police bus. Most ppl still handcuffed on buses. Trying to find space for us in precinctsSun Oct 02 01:49:05 via Twitter for BlackBerryNatasha Lennard
natashalennard
There has been considerable speculation about how a march across the Brooklyn Bridge on Saturday ended up flowing onto the bridge's road and blocking two lanes of traffic - leading to the arrests of about 700 people.
As a reporter covering the march, conducted by the Occupy Wall Street protesters, I was in position to get a close view of some events on the bridge as the arrests began. But as one of those arrested, I was also well-positioned to describe what happened next, at least for a number of those detained. 
The march began at 3 p.m. Saturday, with approximately 2,000 people crammed in to Zuccotti Park, which has served as the Occupy Wall Street base camp since Sept. 17. As the protesters approached the bridge, I was near the front of the crowd on the roadway, sending a stream of updates to Twitter and to my editors at The New York Times and colleagues.
The Internet was filled with pointed suggestions that officers from the New York Police Department led protesters onto the road as a trap to perform mass arrests; indeed, some video footage seems to show officers leading protesters onto the "illegal" section of the bridge. From what I saw, however, a couple of dozen marchers made the decision to move off the sidewalk into the road at the bridge's entrance to chants of "off the sidewalks, into the streets."
This breakaway group quickly gained support of surrounding marchers, numbers of whom jumped over barricades on the sidewalk's edge to stream into the road, until hundreds of people eventually covered the passageway usually intended for a steady flow of traffic.
" 'Whose bridge? Our bridge!' the marchers chanted as they walked onto the Brooklyn Bridge. Two vehicle lanes occupied," I posted on Twitter at the the time. The mood was celebratory and confrontations with the police were not widely expected.
A thick police line stood in front of the march, but as protesters walked further onto the bridge, it seemed that our path to Brooklyn would not be impeded. Just a few feet before protesters hit the bridge's first famous Gothic-style archway, however, the police line held firm. At this point, although only a few rows of people away from the march's front, I could not hear any police orders. The crowd packed in tightly. Some people tried to sit down but there was little space; some tried to move back to the bridge's entrance, but from what I understood, it was now flanked by police officers, too. The march had been kettled with orange mesh netting. A few feet away from me, I saw two young children, no older than 8, clinging to their mother.
The initial arrests seemed random and aggressive. A handful of young men on the march's front line, were grabbed by white-shirted officers.
One young man was dragged along the ground. At this point, I thought mass arrests were unlikely. Within about 15 minutes, however, more blue-shirted members of the Police Department had arrived, carrying stacks of plastic handcuffs.
At this point, I put on Twitter the words of a female demonstrator standing near me. "They can't arrest us all, right?"
"They can't arrest us all, right?" Asks protester. I think they can.Sat Oct 01 20:44:50 via Twitter for BlackBerryNatasha Lennard
natashalennard
In response, I received a number of Twitter messages from people who had seen police vans and city buses taken over by the police, all lined up on the other other side of the bridge. They could indeed arrest us all, and they did.
One by one, people were systematically turned around, handcuffed and lined up along the bridge behind police lines as the drizzle in the air turned into cold rain. I was herded onto a New York City bus with those arrested at the same time.
Among our group - predominantly comprised of twenty-somethings - were college students from Wesleyan, travelers from California who had been camping in Zuccotti Park, unemployed young people and some who sat silently and kept their back stories to themselves. The blue-shirted police officers, each one assigned four or five arrestees, stood watch and made some small talk.
There seemed to be some confusion among the police about what to do with us. Our bus was redirected three times from precincts around Lower Manhattan and Midtown, trying to find space to hold and process those on board. One friend, who was taken into a police van, told me his cohort was sent from Crown Heights, Brooklyn, to One Police Plaza. He was not processed until 3 a.m.
Handcuffed and complaining of needing the bathroom, a number of people on my bus sang songs (a few too many Beatles songs) to pass the time and keep up spirits. We were kept on the bus for approximately three hours before being taken in to the Midtown North precinct at 54th Street and Ninth Avenue.
As a freelancer, I did not have an official police press pass. I was, however, fortunate enough to be the first to be processed from my bus, with only a disorderly conduct violation summons, in no small measure because of my editors' contacting Police Headquarters to ensure my swift release.

        
Police Gave Warnings at Bridge, Videos Show
        
For Some, Zuccotti Park Becomes a Must-See Attraction
        
Police Arrest More Than 700 Protesters on Brooklyn Bridge
        
Occupying, and Now Publishing, Too
        
Protests Stir Up Voices on the Web

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%) arrests; Brooklyn Bridge; Occupy Wall Street; Brooklyn; Crime & Public Safety; Manhattan; Police and Fire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



84 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: For Some, Zuccotti Park Becomes a Must-See Attraction

BYLINE: SARAH MASLIN NIR


HIGHLIGHT: A visit to Lower Manhattan would now not be complete for some tourists without seeing the Occupy Wall Street encampment. 

 BODY:
The first stop on Sharon Wheeler's trip to New York City last weekend wasKleinfeld Bridal, the wedding dress emporium, where her niece, Morgan Vaught, tried on gowns.
The second stop? Zuccotti Park in the financial district, which is where Ms. Wheeler stood just outside the park's confines with her sister and two nieces on Sunday, snapping photos of the Occupy Wall Street protesters who have camped out there for the past two weeks.
"We were looking for wedding gowns," Ms. Wheeler said, standing in front of a sea of sleeping bags and tarps and speaking over the thump of drum circles. "And I wanted to see this."
As the protest has grown in stature and size in recent days, it has drawn more than merely new recruits to Zuccotti Park. Tourists have also flocked here; some said they wanted to witness or take a photo of what they see as a moment in history; others lured to the site by the siren song of drum circles when en route to usual attractions like the World Trade Center site or Century 21.
Ms. Wheeler, who is from Connecticut, added the Occupy Wall Street protest site to her itinerary along with a tour of ground zero. She said she sympathizes with the demonstrators' frustration with economic inequality, and would share the photos she shot with friends back home to spread the word.
The tourists are easy to spot: a white-haired and immaculately groomed couple picking their way across a landscape littered with blue tarpaulins; a Spanish-speaking family puzzling over the meaning of placards on display.
Liliana Orellana, 13, translated slogans on signs displayed on the ground for her seven other Spanish-speaking family members.They were visiting from Bladensburg, Md., and had stumbled upon the park on their way to ground zero, Liliana said. They had only the barest idea of what the protest was about, she said, but snapped photos to record the experience anyway.
Bob Harvey, 56, and his husband Denis O'Doherty, 51, were on a planned vacation from Charleston, S.C., during which they rode the subway to St. Francis of Assisi church and saw the show "Billy Elliot." On Sunday, they headed to the encampment, a stop they had added to their travel plans when they heard about it several weeks ago.
"This was one of the top things on our list to come to see and to do," Mr. Harvey said. "To experience this and to join in with these people."
The wedding dress shoppers left with a copy of the protesters' self-published newspaper, "The Occupied Wall Street Journal." As she departed, Christine Vaught, the mother of the bride, pointed to a headline. It read, "How many times in life do you get to watch history unfold?"
"Twice," she said. "The '60s and now."

        
Park Gives Wall St. Protesters a Place to Call Home
        
80 Arrested as Financial District Protest Moves North
        
Covering the March, on Foot and in Handcuffs
        
Police Gave Warnings at Bridge, Videos Show
        
Police Arrest More Than 700 Protesters on Brooklyn Bridge

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); FAMILY (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%) Occupy Wall Street; Zuccotti Park; Dispatches; Manhattan; Parks and Recreation; People & Neighborhoods

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



85 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: The Yen And The Low-Inflation Trap

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Real rates are higher here than in America. 

 BODY:
I'm in Japan for a conference tomorrow. Here's how I expect it to go:
I've already had one very jet-lagged meeting, in which I was asked for thoughts on the strong yen, which is making Japanese manufacturers very unhappy. Here are some thoughts.
The key thing, I believe, is that real interest rates in the United States and other advanced countries are now significantly lower than in Japan. If you look at the Treasury real yields, the interest rate on US 5-years indexed to inflation is now around -.5, that's right, minus 0.5. In Japan the nominal rate is lower, but not zero even though markets are signaling that they expect continued deflation over the next 5 years. 
As I've tried to explain, that's because of the option value: short-term rates can go up but they can't go down. And the result is that Japan has a significantly positive real 5-year rate, around 0.7 percent.
So Japan, having allowed deflation to get embedded in expectations, ends up being just what it doesn't want to be: a magnet for capital fleeing low yields in the US and elsewhere.
That said, I would argue that the United States is already on the edge of its own low-inflation trap. Japan is us, a few years from now, but with less misery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFLATION (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



86 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: The Renminbi and US Manufacturing

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Yes, it matters. 

 BODY:
The Senate will be taking up Chinese currency this coming week. So I though I should offer a brief note about one of the arguments people make against focusing on Chinese currency manipulation -- namely, the claim that China doesn't really compete head to head with US manufacturing, so that a rise in the renminbi wouldn't help.
I'd argue that this is wrong on three levels.
First, the notion that there's no head-to-head competition is false. There have lately been quite a few stories about manufacturing moving back from China: the labor costs will always be much higher in America, but other advantages, especially logistical, can make even labor-intensive production worth doing at home.
Second, there are real effects on the US if production moves, say, from China to Mexico. To an important extent, global manufacturing is carried out by regional complexes -- an Asian complex centered on Japan and China in effect competes with a North American complex in which labor-intensive stuff is done in Mexico or Central America. So there's an indirect competitive effect.
Most important, however, is that you really need to think of this as a global adding-up issue. If China and other currency manipulators run smaller trade surpluses, who will be the counterparties? Emerging economies that compete more directly with China than we do are by and large not in liquidity traps, and indeed are facing inflationary pressure. So any Chinese appreciation, while it directly tends to raise their net exports, will probably show up in matching appreciation in their currencies, setting in motion a series of domino effects that end up pushing the adjustment onto countries that are in liquidity traps, namely the US, Japan, and Europe.
The bottom line is that Chinese currency policy does indeed matter for US manufacturing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INFLATION (74%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



87 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Shifting the Suburban Paradigm

BYLINE: ALLISON ARIEFF


HIGHLIGHT: Transforming the single-family home by paying attention to what residents, and communities, really need. 

 BODY:
Is there anything made in America that's less innovative than the single-family home? While we obsess over the new in terms of what we keep our houses - the ever-increasing speed and functionality of our Smartphones, entertainment options built into refrigerators, sophisticated devices that monitor, analyze and report on our sleep cycles, even the superior technology of the running shoes we put on before heading out the flimsy fiberboard door - we're incredibly undemanding of the houses themselves. These continue to be built the same way they have for over a century, and usually not as well. Walls and windows are thin, materials cheap, design (and I use the term loosely) not well-considered. The building process is a protracted affair, taking far too long and creating embarrassing amounts of building waste (over 50 percent of all waste produced in the United States, in fact).
But the lack of innovation extends beyond the high-tech. Not so long ago homes were designed to make the most of their surrounding climate and terrain. Vernacular forms like the shotgun, in places like New Orleans, served a purpose that went far beyond aesthetics - they encouraged natural cooling by improving cross-ventilation. In Texas and New Mexico, thick adobe walls similarly kept heat in during the winter, and out during the summer. Houses were sited and windows placed to maximize or minimize sun exposure as needed. 
No longer. Today, it's essentially the same floor plan, sheetrock and construction that's used coast to coast. Glossy brochures with stock images of smiling families advertise "Spanish Gothic" or "Tuscan Villa," but what's really on offer is the same dumb box with a stage set of a facade tacked onto the front. The reasons behind the advertised vernacular styles have long since disappeared, their function surrendered to ornament.
It's not that the means don't exist for better building. There have been significant advances in homebuilding: smarter, safer, more sustainable materials that contribute to healthier and more energy-efficient structures (less expensive to heat and cool); precision building technologies that reduce construction time and waste; and more enlightened planning principles that recognize the social, economic and health benefits of building homes within denser, more walkable neighborhoods (important as with high levels of driving, which contributes to air pollution, and air pollution leads to morbidity and mortality).
Why? The reasons are complicated. Incentives received by commercial builders for doing the right thing are not extended to residential builders. But it's also true that the homebuilding industry isn't interested in risk or change, despite (in spite of?) dramatic slowdowns in residential construction, an anticipated surplus of thousands of homes, a market besieged by foreclosures and still-dropping home values. Even though there's increasing demand for more diverse housing - especially smaller, more energy-efficient homes and multifamily units in more walkable communities - too many homebuilders are inexplicably committed to the status quo. 
For many in the homebuilding industry, the current scenario is seen not as a call to action but as a temporary problem of the market (I found the same thing to be true in the world of shopping-center builders, who pine for - and fully expect the return of - a go-go consumer culture that is likely gone for good). To address current market realities, they don't look to innovation but rather to an easier fallback strategy: a new marketing plan. 
Five years ago, at the crest of the housing boom, I worked on a team consulting with a master planned-community developer who had asked us to help "revolutionize the way our homes are sold." The developer had little interest in the work we proposed - namely, to revolutionize the way their homes were designed and built. That company, like most of its competitors, laid off nearly half its work force the following year, and ended or delayed most of its future development projects. Devoting energy to how best to market its inventory hadn't been the most forward-thinking strategy for them then - nor would it be now. 
But that's what most developers continue to do. I read just last month about Fulton Homes, a homebuilding company that seems to be weathering the housing market better than its peers by selling homes the same way they'd sell clothing or computers, like any other retail product. In Builder online, Fulton's vice president of operations, Dennis Webb, said, "If the buyer wants it, give it to him." 
Fulton hasn't really changed anything about the homes they produce, regardless of what has happened over the last several years. They've simply hired more sales guys. No doubt you can "like" them on Facebook. In the short term, this has been a prudent move but what about next year? The year after that?
Then there's a company like Blu Homes, which has demonstrated a clear commitment to merging housing and high tech - to the tune of a $25 million investment, in fact. They recognized the tremendous inefficiencies in home-building and have developed 3D technology that allows for personal customization (clients can click a mouse to alter floor plans, choose green features and select finishes), as well as a proprietary building process and innovative steel-framing technology that allows their homes, as their Web site explains, "to be built to the highest aesthetic and environmental standards and be delivered quickly and economically nationwide."
But following a long line of V.C. types dabbling in housing, Blu has set its sights on a small slice of an already niche market - high-end modern prefab, which accounts for maybe half of a percent of the less than 5 percent of architect-designed homes in the country. Devoting this much R&D and software development to so few homes feels akin to installing a $250,000 solar array on a garden shed. Why not devote that energy to transforming cookie-cutter developer homes?
I like what Texas's Lake Flato is doing in this arena, combining vernacular style with precision building technology for their Porch House. Though the firm is building custom one-offs, they are also working on a number of larger projects - one, in Louisiana, involves building nine homes on two blocks of infill property in a historic Baton Rouge neighborhood. The concept is centered around making better use of backyards (less lawn, more sustainable garden) and using the traditional architecture vernacular for that area - the "shotgun" house. 
And even more promising in terms of scale is KB Home's announcement of the ZeroHouse 2.0, a greener version of the company's standard home, which is expected to eliminate monthly electricity charges for homeowners. Model homes featuring the ZeroHouse 2.0 package (it should be but isn't yet standard) open this month in Tampa, San Antonio and Austin. (Now, if KB would just start talking with the architects at Lake Flato.)
Even more prudently, a company like Blu could be directing all that R&D to multi-family housing, currently identified as the only bright spot in residential architecture and, to my mind, the only real path to truly sustainable housing. 
As architectural designer Aron Chang discusses in one of the more intellectually rigorous and thoughtful pieces on suburbia that I've read of late, which appeared in Places journal last month, it's time we focus on "suburbia's essential component" - the freestanding single-family house.
Chang writes, "The disconnection between the rising diversity of housing needs and the monotony of housing production speaks to the tenacity of the postwar American dream - the enduring allure of the detached house with front lawn and backyard patio - as well as to the profitability of catering to these aspirations."
Chang sees this moment - with millions of houses now in foreclosure, many deteriorating or abandoned - as one to seize, and I couldn't agree more. It is possible, he considers, that once the economy revives we will simply return to home-building-as-usual: 
But right now we have an opportunity to rethink suburban housing: to make it responsive not to dated demographics and wishful economics but rather to the actual needs of a diversifying and dynamic population - not only to the so-called traditional households but also to the growing ranks of those who prefer to rent rather than buy, who either can't afford or don't want a 2,000-square-foot-plus detached house, who are retired and living on fixed incomes and maybe driving less, who want granny or nanny flats, who want to pay less for utilities and reduce their carbon footprint, and so on. 
Housing can't be equated with high-tech: a home is, or was, a long-term investment not beholden to the dizzying speeds of change and innovation that drive say, Apple, which must continually reinvent and redefine its product to meet consumer demand. But housing is woefully behind the times, and now it needs to see opportunity in crisis, not wait it out by launching pop-up shops and interactive Web sites that empower consumers to such revolutionary things as customizing bathroom tile and kitchen backsplashes.
I don't care if we're talking Le Corbusier, Cape Cods or Corinthian columns, we can't make any progress in housing until we stop thinking about the home as decorative object and begin considering it as part of a larger whole. How does it work on the street? In the neighborhood? How is it served by transit? Is it adaptable, allowing for the housing of extended families or the hosting of an entrepreneurial endeavor? Can the owner build an accessory dwelling (a.k.a. granny flat) to do so? (Most zoning, homeowners' associations and CCRs don't allow for it currently.) What needs to happen to zoning, to financing, to our very notions of resale value to change the suburban condition - and by extension, the American Dream as we know it? 
We're beyond the point of a fresh coat of paint and a new sales pitch. If we're going to continue to hold on to the single-family home, we need to transform it. There is a demand for smaller, more energy-efficient homes in less car-dependent neighborhoods; all aspects of the industry, from designers to lenders to planners to consumers, should meet it. In this era of anti-government fervor, subsidizing the American Dream isn't an option; transforming it is the only one we've got.

        
The Worst Bathroom in New York
        
Living With Mies
        
Our Buildings, Ourselves
        
Rebirth of a City
        
When Less Was More

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FAMILY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) housing; single-family homes; Allison Arieff

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



88 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Why Bismarck Loved Lincoln

BYLINE: KENNETH WEISBRODE


HIGHLIGHT: What did the Civil War and the wars for German unification have in common? 

 BODY:
We usually think of the Civil War as a uniquely American event, a war unlike any other fought in the Western world during the 19th century. And of course that's true, strictly speaking: no other country saw itself split in two over slavery. But that's not the only way to think of the war. Put a different way, the Civil War was just one of several wars for national unification - including fighting in Italy and Germany - on both sides of the Atlantic during the mid-19th century. 
While countries like Britain and France were concentrating on expansion through colonization, the United States, Germany and others were focused inward, developing - intentionally or not - the centralizing powers that have defined the modern state ever since. What seems like a particularly American event was really part of a much larger, and much more significant, historical trend.
As a war of national unification, the Civil War represented a sharp historical break, a moment of crisis that would define the country's course for decades to come. Beforehand, the notions of national unification and expansion had been indivisible: just 15 years prior, the United States defeated Mexico in a bloody war that brought vast territories under occupation and destroyed the delicate balance between slave and free states. Some people predicted the worst. "The United States will conquer Mexico," claimed Ralph Waldo Emerson in 1846, "but it will be as the man swallows the arsenic which brings him down in turn. Mexico will poison us." Ulysses S. Grant went so far as to declare the Civil War divine punishment for the Mexican conflict.
Indeed, the Mexican War fueled an ongoing debate about how large the country should get. Canada, or parts of Canada, had been sought by eager expansionists virtually since the two parts of British North America went their separate ways in 1776; spreading the plantation economy to Mexico and beyond - the so-called purple dream - had long animated the Southern imagination. 
Even as the Civil War began, Mexico continued to fester and tempt interventionists. It announced in mid-July 1861 that it could not service its debts, having just ended its own civil war (called the War of the Reform), and so suspended payments to its European creditors. This was not unusual, but this time the country's creditors did more than reiterate demands for payment: the British, French and Spanish governments joined forces in October to compel Mexico to pay; by the end of the year the city of Vera Cruz was occupied. 
The British and the Spanish soon reversed course, but Napoleon III of France, in league with Mexican reactionaries, persevered: he sought nothing less than a new Catholic empire in the Western Hemisphere under his auspices (thence the term "Latin" America). French troops occupied Mexico City and installed a Hapsburg archduke, Maximilian, as emperor. He lasted until 1867 when, having lost the war against his opponents and even the backing of Napoleon, he was executed by a Mexican firing squad. 
Here, then, was a major challenge to Washington, an act of aggression in the Western Hemisphere by European countries and thus a direct violation of the Monroe Doctrine. Some in Abraham Lincoln's administration may have urged him to strike, to invade Mexico and push the Europeans out before they dug in. But Lincoln rejected any such advice. 
In part it was a matter of expediency; the Union had more pressing matters to its south to deal with. But it was also a resetting of the course of the American state. As Lincoln saw it, "older" powers like Britain, France and Russia could go on to see imperial archipelagos flourish, but "younger" states should opt for geographic and political consolidation and centralization at home. Lincoln thus rebuffed the idea of conquering and colonizing Canadians and Mexicans in favor of building a new nation to the Pacific. It's no surprise that Lincoln would prefer this path: as a Midwesterner, his mental map extended more horizontally than vertically - east to west rather than north to south. But first he had to stop the American South from going its own way.
Lincoln wasn't alone in prioritizing centralization. Giuseppe Garibaldi and his fellow campaigners for Italy's unification - which had just been proclaimed in March - would have understood this, as would nationalists (sometimes called "unitarios") elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere, notably in Argentina, Colombia and Canada, whose confederation debate got going at about the same time. As a matter of fact, Lincoln authorized a commission for Garibaldi in the Union Army. Garibaldi turned it down - evidently because freeing the slaves was not yet sufficiently high on the list of the Union's war aims - yet Lincoln's offer underscores the fellowship between America's war of unification and those taking place in other parts of the world. 
Perhaps no one was more in tune with Lincoln than Otto von Bismarck, the minister-president of Prussia. Beginning in 1862, Bismarck unified Germany, but he explicitly rejected the idea of a "Grosdeutschland," or "Greater Germany," incorporating Austria, in favor of a "kleindeutsche Losung," or "Little German Solution," that preferred centralization over maximum territorial expansion. This may have been one reason why, after the Civil War ended, Bismarck reportedly sounded out Washington on an alliance. It made sense: Europe's rising industrial and military power seeking common cause with an American counterpart that seemed destined for the same. 
Unifying states needed more than just will; they needed propitious events and conditions. In Germany's case, it was the Crimean War - triggered, incidentally, by Napoleon III, following his 1851 coup - that made unification possible by putting an end to the Anglo-Russian condominium underpinning the European, and therefore global, balance of power. In the United States it was the country's "free" security (provided in large measure by the British Navy) that allowed for its territorial expansion and consolidation. 
And so the old order gave way to a new, contested one on both sides of the Atlantic; unification would come in both places by force. If the Crimean War had set the stage for the wars of unification in Germany and Italy, and the Mexican War did so for the war of unification in the United States, then it's worth asking: if there had been no Crimean War, might there still have been an American Civil War? Probably so; civil wars by definition happen largely for internal reasons. But without the conflict in Europe, the American war would not have been the nationalist achievement of world-historical import, as Lincoln, Bismarck and later generations understood it. 
In other words, the Civil War - as significant as it is for American history - is even more important when viewed through a comparative, transatlantic lens. The fight for internal unification rather than expansion meant that never again would the United States seek to conquer and annex its neighbors. It would, along with Bismarck's Germany, be a new kind of state: centralized, rationalized and mobilized to dominate the coming century.

        
Up South
        
Killing Jeff Davis
        
Lincoln's Rhetorical Fireworks
        
Mr. Marsh's Italian Job
        
Missouri's War Within the War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); SLAVERY (78%); ARMED FORCES (50%) abraham lincoln; giuseppe garibaldi; Otto von Bismarck; the civil war; Bismarck, Otto von; Garibaldi, Giuseppe; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Politics and Government; Germany; Italy; Mexico; Disunion

PERSON: Bismarck, Otto von; Garibaldi, Giuseppe; Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%) Germany; Italy; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



89 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: New Survey Projects Higher Employee Health Premiums

BYLINE: BRUCE JAPSEN


HIGHLIGHT: Another survey of major employers shows that workers may shoulder an even larger burden of health care premiums in 2012. 

 BODY:
Companies next year will push more health care costs onto their workers, who may see an increase of nearly 11 percent in what they have deducted from their paychecks for health insurance, according to a new annual study by Aon Hewitt, a large Chicago benefits consultancy.
As companies struggle to control costs in a tough economy, the 2012 annual employee premiums are expected to jump on average 10.6 percent, to $2,306. That figure has doubled since 2005, when workers at larger companies paid on average $1,192 annually per employee and paid about 17 percent of the company's costs, according to Aon Hewitt data.
The employee share projected for next year is a contribution of 22 percent of the $10,475 employer cost of the health plan. This year, workers are paying 21.3 percent of the total cost, or $2,084 of the $9,792 total company-paid premium.
 "The reality is that employers, particularly in this economy, are doing everything they can to get net company cost levels that they can budget for and afford," said Jim Winkler, a managing principal with Aon Hewitt, a unit of Aon Corp. "Employers are shifting costs to employees to be able to afford to offer benefits."
The per-employee cost figures are the company-paid premiums of the average worker. A single worker with no dependents or a spouse might pay less. A worker with dependents might pay more. Less than a week ago, the Kaiser Family Foundation released its annual survey of big and small employers, showing a 9 percent increase in 2011 premiums for employer-sponsored insurance. 
The survey comes at the peak of so-called open enrollment season, which generally runs through mid-November, when companies disclose to workers their benefit options for the following year. Obama administration officials have asserted that the new federal health care law will help to contain costs in coming years. And other studies, like a preliminary one by Mercer, have shown a more moderate increase -- around 5 to 7 percent -- expected for next year. 
Analysts attribute health care cost increases to employment trends that have left young adults unemployed at nearly double the rate of older Americans. That means fewer healthier workers are paying premiums while not using medical care services as much as older workers.
"Claims that tend to occur are from relatively unhealthy people with heart disease, diabetes and the ever-challenging issues of obesity, making interactions with the health care system more expensive," Mr. Winkler said. "Companies are not hiring 22-year-olds who are healthy to offset the costs of the 58-year-old with diabetes and heart disease."
When workers do use the system, they are going to pay more out of pocket as well. Employers, who continue to create benefit plans with higher deductibles and copayments, are leaving workers with out-of-pocket costs that are projected to jump 13 percent to $2,275 in 2012, from $2,007 this year.
Aon Hewitt's data comes from a database of about 350 large American employers that spend more than $52 billion annually on health care benefits for some 14.4 million employees and their dependents. The database includes large and midsize employers with more than 1,000 workers and in some cases, hundreds of thousands of workers.
Companies say they are trying to reward employees for healthier lifestyles in hopes of tempering the rise in health care costs, but they aren't there yet.
"If we played our cards right, I don't think we should need to cost-shift," said Andrew Webber, president and chief executive officer of the National Business Coalition on Health, which includes some of the nation's biggest employers as members.
Employers need to provide stronger incentives for workers to use primary medical care and preventive health care services.
"I don't think employers are doing their jobs," Mr. Webber added. "We should be getting aggressive. They need to sign up to fill out the health risk assessment and if you are chronically ill, you will have to automatically enroll in a disease management program."

        
The Price We Pay for Medical Care
        
Mercer Issues Employer Survey on Health Coverage
        
Comparing Hospitals and Doctors
        
If It Walks Like an Insurer ...
        
Big Tobacco Wins Missouri Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); TRENDS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); OBESITY (73%); DIABETES (63%) Aon Hewitt; employer-sponsored premiums; health care; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Aon Corp; Aon Corp|AON|NYSE; health care law; Health Insurers

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (92%); AON PLC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Aon Corp

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (68%) Aon Corp; AON; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (68%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



90 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: New Survey Projects Higher Employee Health Premiums

BYLINE: BRUCE JAPSEN


HIGHLIGHT: Another survey of major employers shows that workers may shoulder an even larger burden of health care premiums in 2012. 

 BODY:
Companies next year will push more health care costs onto their workers, who may see an increase of nearly 11 percent in what they have deducted from their paychecks for health insurance, according to a new annual study by Aon Hewitt, a large Chicago benefits consultancy.
As companies struggle to control costs in a tough economy, the 2012 annual employee premiums are expected to jump on average 10.6 percent, to $2,306. That figure has doubled since 2005, when workers at larger companies paid on average $1,192 annually per employee and paid about 17 percent of the company's costs, according to Aon Hewitt data.
The employee share projected for next year is a contribution of 22 percent of the $10,475 employer cost of the health plan. This year, workers are paying 21.3 percent of the total cost, or $2,084 of the $9,792 total company-paid premium.
 "The reality is that employers, particularly in this economy, are doing everything they can to get net company cost levels that they can budget for and afford," said Jim Winkler, a managing principal with Aon Hewitt, a unit of Aon Corp. "Employers are shifting costs to employees to be able to afford to offer benefits."
The per-employee cost figures are the company-paid premiums of the average worker. A single worker with no dependents or a spouse might pay less. A worker with dependents might pay more. Less than a week ago, the Kaiser Family Foundation released its annual survey of big and small employers, showing a 9 percent increase in 2011 premiums for employer-sponsored insurance. 
The survey comes at the peak of so-called open enrollment season, which generally runs through mid-November, when companies disclose to workers their benefit options for the following year. Obama administration officials have asserted that the new federal health care law will help to contain costs in coming years. And other studies, like a preliminary one by Mercer, have shown a more moderate increase -- around 5 to 7 percent -- expected for next year. 
Analysts attribute health care cost increases to employment trends that have left young adults unemployed at nearly double the rate of older Americans. That means fewer healthier workers are paying premiums while not using medical care services as much as older workers.
"Claims that tend to occur are from relatively unhealthy people with heart disease, diabetes and the ever-challenging issues of obesity, making interactions with the health care system more expensive," Mr. Winkler said. "Companies are not hiring 22-year-olds who are healthy to offset the costs of the 58-year-old with diabetes and heart disease."
When workers do use the system, they are going to pay more out of pocket as well. Employers, who continue to create benefit plans with higher deductibles and copayments, are leaving workers with out-of-pocket costs that are projected to jump 13 percent to $2,275 in 2012, from $2,007 this year.
Aon Hewitt's data comes from a database of about 350 large American employers that spend more than $52 billion annually on health care benefits for some 14.4 million employees and their dependents. The database includes large and midsize employers with more than 1,000 workers and in some cases, hundreds of thousands of workers.
Companies say they are trying to reward employees for healthier lifestyles in hopes of tempering the rise in health care costs, but they aren't there yet.
"If we played our cards right, I don't think we should need to cost-shift," said Andrew Webber, president and chief executive officer of the National Business Coalition on Health, which includes some of the nation's biggest employers as members.
Employers need to provide stronger incentives for workers to use primary medical care and preventive health care services.
"I don't think employers are doing their jobs," Mr. Webber added. "We should be getting aggressive. They need to sign up to fill out the health risk assessment and if you are chronically ill, you will have to automatically enroll in a disease management program."

        
The Price We Pay for Medical Care
        
Mercer Issues Employer Survey on Health Coverage
        
Comparing Hospitals and Doctors
        
If It Walks Like an Insurer ...
        
Big Tobacco Wins Missouri Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); TRENDS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); OBESITY (73%); DIABETES (63%) Aon Hewitt; employer-sponsored premiums; health care; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Aon Corp; Aon Corp|AON|NYSE; health care law; Health Insurers

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (92%); AON PLC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Aon Corp

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (68%) Aon Corp; AON; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (68%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



91 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Others Go, but Buffett Stays on President's Side

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: While many on Wall Street are withholding support from President Obama for now, Warren E. Buffett has agreed to headline two fund-raisers. 

 BODY:
When it comes to business, everyone on Wall Street wants a piece ofWarren E. Buffett. His presidential politics, however, appear to be another matter altogether.
On Friday evening, Mr. Buffett was the host of a fund-raiser forPresident Obama at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan, typically a magnet for the who's who of finance. Democrats had bet that the star power of one of the world's richest men would draw an overflow crowd of Wall Street's elite for an affair that ran $10,000 a plate, or $35,800 for one-on-one time with Mr. Buffett.
Yet organizers had trouble drawing the biggest guns of finance. The president's campaign reserved space for 130 guests but only 116 (including Democratic staff members) attended, according to people with knowledge of the matter but not authorized to speak on the record. And there were few marquee names on the guest list. James Chanos, the hedge fund executive, was among the better known of those who attended.
The event - which included on the menu some of Mr. Buffett's favorites, like Cherry Coke and Dairy Queen ice cream - was considered a sell-out success by the Obama campaign. It easily raised more than $1.5 million for the campaign and the Democratic National Committee.
Still, the turnout, strong but less than overwhelming, reflected the president's broader struggles in attracting big-name support from those on Wall Street, whom he referred to as "fat cat bankers" in 2009. One person who attended described the atmosphere as subdued and said the event seemed to attract more Buffett followers than Obama supporters.
Mr. Buffett, a major investor in many of the nation's biggest banks, remains undeterred. As others in business have moved to distance themselves from Mr. Obama, Mr. Buffett has found himself in a lonely role as the president's ambassador among the moneyed set. He is endorsing not just Mr. Obama but also a policy like the so-called Buffett rule, which would increase taxes on the rich, as well as the view that America is exiting, not re-entering, a recession.
"I have always had people disagree with me on politics," Mr. Buffett said in an interview. "You can go through life and just basically opt out of that field. I don't blame anyone particularly, but I don't want to do that. If I have views I will talk about them."
Mr. Buffett's more public embrace of Mr. Obama has cast a spotlight on this unlikely alliance between the Omaha-born son of a stockbroker turned Republican congressman and Mr. Obama, the Harvard-educated lawyer who forged his political career in Chicago.
Mr. Buffett said he first met Mr. Obama roughly six years ago, at a lunch arranged by the billionaire's daughter, Susie. The pair broke bread at Kiewit Plaza in Omaha, where Mr. Buffett's company, Berkshire Hathaway, is situated. At the time, Mr. Obama was only months into his freshman term in the Senate.
Mr. Buffett spotted a rising star, prophetically telling The Chicago Tribune in 2005 that Mr. Obama "has as much potential as anyone I've seen to have an important impact over his lifetime on the course that America takes."
Another presidential hopeful,Hillary Rodham Clinton, also impressed Mr. Buffett. "I didn't think both of them would run," he recalled in the interview with The New York Times. During the contentious 2008 campaign, he lent his name - and wallet - to both candidates. In 2007, he headlined an event for Ms. Clinton in New York and another for Mr. Obama in Omaha.
As president, Mr. Obama has been known to tap Mr. Buffett for advice on the economy. In July 2010, during a meeting at the White House, Mr. Buffett even got a new tie. Mr. Buffett said he wore a tie that "looked like it had gone through a lawn mower." Mr. Obama, noticing its condition, gave Mr. Buffett a new tie, replete with presidential seals.
A few weeks later, Mr. Buffett was back at the White House for a meeting that was also attended byBill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft and an old friend of Mr. Buffett. Mr. Obama was quick to compliment Mr. Buffett, saying he was "looking sharper," according to Mr. Buffett. Mr. Buffett laughed and pointed to Mr. Gates, who was wearing the old tie. Mr. Obama went and got a new tie with presidential seals on it for Mr. Gates. "This tie is very useful," Mr. Buffett said of the frayed tie he now keeps in reserve in his closet for friends who may be visiting the White House.
This summer, Mr. Obama called Mr. Buffett from his vacation on Martha's Vineyard to discuss ways to spur the economy. And after Mr. Buffett wrote an Op-Ed article for The New York Times, saying that politicians should stop "coddling" the "mega-rich," the White House introduced plans to raise taxes for the wealthy.
Still, Mr. Buffett cautions against reading too much into the relationship. "We are not at all close," he said. He estimates he has talked to Mr. Obama one-on-one just a handful of times, and no call has lasted more than about eight minutes. Mr. Buffett does not remember ever making a call to Mr. Obama. And Mr. Buffett does not personally solicit donations for the re-election campaign.
Mr. Buffett did agree to headline two fund-raisers for the president. The next one is scheduled for late October at the Chicago-area home of Byron Trott, a former Goldman Sachs executive known as "Buffett's favorite banker."
The fund-raisers are the Obama campaign's latest efforts to restore the president's relationship with Wall Street - once a heavy-hitting donor base. Earlier this year, Mr. Obama dined with financial executives at the opulent Upper East Side restaurant Daniel. The president also counts several bankers among his friends and fund-raisers, including Robert Wolf, the president of UBS's investment bank.
But the campaign has received a tepid response from other deep-pocketed donors on Wall Street, some of whom have shunned the president's push for regulation and his talk about lavish bonuses. The nation's biggest banks, which cut many large checks for Mr. Obama's 2008 run, are mainly on the sidelines for now.
"In the last election, people were tripping over themselves to get on the Obama bandwagon," said Michael J. Driscoll, a former senior trader at the Wall Street firm Bear Stearns who now teaches at Adelphi University. "Things have changed; Wall Street is not happy being under attack by the administration."
Republican candidates hope to lure away Wall Street's money. Last week, the Republican contenderMitt Romney, a former private equity executive, met privately with JPMorgan Chase's chief,Jamie Dimon, once a big-name supporter of Mr. Obama. Mr. Dimon has not yet endorsed any candidate. Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge fund manager who previously donated to Mr. Obama, has shifted allegiance to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Buffett said he was not surprised that Wall Street's sentiment had shifted so much against the president. "People need to face up to the country's problems. Once what you start pointing and explaining what your part is in it, you start losing a few people," he said, laughing.
Still, he says he believes Mr. Obama will win the next election, and may even get some help from an improving economy, an idea that goes against the view of many in America.
"We are coming out of this one, I am virtually certain," Mr. Buffett said. "I see figures on 70-some companies daily. I have a lot of information coming in and basically everything to do with home construction is as bad as it has ever been, and everything else is getting better."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); LAWYERS (60%); TAX INCREASES (50%) Buffett, Warren E; Obama, Barack; Banking and Financial Institutions; Campaign Finance; High Net Worth Individuals; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; 2012 Elections; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street; Wealth

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Buffett, Warren E; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



92 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Borrows From Bush '04 Playbook

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: In key battlegrounds, the president's strategists intend to use abortion, gay rights, the environment and successes against Al Qaeda to counter economic attacks. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The last time an incumbent president faced re-election, George W. Bush exploited social and national security issues to offset his economic vulnerabilities.
Over the next year, President Obama will try the same thing.
Circumstances have changed drastically since 2004. America's economic woes stand to dominate the 2012 dialogue no matter what - probably to Mr. Obama's detriment.
Yet in important electoral battlegrounds, Mr. Obama's strategists intend to use abortion, gay rights, the environment and successes in the fight against Al Qaeda to counter economic attacks and drive a wedge between Republicans and swing voters.
The Democratic shift from defense to offense on those issues stems from evolving public attitudes, intensifying Republican conservatism and the raid that killed
Osama bin Laden on Mr. Obama's orders. The perilous state of the American economy undercuts the president's assertions that he prevented something worse.
The result: over the weekend, Mr. Obama accused his Republican challengers of displaying a "kind of smallness" by not denouncing a debate audience that booed a gay soldier. He used the incident to question their readiness to become commander in chief.
Days earlier at a California fund-raiser, Mr. Obama cast his re-election bid as an appeal to "people of like mind, people who believe in a big and generous and a tolerant and ambitious and fact-based America."
Those "people of like mind" include the affluent, college-educated residents of suburbs around Denver, Philadelphia, Raleigh-Durham, Orlando, Boston and Washington - the epicenters of Mr. Obama's fight for Colorado, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Florida, New Hampshire and Virginia.
The 'Monied' Suburbs
In his 2008 victory, Mr. Obama broke through among several important voter groups. Exit polls showed that he carried suburbanites, college graduates and those earning more than $200,000.
Mr. Obama won handily in areas that the research organization Patchwork Nation calls "Monied 'Burbs." Residents of these high-income suburbs, which add up to roughly a quarter of the United States population, tend to be less religious and more tolerant of homosexuality and abortion rights, said Dante Chinni, Patchwork Nation's director.
They narrowly backed Republicans in the 2010 House elections. Their disappointment over the economy cloud Mr. Obama's 2012 re-election prospects.
But their distance from the Republican right on social issues gives Mr. Obama a tool for fighting back.
"The question is whether it's possible to pop those issues when the economy is this bad," said Jim Jordan, a campaign manager for Senator John Kerry's bid for the White House in 2004. "The answer is maybe."
Recent evidence is mixed.
In Colorado, the incumbent Democratic senator, Michael Bennet, survived the 2010 Republican wave after he "shifted a chunk of the conversation off the economic and onto social issues," said Laura Chapin, a Democratic strategist in Denver. Mr. Obama's strategists view that victory as an object lesson.
It didn't work in the 2009 race for governor of Virginia. Democrats tried to cast the Republican nominee, Bob McDonnell, as an extremist on social issues; Mr. McDonnell, now governor, focused relentlessly on the economy.
Truce Proposed
That's why Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a Republican, has called for "a truce" on social issues. With Mr. Obama faring so poorly on the economy, the topics that rallied the conservative base for Mr. Bush now carry more costs than benefits.
Nor can Republicans capitalize on national security as they did in 2004. No leading Republican candidate has foreign policy experience. Mr. Obama's successes in targeting Al Qaeda, from the Bin Laden raid to the killing of Anwar al-Awlaki on Friday, give him potent tools for defusing a traditional Democratic vulnerability.
Mr. Obama's success in using social issues to attract affluent suburbanites will depend significantly on the outcome of Republican primaries. Former Gov.
Mitt Romney of Massachusetts now opposes abortion rights and backs a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage.
But Mr. Romney, a former finance executive, has focused overwhelmingly on the economy. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who is reconsidering whether to join the race, has defined himself politically through his drive to cut government spending.
The emphatic social conservatism of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who opened his campaign soon after addressing a "Call to Prayer" Christian gathering in Houston, would provide a bigger target. "You can't have a big religious rally and not scare the hell out of suburban Philadelphia," said Kim Alfano, a Republican consultant who advises Mr. Daniels.
Mr. Perry's insistence that man-made climate change remains unproved, mocked by Mr. Obama at that California fund-raiser, provides another opening among college-educated swing voters. Jill Hanauer, who directs the Democratic consultancy Project New West, said the issue could weaken Republicans' economic message by making the party appear to be "looking backwards" in an era of global competition.
Republicans have their own strong economic arguments for upscale suburbanites, including Mr. Obama's proposals to raise taxes on households earning more than $250,000. Those will echo Democrats' 2004 warnings to working-class voters - that social issues obscured how Mr. Bush had hurt their pocketbooks.

        
Obama Shows Emotion, With Political Consequences
        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
McDonnell Says a Governor Should Replace Obama
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ABORTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%) barack obama; Democrats; economy; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JIM JORDAN (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (69%); DURHAM, NC, USA (54%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



93 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Clear Channel Names Pittman as Its Chief

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and BEN SISARIO


HIGHLIGHT: Robert W. Pittman, the chairman of Clear Channel's media and entertainment business, will also replace Mark Mays as executive chairman. 

 BODY:
WhenRobert W. Pittman first joined Clear Channel Communications last November as the chairman of its media and entertainment business, he told the company that he was not interested in becoming chief executive.
Eleven months later, he has changed his mind.
Clear Channel announced on Sunday that it had named Mr. Pittman its new chief executive and executive chairman, ending a search to find a replacement for Mark P. Mays, a scion of the company's founding family.
"It's very rare that you get such a test drive," Mr. Pittman said in a telephone interview on Saturday. "This is one of those companies where the closer you looked, the better it seemed."
It is the latest leadership post for Mr. Pittman, who helped create MTV and later became a senior executive at AOL.
But leading Clear Channel, which is both the nation's biggest radio station operator and an outdoor advertising giant, at a time when the company is under pressure from digital rivals and an uncertain economic outlook will be a new test for Mr. Pittman.
"The biggest challenge anyone faces is the macroeconomic picture," Mr. Pittman said. "Anyone who does any business with the consumer and sells advertising worries about that."
Clear Channel, which was taken over three years ago by the private equity firms Bain Capital and THL Partners, is also laboring under $19.9 billion in long-term debt, giving it little room for error.
The company has shown some improvement of late. Its second-quarter revenue rose 7.6 percent over the same time last year, to $1.6 billion. And its net loss during the same time has shrunk 38 percent, to $53.2 million.
Radio revenue for that time period rose about 4 percent, to $780.9 million.
"He has already generated a renewed sense of confidence and direction not only at Clear Channel, but across the entire radio and media landscape," Scott M. Sperling, a co-president of THL, said in a statement.
Mr. Pittman, 57, first joined last year after investing $5 million of his own money in Clear Channel. He became a senior adviser to the company's sprawling radio business, with a special interest in overseeing the expansion of its digital strategy.
Chief among his initiatives was building out iHeartRadio, a Facebook-linked service that made Clear Channel's 850 radio stations available both online and in smartphones. With iHeartRadio, the company sought to push back against the rise of Pandora Media and other Internet radio services.
Despite competition from Internet and satellite, terrestrial broadcast radio remains a strong draw for listeners and commuters. Last week Arbitron, the industry's standard ratings service, said that 241.4 million people 12 or older listened to the radio each week in the United States, an increase of 1.7 million from a year ago.
Last month, Clear Channel presented its first iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas, a two-day concert withLady Gaga, Coldplay, the Black Eyed Peas,Jay-Z and many others, to publicize its app and demonstrate to advertisers the strength of its reach.
Mr. Pittman said that iHeartRadio would become the central consumer brand for Clear Channel's stations. "That has been a real win for us," he said.
Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research, added that Clear Channel had been surprisingly successful in competing against the latest generation of Internet start-ups.
"IHeartRadio illustrates how Pandora is more of a feature versus a stand-alone business, with iHeartRadio being able to combine the appeal of terrestrial radio with the functionality of customizable Internet radio," he wrote in an e-mail.
Clear Channel has also formed partnerships with other companies, including a forthcoming music service on Microsoft's Xbox Live and streaming the music for Zynga's collaboration with Lady Gaga.
It has also made some small acquisitions, including Thumbplay, a digital music subscription service that was folded into iHeartRadio. Mr. Pittman said that Clear Channel might strike more deals in the future, but that he would focus in large part on organic growth.
Mr. Pittman will also oversee Clear Channel's outdoor advertising business, which owns or operates some 190,000 displays in North America. It also has operations in nearly 30 countries in Asia, Australia and Europe. That business has fared well, reporting a 12 percent rise in second-quarter revenue from last year, to $789.2 million.
Mr. Pittman, who entered the media business as a 15-year-old radio announcer in Brookhaven, Miss., helped create MTV in 1981 and later worked at Time Warner and Century 21 before joining AOL in 1996. He became the chief operating officer of the newly merged AOL Time Warner in 2001, but left the next year.
Since then, he has become a venture capitalist, co-founding the Pilot Group in 2002. The firm was an early investor in Zynga, the online game titan, and it sold DailyCandy to Comcast three years ago for $125 million.

        
A Media Veteran Joins Clear Channel
        
Clear Channel Chief Executive Stepping Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (73%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); SMARTPHONES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Bain Capital; Clear Channel Communications; Robert W. Pittman; THL Partners; Pittman, Robert W; Appointments and Executive Changes; Radio; Clear Channel Communications Inc; Media; Private Equity; Revolving Door

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Clear Channel Communications Inc

TICKER: P (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MARK P MAYS (73%) Pittman, Robert W

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



94 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS This week's data will include the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for September and construction spending for August (Monday); factory orders for August (Tuesday); ADP employment for September and the I.S.M. nonmanufacturing index for September (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for September, wholesale trade for August and consumer credit for August (Friday). 
EARNINGS Companies reporting results include Yum Brands (Tuesday); Costco Wholesale and Monsanto (Wednesday); and Constellation Brands (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Automakers will report their North American sales for September (Monday). Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, will testify before the Joint Economic Committee; a House financial services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the Federal Reserve; and a House financial services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the World Bank and multilateral development banks' authorization (Tuesday). A House energy and commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about protecting children's privacy in an electronic world; a Senate banking subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the economic implications of the federal budget deficit (Wednesday). Retailers will report their same-store sales for September (Thursday). A House financial services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the Obama administration's response to the housing crisis, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, above, will testify before the Senate Banking Committee about the Financial Stability Oversight Council's annual report (Thursday).
IN EUROPE Euro zone finance ministers will meet in Luxembourg (Monday and Tuesday). The European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue decisions on interest rates (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); BUDGETS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (57%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

TICKER: STZ (NYSE) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (57%); COST (NASDAQ) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (57%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (57%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (84%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



95 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Economics Crash Course For New Military Chief

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After his Senate confirmation as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey knew he had some catching up to do before being sworn in last Friday as the nation's highest-ranking officer and the principal military adviser to the president and secretary of defense.
The gap in his training was not the geopolitics of the Middle East, a perpetual source of American security concerns. Even before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, General Dempsey was among the few senior officers who had spent significant time immersed in Muslim culture, having served for several years as an adviser to Saudi Arabia's security forces. And since 9/11, he has had two tours in Iraq and has been the acting commander of American forces across the Middle East and Central Asia. 
He also did not need to study how to hold together a military distressed by the longest period of nonstop war ever sustained by an all-volunteer force. General Dempsey was a chief architect of the blueprints on maintaining and rebuilding the Army when he ran its Training and Doctrine Command before his elevation to Army chief of staff.
Instead, General Dempsey said in an interview, he realized he needed a better understanding of the economy, which seemed likely to define his tenure in the way that counterterrorism, counterinsurgency and combat preoccupied his predecessors over the past decade. During General Dempsey's term, a significant challenge will be how best to care for the military and protect the United States' national security interests with drastically fewer Defense Department dollars.
So he traveled to his alma mater, West Point, entered the social sciences department and asked the professors to educate him about economics.
''I have to confess, I paid no attention to this as a cadet and have done nothing to increase my awareness of economic issues between age 22 and 59,'' he said. ''And here I am, back as the prodigal son, saying, 'I should have paid attention.' The economic factors exist. They will inform my tenure as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. To use the old cliche: that is what it is.''
General Dempsey acknowledged an emerging truth about the size of the American military during the coming years: ''I do think that we will be smaller,'' he said. ''But there are things we've learned over the last 10 years, capabilities that didn't exist 10 years ago that exist today that can, for example, offset and mitigate the risk of a somewhat smaller conventional or traditional force.''
It is up to his two bosses, President Obama and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, to decide with Congress how much money can be committed to national security and on the current missions that are no longer affordable.
General Dempsey said his task was ''to articulate the risk that we face at certain levels of resourcing,'' and he pledged to do that without ''threat inflation or fear tactics.''
General Dempsey has filtered those challenges through his 37 years in uniform. But he articulates them in terms that are not surprising coming from one of the few four-star officers with an advanced degree in humanities, in this case a master's in English from Duke University.
He said he believes that in the second decade after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, the military is confronting ''a strategic inflection point, where the institution fundamentally re-examines itself.''
It is the third such inflection point in his career.
The first was after the war in Vietnam, when the draft ended, challenging the military to build an all-volunteer force and keep a edge in quality even as it shrank significantly. The second was after the Persian Gulf war of 1991, when the military had to reassess and defend its role in a post-Soviet world, and again shrank significantly.
''And then along comes the threat of Al Qaeda and its associated movements, global networks that threaten us,'' he said. ''And we go through this period in the first decade of the 21st century and become extraordinarily good at counterterrorism, counterinsurgency, stability operations and building partner capacity.
''Now, I think we are at another inflection point, frankly, and what that inflection point will involve is a re-examination of the roles, missions, core competencies of the joint force,'' he said. ''With each inflection point, there is a complication. The complication this time is our economic stature as a nation.''
Asked to reflect on the military axiom that ''when the money is gone, you have to think smarter,'' General Dempsey paused and replied, ''Inshalla,'' the Arabic word for ''God willing.''
He has already made one change to the operations of the military's joint staff, resurrecting the position of senior enlisted adviser to the chairman, which has been vacant since 2008. He gave the post to Sgt. Maj. Bryan Battaglia of the Marine Corps, a veteran of the Iraq war with a Purple Heart, who will focus on the development of enlisted personnel and noncommissioned officers across the military.
General Dempsey grew up in Bayonne, N.J. His father was an oil refinery worker who held a second job as a mail carrier, and his mother stocked shelves at a local department store. He married his high school sweetheart, Deanie, and they have three children, Christopher, Megan and Caitlin. All three have served in the Army.
In lighter moments, General Dempsey has been known to reveal a fine Irish tenor, channeling his inner American songbook on such standards as ''New York, New York.''
On that topic, he shares an interest with the new secretary of defense, Mr. Panetta, who has kept secret that he is a devoted pianist. Mr. Panetta says he is as proud of his Italian-American roots as General Dempsey is of his Irish-American upbringing.
''He is a soldier's soldier,'' Mr. Panetta said of the new chairman. ''It's nice to have somebody who is a straight shooter because, frankly, the challenges are too damn tough to begin with if you're dealing with somebody who doesn't tell it like it is.''
Over dinner with General Dempsey and in other conversations, Mr. Panetta said he gained an important insight.
''He's a big Sinatra fan,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''He likes to belt out favorite Sinatra tunes. I basically told him, though, that, 'I'm sorry, but a guy from an Irish background is not going to be a member of Rat Pack.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Martin E. Dempsey at his swearing-in ceremony on Friday. He said economic factors would define his tenure as Joint Chiefs chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); RANKINGS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); LEON E PANETTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



96 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Unofficial Visits Draw Concern, Not Scrutiny

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
The report last week that an assistant football coach at Tennessee, Willie Mack Garza, paid $1,500 for a top-rated tailback, Lache Seastrunk, and his mother to fly to an unofficial visit to Tennessee sent reverberations throughout college sports.
Just weeks after Southern California Coach Lane Kiffin, who was the coach at Tennessee when the transaction is said to have occurred, appeared to have escaped N.C.A.A. scrutiny from his tumultuous tenure as the Volunteers' coach, the Yahoo Sports report pulled him back into the N.C.A.A. cross hairs.
Perhaps more important, the report portrays Garza and the Tennessee staff flagrantly disobeying N.C.A.A. rules on unofficial visits. (An unofficial visit is one in which the prospect and his family must pay their way to campus.) Yahoo said Garza paid a third party the money for Seastrunk and his mother to make the trip in July 2009 using a MoneyGram, even providing the receipt.
Coaches, recruiting analysts and an N.C.A.A. official said in interviews that illegal payment for a prospect's unofficial visit was one of the most commonly manipulated N.C.A.A. rules. While the importance of unofficial visits has increased because of the speeded-up recruiting calendar with unofficial commitments, there is little scrutiny of how prospects and their families pay for the visits. 
''It seems to be a real concern,'' said Rachel Newman Baker, an N.C.A.A. managing director of enforcement, who said the N.C.A.A. had been studying the issue in both football and basketball. She added, ''As we've been doing our outreach and meeting with folks, it seems like this has been on top of the list.''
On an official recruiting visit, a prospect's travel, hotel and meals can be paid for by universities while the prospect visits campus, according to N.C.A.A. regulations. Those visits cannot be taken until the start of the prospect's senior year of high school.
There are so few perks allowed on an unofficial visit that a university cannot pick up a prospect at the airport or pay for a hotel stay. The N.C.A.A. rulebook has four pages on official visits and one and a half on unofficial visits.
''Behind the scenes in college basketball, people will tell you that the unofficial visit is one of the bigger problems facing recruiting right now,'' the ESPN basketball recruiting analyst Dave Telep said. ''It's a place where things can be easily manipulated by third parties. At the same time, I have no idea how you can fix it.''
The problem appears to be as pervasive in college football as it is in basketball. The former coach Urban Meyer said that in the later part of his six-year tenure at Florida, he heard about abuses elsewhere of the unofficial visit rule.
''I'd ask my assistants, 'Why is this kid not visiting us?' '' Meyer said. ''They'd say, 'Coach, we're not paying for his trip.' ''
According to Drew Cannon, a Duke student who does research for Telep, 51 of Telep's top 100 senior basketball prospects had already unofficially committed to universities by Sept. 1. Nearly all of the top 100 had made unofficial visits.
Brad Stevens, the Butler men's basketball coach, said that 90 percent of the official visits during his tenure had involved players who had already made commitments to the Bulldogs.
Because prospects cannot make official visits until the start of their senior year of high school, the official visit has become more of a ceremonial showcase of campus than a critical part of the recruiting calendar.
''It's totally changed, I would say, in the last five years,'' said Dan Dakich, a former college head coach and assistant who now coaches travel basketball and hosts an Indianapolis radio show. ''Kids are committing so much earlier, and parents totally understand the process. The people I deal with say, 'Can you help us get him on campus?' ''
And that is where problems can occur, especially in a time when unemployment, gas prices and airfares are high.
''I see guys flying across the country or regionally like it's a rock star tour,'' Telep said. ''Knowing what I know about some of those situations, I don't know the means of where this is coming from.''
Steve Donahue, the Boston College men's basketball coach, said: ''I think it's very prevalent. It's curious to me how all this gets done in such a speedy fashion if you're going to abide by the rules.''
Donahue is one of many coaches who favor an N.C.A.A. rule change that will be discussed this month by N.C.A.A. leadership that would allow universities to fly juniors to campus the spring before their senior year.
''Kids are making choices so quickly of who they can visit, they make the decision before you can even have a shot,'' Donahue said.
Telep said that one of the problems with unofficial visits is that their unofficial nature gave coaches an element of plausible deniability in knowing how the prospect got there and who paid for the trip.
Meyer, now an ESPN analyst, stressed that paying, directly or indirectly, for a prospect's visit is a significant breach of N.C.A.A. rules. ''That is a major violation,'' he said. ''That's not secondary.''
Newman Baker of the N.C.A.A. said she was skeptical of coaches who claim they have no idea how prospects paid their way to campus. ''The thought or concept that coaches don't really know what's going on isn't an accurate reflection of reality,'' she said. ''I'm not buying that.''
Newman Baker said that the N.C.A.A. had been looking at the problem for the last year as part of a broader focus on recruiting reforms. She said the problems with unofficial football and basketball visits appear different.
In football, she said, the unofficial visits appear to include packing a group of prospects in a van and touring universities. She said the N.C.A.A. had found in some cases that the operators of those tours, which include seven-on-seven teams, could be classified as boosters of an institution.
''What we're hearing and being told are that these individuals are being compensated for these caravan tours, driving multiple elite prospects, loading them up and taking them around,'' she said.
In basketball, Newman Baker said, it is more likely for individual players to fly directly to campus with ''a handler'' like a mentor or coach.
Dan Hawkins, a former Boise State and Colorado football coach, said the Yahoo report about violations like those alleged at Tennessee did not surprise him.
There need to be more specific and harsher penalties for such violations, said Hawkins, now an ESPN analyst.
''If you break rules in a blatant fashion, you need to be banned for life,'' he said. ''You're out of coaching, you're done. If there's illegal contact or a phone call, you lose a scholarship.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lane Kiffin, above, was the coach at Tennessee when an assistant is reported to have paid for an unofficial visit by Lache Seastrunk, right, a star tailback, and his mother. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WADE PAYNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JULIA ROBINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SALES PROSPECTING (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



97 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: A Concert, Nearly Canceled, Keeps a Rising Star Afloat

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

 BODY:
The beloved concert spot Bargemusic, moored near the Brooklyn Bridge in Dumbo, floats serenely, with a cozy wood-lined interior and a temperamental toilet. It is so improbable and distinctive that it seems a small miracle each time a recital there goes off successfully. 
Those successes have piled up. The barge hosts well over 200 concerts a year, featuring a fine mix of performers, including the occasional celebrity. On Friday Alisa Weilerstein, a fast-rising young cellist and a recent recipient of a MacArthur Foundation grant, played a program of Dvorak and Ives with her parents in their regular incarnation as the Weilerstein Trio.
Until just a few hours before the concert it seemed that it wouldn't happen at all, since the barge's perpetual miracles last week ran up against that most immovable of opponents: the city's fire code.
On Wednesday a representative of the barge's landlord, the New York City Economic Development Corporation, found a problem with the gangway leading from the emergency exit behind the stage that had long been considered inadequate. Fire Department officials cited Bargemusic over the issue and stopped public performances until the violation was fixed. Cancellations were initially announced through the weekend, but a scramble to get a replacement gangway installed and approved finished in time for Friday's concert. (Last Wednesday and Thursday's programs are being rescheduled.)
Evidently many people got word that the Friday show had been canceled. Here, as a result, was the extraordinary sight of Ms. Weilerstein, who these days plays to sold-out crowds in halls like the Philharmonie in Berlin, not just in an intimate setting but also before an audience of only 50 or so.
It was hard to notice anyone onstage but Ms. Weilerstein. Her father, Donald Weilerstein, is a violinist, and her mother, Vivian Hornik Weilerstein, a pianist. Both are noted players and teachers. But Alisa is a star.
She met the works' challenges with ease. Near the end of Dvorak's ''Dumky'' Trio she built an amazingly strong tremolo out of nothing, with the control she gets from holding her bow daringly far along the wood. She produces remarkable pizzicatos, plucking the strings with both warmth and penetrating power.
Her technical abilities serve a taste for sweep and intensity; she performs with soulful expression and physical abandon. On occasion in the ''Dumky'' she took this dramatic gift a bit too far, with excessive vibrato and ponderous bowing, as if she were playing in italics.
But as she settled in, her performances grew more natural, with rhythmic swing in Ives's Piano Trio and astonishing eloquence in Dvorak's Piano Quartet No. 1 (with Juan Miguel Hernandez on viola). Here, as in all her best work, her playing was an inspired combination of passion and control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Weilerstein Trio , including the cellist Alisa Weilerstein, played works by Dvorak and Ives at Bargemusic in Brooklyn on Friday evening. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (68%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



98 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Incentives for Advanced Work Let Pupils and Teachers Cash In

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
WORCESTER, Mass. -- Joe Nystrom, who teaches math at a low-income high school here, used to think that only a tiny group of students -- the ''smart kids'' -- were capable of advanced coursework.
But two years ago, spurred by a national program that offered cash incentives and other support for students and teachers, Mr. Nystrom's school, South High Community School, adopted a come one, come all policy for Advanced Placement courses. Today Mr. Nystrom teaches A.P. statistics to eight times as many students as he used to, and this year 70 percent of them scored high enough to qualify for college credit, compared with 50 percent before. One in four earned the top score possible, far outpacing their counterparts worldwide.
South High students said Mr. Nystrom and his colleagues had transformed the culture of a tough urban school, making it cool for boys with low-slung jeans who idolize rappers like Lil Wayne to take the hardest classes. 
They were helped by the National Math and Science Initiative, a nonprofit network that provided laboratory equipment and special training for teachers and organized afternoon tutoring and Saturday sessions. It also paid $100 each to students who scored a 3 or above on the A.P. exam -- and to their teachers, who can also earn additional rewards. Because 43 of his students passed the exam this year, far above his target, Mr. Nystrom will add a $7,300 check to his $72,000 salary.
Organizers of the initiative, who met with lawmakers and staff members at a Congressional briefing last month, said that over three years, the program led to nearly 38,000 A.P. exams being taken in math, science and English, many of them by black and Hispanic students. This year, 308 schools in six states are participating.
The initiative's success is refueling a debate over whether cash bonuses can coax improved performance from teachers and students -- a New York City incentive program was disbanded -- and whether paying students for schoolwork diminishes their ability to feel intrinsic pleasure in achievement for its own sake.
Roland G. Fryer, a Harvard economist who won a MacArthur Foundation award last month for his research on educational incentives, said that cash alone did not consistently raise achievement, but that combining payments with tutoring, teacher training and other tactics could be promising.
Of the 1,853 teachers participating in the initiative last year, more than half earned bonuses of at least $2,000, said Gregg Fleisher, a director of the initiative. Brian Leonard, who teaches A.P. calculus and statistics at Lake Hamilton High School in Arkansas, earned the largest award, $12,500, because 65 of his students passed the exams.
Three years ago, Lake Hamilton High had nine A.P. math students, and their parents were all doctors, lawyers or other professionals, Mr. Leonard said.
''I had a boy last year who was your quintessential average rural student: always dressed in camo, his dad was a mechanic,'' he said. ''He signed up for A.P. statistics, I worked with him, and he came out passing the exam.''
The College Board, which administers the A.P. program, has endorsed the math and science initiative, which is based in Dallas and is financed largely by Exxon.
In a book published last year, ''AP: A Critical Examination of the Advanced Placement Program,'' some academics expressed concern that under a push by the College Board to broaden its reach, too many unprepared students were taking -- and failing -- A.P. classes.
But Philip Sadler, a Harvard lecturer who edited the book, said of the effort: ''They're doing the right things and have had substantial increases in the number of kids who pass some A.P. exam. So that's all good news.''
South High Community, which sits on a hilltop in this gritty town west of Boston, acquired a violent reputation after a Hispanic student stabbed a black classmate to death in 1989. Eighty-five percent of its 1,220 students this year were poor enough to qualify for the federal lunch program. Like many schools, South had previously let students take A.P. classes only they if had passed certain prerequisite courses with high grades and obtained a teacher's recommendation.
In 2009, the school began working with the math and science initiative, which requires that all barriers to A.P. enrollment be removed. ''My initial instinct was that if we let everybody in, it was just going to dumb down the classes,'' Mr. Nystrom recalled.
But the school began urging students during announcements to sign up for A.P. classes, making it clear in guidance sessions and in meetings with parents that they were not just for white or middle-class students.
Mr. Nystrom had his own recruitment program. He made tongue-in-cheek posters portraying the rap stars Lil Wayne and Flavor Flav, as well as the male heartthrobs in ''Twilight,'' endorsing A.P. statistics as the supposed keys to success in life.
Forty-six students enrolled in Mr. Nystrom's class in 2009, up from 12 the year before, of whom six had earned qualifying scores of at least 3 out of 5. Of the 46 students, 22 earned qualifying scores on exams in May 2010.
Last fall, enrollment surged to 61 students. Forty-three of those passed the exam, and 15, or 25 percent, got the top score. Worldwide, 13 percent of the 143,000 people who took the statistics exam got 5's this year.
Thirty-one low-income students from Mr. Nystrom's class passed the exam, more than at any other high school in Massachusetts.
The teacher's manic energy and persistence may be one reason for his success. In his first-period class the other day, Mr. Nystrom outlined the meaning of basic vocabulary words in statistics -- sample, parameter, inference -- and then went over nuances.
Using an overhead projector, he drew a contingency table relating the relative preferences of males and females for hip hop, country and indie rock music, then used the table to explain marginal distribution.
Some students struggled to understand the table, and he explained it again -- until Ashley Tran, a 15-year-old sophomore, interrupted.
''Oh, I get it!'' she exclaimed.
''My favorite sound!'' Mr. Nystrom said. Kristopher Santana, 17, a senior whose mother is a customer service representative at a tool company, was among those who scored a 5 in May. He said the 18 hours of Saturday classes organized by the initiative, and Mr. Nystrom's twice-weekly, after-school tutoring sessions, had been helpful.
And the $100 incentive?
''There's something cool about the money,'' Kristopher said. ''It's a great extra.''
Mr. Nystrom attributed his students' success to the Saturday classes, the extra training he got and the collective effort by his colleagues to persuade students that hard work can bring success.
''I'd like to think the incentive payments had little impact,'' he added. ''But maybe way in the back of my mind, I know that if I just push a little harder and work every minute of every class, more students might pass the exam, and I might increase my monetary incentive.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about a program that pays cash incentives for teachers and students in Advanced Placement classes misstated the number of students worldwide who took the A.P. Statistics test in May. It was 143,000 -- not 18,000, which was the number of test-takers who earned a 5, the highest score. The article also misstated the percentage of students worldwide who scored a 5 on that test. It is about 13 percent, not 15 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Passing an Advanced Placement test earned 43 of Joe Nystrom's students $100 each. (A1)
 Kristopher Santana has taken Advanced Placement statistics, English and biology at his high school in Worcester, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN McGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CALCULUS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%)

PERSON: LIL WAYNE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



99 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Companies to Pass On More Of Health Costs to Workers

BYLINE: By BRUCE JAPSEN

 BODY:
Companies next year will push more health care costs onto their workers, who may see an increase of nearly 11 percent in what they have deducted from their paychecks for health insurance, according to a new annual study by Aon Hewitt, a large Chicago benefits consultancy.
As companies struggle to control costs in a tough economy, the 2012 annual employee premiums are expected to jump on average 10.6 percent, to $2,306. That figure has doubled since 2005, when workers at larger companies paid on average $1,192 annually per employee and paid about 17 percent of the company's costs, according to Aon Hewitt data. 
The employee share projected for next year is a contribution of 22 percent of the $10,475 employer cost of the health plan. This year, workers are paying 21.3 percent of the total cost, or $2,084 of the $9,792 total company-paid premium.
''The reality is that employers, particularly in this economy, are doing everything they can to get net company cost levels that they can budget for and afford,'' said Jim Winkler, a managing principal with Aon Hewitt, a unit of Aon Corp. ''Employers are shifting costs to employees to be able to afford to offer benefits.''
The per-employee cost figures are the company-paid premiums of the average worker. A single worker with no dependents or a spouse might pay less. A worker with dependents might pay more. Less than a week ago, the Kaiser Family Foundation released its annual survey of big and small employers, showing a 9 percent increase in 2011 premiums for employer-sponsored insurance.
The survey comes at the peak of so-called open enrollment season, which generally runs through mid-November, when companies disclose to workers their benefit options for the following year. Obama administration officials have asserted that the new federal health care law will help to contain costs in coming years. And other studies, like a preliminary one by Mercer, have shown a more moderate increase -- around 5 to 7 percent -- expected for next year.
Analysts attribute health care cost increases to employment trends that have left young adults unemployed at nearly double the rate of older Americans. That means fewer healthier workers are paying premiums while not using medical care services as much as older workers.
''Claims that tend to occur are from relatively unhealthy people with heart disease, diabetes and the ever-challenging issues of obesity, making interactions with the health care system more expensive,'' Mr. Winkler said. ''Companies are not hiring 22-year-olds who are healthy to offset the costs of the 58-year-old with diabetes and heart disease.''
When workers do use the system, they are going to pay more out of pocket as well. Employers, who continue to create benefit plans with higher deductibles and copayments, are leaving workers with out-of-pocket costs that are projected to jump 13 percent to $2,275 in 2012, from $2,007 this year.
Aon Hewitt's data comes from a database of about 350 large American employers that spend more than $52 billion annually on health care benefits for some 14.4 million employees and their dependents. The database includes large and midsize employers with more than 1,000 workers and in some cases, hundreds of thousands of workers.
Companies say they are trying to reward employees for healthier lifestyles in hopes of tempering the rise in health care costs, but they aren't there yet.
''If we played our cards right, I don't think we should need to cost-shift,'' said Andrew Webber, president and chief executive officer of the National Business Coalition on Health, which includes some of the nation's biggest employers as members.
Employers need to provide stronger incentives for workers to use primary medical care and preventive health care services.
''I don't think employers are doing their jobs,'' Mr. Webber added. ''We should be getting aggressive. They need to sign up to fill out the health risk assessment and if you are chronically ill, you will have to automatically enroll in a disease management program.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); OBESITY (73%); DIABETES (63%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (92%); AON PLC (68%)

TICKER: AON (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (68%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



100 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Clear Channel Media Chief Agrees to Take the Helm

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
WhenRobert W. Pittman first joined Clear Channel Communications last November as the chairman of its media and entertainment business, he told the company that he was not interested in becoming chief executive.
Eleven months later, he has changed his mind.
Clear Channel announced on Sunday that it had named Mr. Pittman its new chief executive and executive chairman, ending a search to find a replacement for Mark P. Mays, a scion of the company's founding family. 
''It's very rare that you get such a test drive,'' Mr. Pittman said in a telephone interview on Saturday. ''This is one of those companies where the closer you looked, the better it seemed.''
It is the latest leadership post for Mr. Pittman, who helped create MTV and later became a senior executive at AOL.
But leading Clear Channel, which is both the nation's biggest radio station operator and an outdoor advertising giant, at a time when the company is under pressure from digital rivals and an uncertain economic outlook will be a new test for Mr. Pittman.
''The biggest challenge anyone faces is the macroeconomic picture,'' Mr. Pittman said. ''Anyone who does any business with the consumer and sells advertising worries about that.''
Clear Channel, which was taken over three years ago by the private equity firms Bain Capital and THL Partners, is also laboring under $19.9 billion in long-term debt, giving it little room for error.
The company has shown some improvement of late. Its second-quarter revenue rose 7.6 percent over the same time last year, to $1.6 billion. And its net loss during the same time has shrunk 38 percent, to $53.2 million.
Radio revenue for that time period rose about 4 percent, to $780.9 million.
''He has already generated a renewed sense of confidence and direction not only at Clear Channel, but across the entire radio and media landscape,'' Scott M. Sperling, a co-president of THL, said in a statement.
Mr. Pittman, 57, first joined last year after investing $5 million of his own money in Clear Channel. He became a senior adviser to the company's sprawling radio business, with a special interest in overseeing the expansion of its digital strategy.
Chief among his initiatives was building out iHeartRadio, a Facebook-linked service that made Clear Channel's 850 radio stations available both online and in smartphones. With iHeartRadio, the company sought to push back against the rise of Pandora Media and other Internet radio services.
Despite competition from Internet and satellite, terrestrial broadcast radio remains a strong draw for listeners and commuters. Last week Arbitron, the industry's standard ratings service, said that 241.4 million people 12 or older listened to the radio each week in the United States, an increase of 1.7 million from a year ago.
Last month, Clear Channel presented its first iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas, a two-day concert withLady Gaga, Coldplay, the Black Eyed Peas,Jay-Z and many others, to publicize its app and demonstrate to advertisers the strength of its reach.
Mr. Pittman said that iHeartRadio would become the central consumer brand for Clear Channel's stations. ''That has been a real win for us,'' he said.
Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research, added that Clear Channel had been surprisingly successful in competing against the latest generation of Internet start-ups.
''IHeartRadio illustrates how Pandora is more of a feature versus a stand-alone business, with iHeartRadio being able to combine the appeal of terrestrial radio with the functionality of customizable Internet radio,'' he wrote in an e-mail.
Clear Channel has also formed partnerships with other companies, including a forthcoming music service on Microsoft's Xbox Live and streaming the music for Zynga's collaboration with Lady Gaga.
It has also made some small acquisitions, including Thumbplay, a digital music subscription service that was folded into iHeartRadio. Mr. Pittman said that Clear Channel might strike more deals in the future, but that he would focus in large part on organic growth.
Mr. Pittman will also oversee Clear Channel's outdoor advertising business, which owns or operates some 190,000 displays in North America. It also has operations in nearly 30 countries in Asia, Australia and Europe. That business has fared well, reporting a 12 percent rise in second-quarter revenue from last year, to $789.2 million.
Mr. Pittman, who entered the media business as a 15-year-old radio announcer in Brookhaven, Miss., helped create MTV in 1981 and later worked at Time Warner and Century 21 before joining AOL in 1996. He became the chief operating officer of the newly merged AOL Time Warner in 2001, but left the next year.
Since then, he has become a venture capitalist, co-founding the Pilot Group in 2002. The firm was an early investor in Zynga, the online game titan, and it sold DailyCandy to Comcast three years ago for $125 million.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Pittman was chairman of the company's media and entertainment businesses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AP PHOTO/CLEAR CHANNEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SMARTPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: P (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MARK P MAYS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



101 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Altering a Deal Without Blocking it

BYLINE: By ROB COX and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
Blocking mergers is the bluntest tool in an antitrust watchdog's armory. That is what the Justice Department is trying with AT&T's ambition to acquire T-Mobile USA.
But as the case of Live Nation Entertainment shows, aborting deals is not always necessary to foster competition; extracting concessions can work instead.
A 2010 deal united Live Nation, the leading concert promoter in the United States, with Ticketmaster, the largest ticket seller. The creation of such a vertically integrated beast scared consumer groups. Even rock 'n' roll tough guys like Pearl Jam and Bruce Springsteen sang foul. 
But a funny thing happened on the way to Live Nation's predicted market domination. It never actually materialized. That much is apparent to the company's stockholders. Since hitting a postcrisis peak north of $16 soon after the merger closed, the stock has lost about half its value.
In approving the deal, the Justice Department set some important conditions. Among these, Live Nation was required to license its ticketing technology to a nascent rival, AEG. It was also prohibited from retaliating against concert sites that worked with competitors.
At the time, opponents of the merger considered these insufficient. Clearly, investors today think differently. Since August, when AEG went live with its new AXS ticketing site, Live Nation's shares have fallen by 25 percent.
In addition to competitive threats, Live Nation appears to have set itself back by misjudging the market. While Lady Gaga still manages to attract hordes to big arenas, consumer preference may be moving toward smaller sites and more independent acts. To wit, Radiohead played the relatively tiny Roseland Ballroom in New York last week, not Madison Square Garden.
One promoter taking advantage of changing tastes is Ashley Capps. Later this month he is putting on Moogfest, a three-day music festival dedicated to the synthesizer invented by Bob Moog.
Some 12,000 concertgoers paying as much as $350 are expected to attend each day. And all of this, arguably, was made possible by regulators flexible enough to look for alternatives to blocking Live Nation's deal.
Time for Long Bonds?
Orson Welles once hawked wine using the tagline: ''Paul Masson will sell no wine before its time.'' The same could be said about the United States Treasury and 50- or 100-year bonds. Maybe it is finally the right moment to actually sell some.
The Federal Reserve's latest maneuver, what it is calling Operation Twist, is squarely focused on reducing longer-term interest rates. By mid-2012, it plans to buy about $116 billion worth of Treasury securities maturing in 20 to 30 years' time.
That represents roughly a quarter of the outstanding stock, excluding what the central bank already has on its balance sheet, according to Deutsche Bank.
After the Fed's announcement of its plan, 30-year yields have already dropped below 3 percent.
One reason is that the Fed will be muscling in on scarce supply. Pension and retirement funds, along with insurers, need long-dated paper to match their distant liabilities. These investors own more than half the 20- to 30-year government bonds not already in the Fed's hands, Deutsche Bank estimates. They want more safe long-term investments, but the central bank's move will leave fewer available.
The Treasury could just issue more 30-year debt. Foreign holders prefer shorter maturities, so that could attract more domestic investment. And it would lengthen the average maturity on the United States debt, which is now scarcely more than five years.
Though that figure has been increasing somewhat, America's debt profile is still front-ended compared with other large developed economies, so there is room to extend it.
But if the Treasury ramps up 30-year bond sales just as the Fed is buying them, it risks criticism of a policy conflict. Going to longer maturities would do the trick.
The Treasury kicked off a debate on the merits of a 50- or 100-year bond in February. At that time, 30-year bonds were yielding more than 4.5 percent. Today's lower rates surely make adding debt that runs another couple of decades that much more attractive.
Mr. Welles was said to have been inebriated while filming some of his wine commercials. The Treasury should not get drunk on ultralong bond issuances. But there may never be a better time to sell them in judicious quantities. ROB COX
and AGNES T. CRANE
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Radiohead's frontman, Thom Yorke, last week at Roseland Ballroom in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORY SCHWARTZ/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET AGENCIES (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MERGERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BONDS (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); APPROVALS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); MUSIC (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (56%); LADY GAGA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



102 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Innovator Of Dance Celebrates 40 Years

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
ROCHESTER -- Garth Fagan does not simply walk into a room.
At 71 this ponytailed, Tony Award-winning choreographer of ''The Lion King'' moves as if he had wings on his shiny, green-trimmed black sneakers. On a recent warm day here at the downtown headquarters of Garth Fagan Dance he splashed into a high-ceilinged, bright studio to watch his troupe rehearse the work ''Madiba,'' to be given its premiere on Tuesday at the Joyce Theater in New York. This is the first time Mr. Fagan has injected technology into his abstract choreography.
''O.K., darlings, here we go,'' he said, as the dancers twisted, thrust side to side, moved forward, jumped in the air and extended their legs.
''Madiba,'' a celebration of the life and ideas of Nelson Mandela, is signature Fagan: it has elements of modern and Afro-Caribbean dance as well as ballet, performed with elegant athleticism by dancers of varying body types. A piece of about 25 minutes, it includes a sensuous ballet-inflected duet and a modern version of a South African circle dance. 
Norwood Pennewell, a longtime dancer with the company who portrays the Mandela figure, will have a small high-definition video camera attached to his head at times. It will allow him to film the other performers while he dances, with the images projected onto a screen.
Set to music of the South African jazz composer Abdullah Ibrahim, those images are meant to suggest Mr. Mandela's perspective and memories of friendships, love, incarceration, Mr. Fagan said. He expects the camera to work just fine, he said, but in case it does not, he has a Plan B: without it.
''It's a new direction for me,'' he said of the camera. ''Madiba,'' he added, like much of his repertory, is focused on ideas and relationships and is decidedly nonautobiographical and nonnarrative. But he has included a quotation from Mr. Mandela in the program to guide the way: ''For to be free is not merely to cast off one's chains, but to live in a way that reflects and enhances the freedom of others.''
Spending even a sliver of time with Mr. Fagan, who is talkative and easygoing, suggests that he too is taken with the notion of a more inclusive world. A great-grandfather who likes cooking, poetry, painting, music and collecting art, he rails against bias of any kind. One of his big dreams is to perform ''Madiba'' for Mr. Mandela, whom he has met several times and admires greatly.
''I want 'Madiba' to be an inspirational piece for survival, for change,'' Mr. Fagan said in his mellifluous Jamaican accent. ''I do not want this to be a documentary of his life. I'm interested in the strength, the perseverance, in uniting his country. That's why I'm not naming people, and I'm calling it 'Madiba,' '' the name of Mr. Mandela's clan.
''It's a community of people,'' Mr. Fagan added. ''It's more than one person.''
Mr. Fagan trained his attention on a duet in which a male dancer picked up a young female dancer, turned her upside down and they spin around. ''This is a youthful romance from Mandela's perspective,'' Mr. Fagan said to a visitor. ''Ladies, you can jump and have a man to catch you, and it's O.K..''
''You seldom see black male-female relationships onstage that are warm and flirtatious,'' he added.
''Madiba'' is not the only new dance in his troupe's Joyce run, from Tuesday through Sunday. Mr. Fagan is in the midst of a two-year celebration of the 40th anniversary of the founding of his company, and Mr. Pennewell, with the company for more than 30 years and the only other person to have choreographed for it, will introduce his ''Liminal Flux,'' set to music by Miles Davis and Chancha Via Circuito. Also in the mix will be ''Thanks Forty,'' Mr. Fagan's tribute to the company's history through many iterations, beginning with the teasing name the Bottom of the Bucket but ... Dance Theater in 1970.
The programs also reach back in time with ''Translation Transition'' from 2002, with a score from Jazz Jamaica All Stars (an exploration of traditional Jamaican music and jazz) and ''Memoriam,'' created in 2001 to honor the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks and their families.
Mr. Fagan, who has racked up a bouquet of awards over the years, has created nothing less than a new branch of modern dance, said Judith Jamison, the former dancer and for many years artistic director of the Alvin Ailey Dance Company.
''He's not Eurocentric,'' Ms. Jamison said. ''It's Caribbean, it's polyrhythmic, it's about sculpting space in a different way. He goes outside the boxes that are used, that dictate that we should look a certain way and move a certain way.''
Or, as Mr. Fagan says, he is jazz-influenced, sometimes moving his dancers with the music, sometimes against it.
His work manages to combine a ''rich physicality and deeply human context,'' said Virginia Johnson, the artistic director of the Dance Theater of Harlem.
This 40th anniversary is also a time for new work, culminating in a collaboration with Mr. Fagan's close friend the composer and trumpeter Wynton Marsalis at the Brooklyn Academy of Music next September. It comes two decades after his first collaboration with Mr. Marsalis, ''Griot New York,'' a project Mr. Fagan called one of the ''great blessings'' of his life.
He and Mr. Marsalis cooked up ''Griot,'' with a set that included pieces by the sculptor Martin Puryear, in 1991. An abstract distillation of the black experience that had its premiere at the Brooklyn Academy, it was acclaimed by critics. Over the years in which Mr. Fagan has continued to explore new pathways in dance, pushing back against those who sometimes found his work hard to define, his company of seven men and seven women has toured throughout the world.
The former Knights of Columbus building here is home to the Garth Fagan Dance School, a three-week summer institute and administrative offices. The walls are dotted with poster-size reviews. Mr. Fagan began his career as a dancer, studying with Martha Graham, Pearl Primus, Alvin Ailey and Jose Limon and later creating work for Ms. Jamison, Dance Theater of Harlem, Limon Dance Company and the New York City Ballet. His own dancers receive a salary and benefits; they do not work under contract, as they do in many companies.
''He really nurtures us so much that he can tell exactly what each dancer needs to stretch them,'' Mr. Pennewell said. ''His legacy is his standards. He is a very hard-working person who has never, ever rested on his laurels. You have to take it to the wall every day.''
Mr. Fagan has been known quietly to aid students and young dancers without resources, said Ruby P. Lockhart, the executive director of the company. Its dancers draw audiences and the company receives generous financial support from local sources and foundations, but Mr. Fagan lamented that he remained a large contributor.
''Everybody's having problems'' because of the economy, he said.
''My curse is I love details, and I could eat, sleep and dream this,'' he said at the end of the workday, sitting in his home in a quiet residential area where the only sound came from the cries of his 10 pet birds. ''I love the process of going for perfection.''
Garth Fagan Dance appears from Tuesday to Sunday at the Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea; (212) 242-0800 or joyce.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The choreo grapher and dancer Garth Fagan. (C1)
 Members of Garth Fagan Dance rehearsing ''Madiba'' for a premiere at the Joyce Theater this week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUY SOLIMANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DANCERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (64%); ART COLLECTING (60%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



103 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Success Battling Terrorists, but Scant Glory for It

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Megan Thee-Brenan contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The killing of an American-born Al Qaeda leader in Yemen on Friday will probably bolster the high marks Americans give President Obama for dealing with terrorism and foreign policy. Yet his overall approval ratings are likely to remain depressed, underscoring the economy's drag on his prospects for re-election.
Ten years after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, economic insecurity has replaced national security as Americans' chief concern, leaving Mr. Obama with little credit for his record of hunting and killing terrorists -- a topic that stirred public passions not long ago.
Instead, the successes notched since Mr. Obama escalated antiterrorism operations upon taking office -- crowned by the killing of Osama bin Laden in May and then punctuated by Friday's drone strike against the American-born leader, Anwar al-Awlaki -- are overshadowed almost completely by his failure to reduce unemployment. 
The contrast with his predecessor could hardly be starker. Long after the attacks of 2001, President George W. Bush rode a wave of popularity for his image as the take-charge commander of what he called a global war on terror. But the bump Mr. Obama got in the polls after he ordered the risky operation that killed Bin Laden, whom Mr. Bush had promised to get ''dead or alive,'' lasted barely a month.
That suggests that Mr. Obama, whose approval ratings as president hit a new low in September, cannot expect much improvement after the missile strike that killed Mr. Awlaki, the Qaeda propagandist believed to have radicalized numerous Muslims, including Nidal Malik Hasan, the Army major accused of the 2009 Fort Hood mass shooting, and Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Nigerian who tried to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner on Dec. 25, 2009. Also killed in the strike, according to American officials, was Samir Khan, the editor of Al Qaeda's magazine.
''While people view what's occurred as positive, it's not enough to offset the concern about how he's handling the No. 1 issue -- jobs and the economy. And that's what he's being judged on,'' said David Winston, a Republican pollster.
A New York Times/CBS News poll in mid-September showed just 43 percent of Americans approved of Mr. Obama's job performance, while 50 percent disapproved. Just after Bin Laden's death, Americans by a 20-point spread, 57 percent to 37 percent, approved of his handling of his job. A month later the margin had closed again: 48 percent approved and 43 percent disapproved.
Even many Democrats complain that Mr. Obama seems weak in his budget fights with Congressional Republicans and too willing to compromise. A CNN poll in September had 52 percent of Americans saying the president was not ''a strong and decisive leader.''
Yet Mr. Obama's ratings for fighting terrorism rose after he took office -- after a campaign in which Democratic and Republican rivals depicted him as a liberal naif on national security -- and have remained high. More than six of 10 Americans approved of his handling of terrorism threats in a Times/CBS poll in June.
On his handling of the economy, however, the numbers flip. And that, say people in both parties, explains his political plight.
''This president is in trouble because the economy is in terrible shape,'' said Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster. But he predicted that the antiterrorism effort would ultimately play to Mr. Obama's benefit in next year's election: ''Usually Democrats are on the defensive when it comes to national defense and terrorism. Nobody will be able to label him as soft on national defense.''
For now, though, the disconnect between Mr. Obama's national security record and his overall approval rating, though understandable given Americans' preoccupation with the economy, is a matter of continuing frustration within the administration.
''It's hard for these things to break through in a world where the conversation is about the economy at every kitchen table all the time,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. But, he added, ''When we get to next year, the president is going to have a very powerful case to make about his foreign policy successes.''
To the extent that such sentiment has not broken through, factors other than the economy could be at work. Even before the recession and financial crisis that Mr. Obama inherited, Americans had become complacent about terrorism. The operations are covert, and except for Bin Laden, are against shadowy, little-known figures.
Some of the explanation might also be traced to the White House. Mr. Obama seems reluctant to draw attention to the record as he emphasizes his job-creation agenda, and perhaps wants to avoid being seen as taking credit for the acts of military and intelligence operatives. In his statement about the Yemen strike, Mr. Obama was spare in his remarks.
''His view is that he's not one to boast or to do end-zone dances on these issues,'' said Benjamin Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser.
In speeches that lately have become more campaignlike, Mr. Obama typically seeks to rally supporters discouraged by the partisan gridlock by boasting of achievements to date, like the health care act passed in 2010, and repeal of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' law against openly gay service members. Only occasionally does he mention the killing of Bin Laden. Over the past 10 days, at events in Washington, California, Colorado and Ohio, Mr. Obama cited him once, at a fund-raiser in San Diego.
''We have decimated Al Qaeda and killed Bin Laden,'' he told donors midway through his usual rundown of accomplishments, drawing applause. Yet two hours later, at another fund-raiser, he was silent on the matter.
And if Mr. Obama does not take credit, nor does he get much from either party.
Since the Vietnam era, Democrats generally have been uncomfortable talking tough about national security. Some liberals criticize Mr. Obama for expanding the war in Afghanistan and for extrajudicial killings of suspected terrorists like Mr. Awlaki. Among the few statements of reaction from Congressional Democrats on Friday was a critical one from Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a liberal from Ohio, who objected that the killing was ''wrong legally, constitutionally and morally.''
One Republican, Representative Peter T. King, the chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, called the killing ''a tremendous tribute to President Obama and the men and women of our intelligence community.'' But a memo from a House Republican leadership office on Friday morning was headlined ''Tough Day for the White House''; it referred only to domestic issues, saying nothing about Mr. Awlaki.
The contenders for the Republican presidential nomination say almost nothing about national security, reflecting their emphasis on the economy, their differences with one another and also, perhaps, the difficulty of finding fault with Mr. Obama's antiterrorism record.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama has low approval ratings over all, as a focus on the economy distracts from foreign policy successes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISTOFFER TRIPPLAAR/SIPA PRESS, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FORT HOOD SHOOTINGS (64%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); YEMEN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



104 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Savior of the World, Heal Thyself: Prescription for America's Ailments

BYLINE: By WALTER RUSSELL MEAD. 
Walter Russell Mead is the James Clarke Chace professor of foreign policy and humanities at Bard College and editor at large of The American Interest.

 BODY:
THAT USED TO BE US
How America Fell Behind in the World It Invented and How We Can Come Back
By Thomas L. Friedman and and Michael Mandelbaum
380 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $28.
In ''That Used to Be Us'' Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum join a growing number of foreign policy thinkers warning that America's position abroad cannot endure without a renewal of the domestic sources of American prosperity and strength.
The concerns are justified. The United States faces the most profound set of challenges since the 1930s, when an economic depression and the breakdown of the British-led international order raised basic questions about our domestic politics and international strategy. 
''That Used to Be Us'' represents an effort by Mr. Mandelbaum, a professor at Johns Hopkins University and one of the country's leading public intellectuals, and Mr. Friedman, a columnist for The New York Times whose three Pulitzer Prizes only hint at the global influence of his work, to describe the rocky conditions of the present day and prescribe a way forward. This may be an American crisis, but as Mr. Friedman and Mr. Mandelbaum eloquently explain, it is not just an American concern. Nor is it simply a matter of improving the living standards of future generations in this country. Because of the unique -- and at this point irreplaceable -- American role in providing important public services across the globe, the world as a whole will become a much poorer and more dangerous place if Americans fail at the task of national renewal.
The authors provide a thoughtful and balanced corrective to critics on the left who believe that our present economic troubles demonstrate the fundamental failure of the liberal democratic capitalist ideas on which American society is built, and the critics on the right who believe that only a return to 19th-century small government policies can save us. The principles behind our society, they argue, are broadly correct, but without institutional reform we cannot apply them as fairly or as fully as we should.
When it comes to solutions the authors reach for a classic American approach that -- at least in my judgment -- is fundamentally sound though difficult to apply. A long tradition of American thinkers and statesmen -- George Washington, Alexander Hamilton, Henry Clay, Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower, to name a few -- have argued that a strong and forward-looking federal government should promote a healthy domestic economy and a strong international presence.
This tradition is often called Hamiltonian because of Alexander Hamilton's role in formulating its basic outlines while serving as Washington's Treasury secretary. Mr. Friedman and Mr. Mandelbaum's blueprint for the next stage in American prosperity is essentially a revival of this Hamiltonian vision of a strong, pro-market national government that creates the most favorable possible conditions (and provides funds for the infrastructure) to promote private enterprise.
As Mr. Friedman and Mr. Mandelbaum note, this Hamiltonian project cuts across the conventional wisdom in both political parties today. The Republican hostility to most forms of government activity recalls the stances of Hamilton's opponents who argued that a powerful federal government would attack liberty and waste taxpayer money. Politicians like Representative Ron Paul and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas consciously draw on the anti-Hamiltonian ideas of thinkers like Thomas Jefferson to attack the idea of a powerful, economically interventionist federal government.
But the authors of this book also have uncomfortable words for Democrats. Hamiltonians historically believed in sound government finance and efficient administration. This is not the kind of talk that public sector labor unions and partisans of the entitlement state like to hear. ''That Used to Be Us'' unsparingly describes the causes and likely consequences of the recklessly unsustainable pension and entitlement promises that are among the gravest fiscal problems we now face. It also calls for smarter and less cumbersome forms of regulation, something that business is more likely to support than some traditional Democratic constituencies.
These are big truths, and the authors see them clearly and whole. As is usual in Mr. Friedman's work the power of the core argument is buttressed by detailed reportage and blizzards of specific fact and detail, but the accumulation of anecdote and evidence never detracts from the book's central thrust. ''That Used to Be Us'' is an important contribution to an intensifying debate, and it deserves the widest possible attention. But there are a couple of weak spots in the argument that could use shoring up.
One small example involves California. On the one hand the authors take that state to task for its fiscal irresponsibility, chaotic policy making and a generally incoherent approach to economic development and governance. Yet at other times they hail California as a model, citing its tough energy and construction codes. Many people argue that those energy regulations contribute to the gridlock that is driving California's economy down. ''That Used to Be Us'' would present a stronger argument if it addressed problems like this more directly.
More broadly, the authors propose an essentially Hamiltonian approach to the country's challenges but do not really take on the arguments that Jeffersonian critics make in response. For example, can subsidies and incentives really work when the technological uncertainties are so large and political lobbies so powerful?
The authors point to Chinese high-speed rail development and American government support for alternative energy generation as highly effective, but recent rail mishaps in China and the Solyndra bankruptcy here render these solutions more problematic. (Daniel Yergin's new book, ''The Quest,'' also raises important questions about the value of alternative energy subsidies.) And what of the way lobbyists and private interests distorted Fannie Mae mortgage programs in ways that worsened the housing bubble? Even well-intentioned federal interventions often go awry.
Partly because small-government advocates are denigrated rather than engaged, many conservative thinkers will look at this book as more liberal sludge -- calls for greater federal spending, tough energy policy to ward off climate change, more control over American life by credentialed ''experts'' -- and dismiss ''That Used to Be Us'' as same-old, same-old boilerplate from the Eastern establishment.
That would be a mistake. The gaps opening between the arguments in this book and conventional Democratic politics run very deep. When talking about the cultural sources of American strength Mr. Friedman and Mr. Mandelbaum can sound like staunch Tea Party members. When pointing to an institution where American values are still strong, they choose the military. They say the United States has been an exceptional nation, and they want it to remain one.
As American politics looks increasingly dysfunctional, Mr. Friedman and Mr. Mandelbaum show great courage in casting aside conventional assumptions. Few readers will agree with every observation and argument in this thoroughly researched and passionately argued book, but all of them should find ''That Used to Be Us'' compelling, engaging and enlightening.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas L. Friedman, left, and Michael Mandelbaum. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (53%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

TITLE: That Used to Be Us (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



105 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
UNREST IN YEMEN CONTINUES
DESPITE TOP MILITANT'S DEATH
Despite the death of Anwar al-Awlaki, the Yemeni-American cleric who was a propagandist for aspiring jihadists around the globe, Yemen's battle against Al Qaeda is far from complete, as security forces fought over the weekend against Islamic militants who control large areas of territory in the country's south. In Zinjibar, a city captured by Islamic militants linked with Al Qaeda, about 25 militants and 20 soldiers have been killed in fighting over two days, local security officials said. Page A4
ISRAEL ACCEPTS PEACE TALKS
Israel formally accepted an international proposal to return to peace negotiations with the Palestinians, but any immediate resumption of talks appeared unlikely as the Israelis and Palestinians differed sharply over the letter and spirit of the proposal. A senior Palestinian official said over the weekend that after three days of deliberations, the Palestinian leadership had decided not to return to talks unless Israel halted all settlement construction and agreed to clear terms of reference for the negotiations. Page A7 
AN ECONOMICS CRASH COURSE
Before being sworn in as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey sought guidance from the economics professors at West Point after realizing that he needed a better understanding of the economy, which seemed likely to define his tenure. During General Dempsey's term, a significant challenge will be how best to care for the military and protect the United States' national security interests with drastically fewer Defense Department dollars. Page A8
GREECE'S CONTROVERSIAL PLAN
After talks with foreign auditors, the Greek government said that it had reached a deal on how to slash its unwieldy public sector, by putting 30,000 workers on a controversial scheme that would lead to early retirement for some and dismissal for others. The government also finalized a draft budget for 2012, which it conceded would miss a deficit-reduction target of 7.6 percent of gross domestic product. The deficit is projected to account for 8.5 percent of G.D.P. this year. Page A9
National
ECONOMIC ILLS OVERSHADOW
OBAMA'S ANTITERROR WINS
The killing of an Al Qaeda leader in Yemen will probably bolster the high marks Americans give President Obama for dealing with terrorism and foreign policy. Yet his approval ratings will likely remain depressed, underscoring the economy's drag on his re-election prospects. Ten years after the Sept. 11 attacks, economic insecurity has replaced national security as Americans' chief concern. Page A16
FROM THE BUSH PLAYBOOK
Over the next year, President Obama will try to exploit social and national security issues to offset his economic vulnerabilities. America's economic woes stand to dominate the 2012 dialogue no matter what. However, Mr. Obama's strategists intend to use abortion, gay rights, the environment and successes against Al Qaeda to drive a wedge between Republicans and swing voters. The Caucus. Page A16
New York
CITY LAYOFFS TO HIT
POOREST SCHOOLS HARDEST
The pink slips have gone out, and if no deal is reached by Friday, 716 of New York City's lowest-paid workers -- school aides, parent coordinators and other members of school support staffs -- will lose their jobs, the latest victims of budget cuts to the public schools. Nearly 350 schools will be affected, in a scattered pattern, according to a list of layoffs by school obtained by The New York Times. Page A20
A CHALLENGE FOR LAWYER
Minutes before she would kill her husband, Barbara Sheehan was on the computer -- reading her son's religion paper, surfing the Web for travel bargains and reading about celebrity couples -- hardly the behavior of a woman in fear for her life, a prosecutor underscored last week at Ms. Sheehan's murder trial. But to Ms. Sheehan's lawyer, Michael G. Dowd, her actions seemed completely logical. Page A21
Fashion
MIXING THING UP IN PARIS
Comme des Garcons, Yohji Yamamoto and Isabel Marant were among the designers presenting their spring 2012 collections in Paris. Fashion reviews. Page A26
Business
CONVENTION FOR ORACLE
ENGULFS SAN FRANCISCO
Commuters driving into San Francisco will discover major downtown thoroughfares closed. More than 129,000 square feet of tents have sprouted around the city's convention center for Oracle, a company that sells database management software. Oracle's OpenWorld convention, which runs through Thursday, requires a quarter-million cups of coffee and 14,700 hotel rooms. Page B1
TELECOM CHARGES REVIEWED
The European commissioner for digital technology is expected to begin a review into the charges that the largest telecommunications operators impose for leasing access to their national landline networks. The commissioner, Neelie Kroes, will determine whether wholesale access charges are unduly inflated, making the operators' outdated copper wire networks so profitable that they are less inclined to invest in new high-speed broadband networks. Page B3
BANDS FIND MARKETING ALLY
Topspin Media and other companies are offering bands like the Pixies sophisticated tools to run all aspects of their online business. Topspin, which was founded in 2007 and operated by invitation until it opened to wide membership in March, offers bands customizable Web widgets to sell recordings, tickets and merchandise, as well as a detailed back-end accounting system. Page B1
Arts
INNOVATOR OF DANCE
CELEBRATES 40 YEARS
Garth Fagan, the Tony Award-winning choreographer of ''The Lion King,'' is in the midst of a two-year celebration of the 40th anniversary of the founding of his company. Starting next week, he'll bring his dance troupe to the Joyce Theater with the premiere of ''Madiba,'' a celebration of the life and ideas of Nelson Mandela. Page C1
Sports
A CHANGED N.H.L. FOCUSES
ON SHOTS TO THE HEAD
The 2011-12 season will be very different from any season played before, even if Sidney Crosby will not be on the ice for the start of it. It is a season that will be watched closely to see whether the N.H.L. will continue to enforce its new, rigorously applied rules against boarding and checks to the head, which resulted in nine suspensions in the preseason. Page D5
UNOFFICIAL VISITS UNDER FIRE
The report that an assistant football coach at Tennessee, Willie Mack Garza, paid $1,500 for a top-rated tailback, Lache Seastrunk, and his mother to take an unofficial visit to Tennessee sent reverberations throughout college sports. Coaches, recruiting analysts and an N.C.A.A. official said in interviews that illegal payment for a prospect's unofficial visit was one of the most commonly manipulated N.C.A.A. rules. Page D2
DETROIT'S LACKLUSTER START
In the first inning of his first career postseason start, Detroit pitcher Max Scherzer needed a compass, guidebook, or global positioning satellite system to find the strike zone. The pitches that departed his hand in similar fashion were scattering every which way but where he wanted. Scherzer threw 27 pitches against the Yankees in that inning, but only 12 for strikes, writes Greg Bishop. Page D7
Obituaries
BOB CASSILY, 61
Bob Cassilly was a sculptor and artist, among other things, who was best known for City Museum, a children's paradise of odd treasures, in St. Louis. Page B10
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE 21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); RELIGION (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); BUDGETS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); EARLY RETIREMENT (63%); PERSONAL FINANCE (62%); ABORTION (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); GREECE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



106 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
CiCi's Pizza, Coppell, Tex., named the Dallas office of Publicis USA, part of the Publicis Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, as its agency of record. The account, with spending estimated at $26 million, had been handled by Deutsch L.A., which is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
People 
Lee Doyle, North American chief executive for MEC, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, is stepping down, the agency said, ''to take a new direction in his career within GroupM and WPP,'' adding that ''his new role will be announced in due course.'' Mr. Doyle's duties will be assumed by Charles Courtier, global chief executive at MEC, until a new North American chief executive is named.
Patrick Scissons joined Grey Canada, Toronto, part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, as chief creative officer. He assumes duties from Carl Jones, executive creative director, who recently left. Mr. Scissons had been leading his own agency, Birthplace, Toronto, which is being acquired by, and becoming part of, Grey Canada; financial terms were not disclosed. The Grey Group is owned by WPP.
Patrick Hounsell joined Merkle, Columbia, Md., as chief digital officer, a new post. He had most recently been senior vice president and general manager for national media at Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.
Allison Werder, executive vice president for strategy and business development at Parade Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications, was promoted to a new post, executive vice president and chief marketing officer, overseeing Parade, Parade Digital and Dash. She will continue to be in charge of digital and business development efforts in addition to her new duties. Also, Stephen Buerger, senior vice president and Midwest advertising director in the Chicago office, was promoted to senior vice president, also overseeing Parade, Parade Digital and Dash. He succeeds Jim Hackett, who became senior vice president for integrated solutions. And Amy Crossman joined Parade as vice president for marketing, reporting to Mr. Buerger; she succeeds Michele Murphy, who left, the company said. Ms. Crossman had most recently been marketing director at Crain's New York Business, part of Crain Communications.
Miscellany
BrandinHand, Santa Monica, Calif., which specializes in mobile marketing, was acquired by FRWD, a digital agency based in Minneapolis. The deal, which calls for BrandinHand to become a subsidiary of FRWD, was made for cash and stock. John Hadl, founder and chief executive at BrandinHand, becomes partner emeritus at FRWD. Seven of the eight employees of BrandinHand will join FRWD.
Interpublic Group of Companies, New York, acquired majority control of S2Publicom, a Brazilian public relations agency with offices in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Financial terms were not disclosed. S2Publicom will give two Interpublic public relations agencies, Weber Shandwick and Golin Harris, a presence in Brazil.
USA Today, McLean, Va., part of the Gannett Company, is expanding its popular annual poll of Super Bowl commercials, introduced in 1989, known as the Super Bowl Ad Meter. USA Today is teaming up with Facebook for the 24th Ad Meter, in February 2012, which will be renamed the USA Today-Facebook Super Bowl Ad Meter. They will add apps on facebook.com and usatoday.com that will allow consumers to view the commercials that run during the game and rate them. USA Today will continue the traditional Ad Meter poll, involving a focus group of consumers who use meters in a controlled environment to rate the commercials in real time during the game. Both sets of results will be reported by USA Today.
MDC Partners, Toronto, is taking a majority stake in a new agency, the Bull-White House, New York, which is being opened by Matthew Bull, who had been chief creative officer of the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Bull is being joined in the Bull-White House by Andrew Whitehouse, a founder of FoxP2, Cape Town, South Africa, and Lee Davis, who had most recently been director for business development at JWT New York, part of the JWT unit of WPP.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (97%); WPP PLC (92%); PUBLICIS USA (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (86%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); PARADE PUBLICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (97%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%)

PERSON: JAMES P HACKETT (55%); JAMES T HACKETT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



107 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Bill Requiring Higher Wages Puts a Leader On the Spot

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Supporters of a faltering bill that would require companies in city-subsidized projects to pay higher wages plan a new push to revive the measure, setting up an unwelcome choice for Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, who could anger either labor leaders or business interests by her action on the legislation.
The so-called living wage proposal has the support of 30 of the 51 members of the Council, but is opposed by business leaders and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration. 
Supporters say they are prepared to compromise and will propose narrowing the number of companies affected by the legislation, to try to protect manufacturers and small businesses.
''We've tried very hard here to make something that will not affect a large number of people who were concerned about it,'' said one of the bill's sponsors, Councilman G. Oliver Koppell of the Bronx. The bill, which Mr. Koppell and another council member from the Bronx, Annabel Palma, introduced last year, is modeled on measures that have been enacted around the country. It would require that employees working in city-subsidized projects be paid $10 an hour with benefits, or $11.50 an hour without benefits. Minimum wage is $7.25 an hour.
Supporters say that recently released poverty statistics, which showed one in five New Yorkers living below the poverty line, provide evidence that the bill is needed. The city ''has not done enough to advance policies that will strengthen working families,'' Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn said.
The city's Economic Development Corporation has opposed the proposal, citing a $1 million study it commissioned, which found that a wage requirement would hurt employment in the city. Advocates criticized the study as biased, and a discussion of it during a Council hearing in May became heated.
But the sponsors of the measure say that in response to the critique, they will introduce an amended version that would exclude manufacturing businesses, and companies with less than $5 million in annual revenue or under $1 million in city subsidies. The amended measure would also require companies to pay the ''living wage'' for only 10 years -- down from 30 in the original proposal -- or for as long as the building in which the company was located received a city subsidy.
A mayoral spokeswoman, Julie Wood, said, ''We haven't seen the bill, but our administration is working to create jobs, not eliminate them by imposing new costs on employers and creating challenges to private investment.''
Mr. Bloomberg is still frustrated by the demise, in 2009, of a plan to develop the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx into a shopping mall, after a contentious debate over whether to require that tenants of the development pay at least $10 per hour to employees in exchange for the developer's receiving millions of dollars in tax breaks and incentives.
Ms. Quinn, who is expected to run for mayor in 2013, can kill a bill by not bringing it to a vote. Last year, she shelved a bill that would have required employers to provide paid sick days to their workers; it had the support of a veto-proof majority in the Council but was opposed by business interests.
On Friday, Ms. Quinn's spokesman, Jamie McShane, said the speaker's office had not yet received a bill with the proposed amendments and would review it when it did.
Ms. Quinn has courted the business community but also has a long history as a liberal activist, and her handling of the living wage issue is being closely watched by a variety of interest groups. Stuart Appelbaum, the president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which has strongly advocated for the bill, declined to say that opposing the bill would hurt Ms. Quinn's electoral chances.
But he said: ''I think that anyone who wants to hold public office in New York has to be concerned about what's happening to so many New Yorkers who are struggling to survive. It is the key question that every candidate for public office is going to have to address: How do we prevent New York from becoming a city of the well-to-do and the have-nots, with no middle class in between?''
Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of the Partnership for New York City, a business group, said the advocates deserved credit for trying to make the bill less burdensome. But she said, ''Income disparity in America needs to be addressed, but piecemeal actions like a local living wage bill, which will benefit relatively few workers, are likely to make conditions even worse for the vast majority of job seekers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); POVERTY RATES (65%); FAMILY (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



108 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Borrows From Bush '04 Playbook

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The last time an incumbent president faced re-election, George W. Bush exploited social and national security issues to offset his economic vulnerabilities.
Over the next year, President Obama will try the same thing.
Circumstances have changed drastically since 2004. America's economic woes stand to dominate the 2012 dialogue no matter what - probably to Mr. Obama's detriment.
Yet in important electoral battlegrounds, Mr. Obama's strategists intend to use abortion, gay rights, the environment and successes in the fight against Al Qaeda to counter economic attacks and drive a wedge between Republicans and swing voters. 
The Democratic shift from defense to offense on those issues stems from evolving public attitudes, intensifying Republican conservatism and the raid that killed Osama bin Laden on Mr. Obama's orders. The perilous state of the American economy undercuts the president's assertions that he prevented something worse.
The result: over the weekend, Mr. Obama accused his Republican challengers of displaying a ''kind of smallness'' by not denouncing a debate audience that booed a gay soldier. He used the incident to question their readiness to become commander in chief.
Days earlier at a California fund-raiser, Mr. Obama cast his re-election bid as an appeal to ''people of like mind, people who believe in a big and generous and a tolerant and ambitious and fact-based America.''
Those ''people of like mind'' include the affluent, college-educated residents of suburbs around Denver, Philadelphia, Raleigh-Durham, Orlando, Boston and Washington - the epicenters of Mr. Obama's fight for Colorado, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Florida, New Hampshire and Virginia.
The 'Monied' Suburbs
In his 2008 victory, Mr. Obama broke through among several important voter groups. Exit polls showed that he carried suburbanites, college graduates and those earning more than $200,000.
Mr. Obama won handily in areas that the research organization Patchwork Nation calls ''Monied 'Burbs.'' Residents of these high-income suburbs, which add up to roughly a quarter of the United States population, tend to be less religious and more tolerant of homosexuality and abortion rights, said Dante Chinni, Patchwork Nation's director.
They narrowly backed Republicans in the 2010 House elections. Their disappointment over the economy cloud Mr. Obama's 2012 re-election prospects.
But their distance from the Republican right on social issues gives Mr. Obama a tool for fighting back.
''The question is whether it's possible to pop those issues when the economy is this bad,'' said Jim Jordan, a campaign manager for Senator John Kerry's bid for the White House in 2004. ''The answer is maybe.''
Recent evidence is mixed.
In Colorado, the incumbent Democratic senator, Michael Bennet, survived the 2010 Republican wave after he ''shifted a chunk of the conversation off the economic and onto social issues,'' said Laura Chapin, a Democratic strategist in Denver. Mr. Obama's strategists view that victory as an object lesson.
It didn't work in the 2009 race for governor of Virginia. Democrats tried to cast the Republican nominee, Bob McDonnell, as an extremist on social issues; Mr. McDonnell, now governor, focused relentlessly on the economy.
Truce Proposed
That's why Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a Republican, has called for ''a truce'' on social issues. With Mr. Obama faring so poorly on the economy, the topics that rallied the conservative base for Mr. Bush now carry more costs than benefits.
Nor can Republicans capitalize on national security as they did in 2004. No leading Republican candidate has foreign policy experience. Mr. Obama's successes in targeting Al Qaeda, from the Bin Laden raid to the killing of Anwar al-Awlaki on Friday, give him potent tools for defusing a traditional Democratic vulnerability.
Mr. Obama's success in using social issues to attract affluent suburbanites will depend significantly on the outcome of Republican primaries. Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts now opposes abortion rights and backs a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage.
But Mr. Romney, a former finance executive, has focused overwhelmingly on the economy. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who is reconsidering whether to join the race, has defined himself politically through his drive to cut government spending.
The emphatic social conservatism of Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who opened his campaign soon after addressing a ''Call to Prayer'' Christian gathering in Houston, would provide a bigger target. ''You can't have a big religious rally and not scare the hell out of suburban Philadelphia,'' said Kim Alfano, a Republican consultant who advises Mr. Daniels.
Mr. Perry's insistence that man-made climate change remains unproved, mocked by Mr. Obama at that California fund-raiser, provides another opening among college-educated swing voters. Jill Hanauer, who directs the Democratic consultancy Project New West, said the issue could weaken Republicans' economic message by making the party appear to be ''looking backwards'' in an era of global competition.
Republicans have their own strong economic arguments for upscale suburbanites, including Mr. Obama's proposals to raise taxes on households earning more than $250,000. Those will echo Democrats' 2004 warnings to working-class voters - that social issues obscured how Mr. Bush had hurt their pocketbooks.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana has called for a truce on social issues among the Republican presidential candidates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ABORTION (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JIM JORDAN (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (73%); DURHAM, NC, USA (54%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



109 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: A U.S.-Backed Geothermal Plant in Nevada Struggles

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Eric Lipton reported from Washington and Clifford Krauss reported from Houston. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
WASHINGTON -- In a remote desert spot in northern Nevada, there is a geothermal plant run by a politically connected clean energy start-up that has relied heavily on an Obama administration loan guarantee and is now facing financial turmoil.
The company is Nevada Geothermal Power, which like Solyndra, the now-famous California solar company, is struggling with debt after encountering problems at its only operating plant.
After a series of technical missteps that are draining Nevada Geothermal's cash reserves, its own auditor concluded in a filing released last week that there was ''significant doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern.''
It is a description that echoes the warning issued in 2010 by auditors hired by Solyndra, which benefited from the same Energy Department loan guarantee before its collapse in August caused the Obama administration great embarrassment. 
The parallels between the companies illustrate the risk inherent in building the clean energy marketplace in the United States, government officials and industry experts say. Indeed, the loan guarantee program exists precisely because none of these ventures are a sure bet.
There are important differences between the fate of Nevada Geothermal and Solyndra, the maker of solar panels that has filed for bankruptcy.
The amount of money the federal government has at stake with Nevada Geothermal -- a loan guarantee of $79 million plus at least $66 million in grants -- is much smaller than the $528 million investment in Solyndra. There have been no allegations of wrongdoing by Nevada Geothermal or its Blue Mountain, Nev., plant.
Executives of the company express confidence that they can recover and say that the government investment is not at risk, despite the challenges they face because of a high debt load and lower-than-expected energy output at their plant.
''We are here,'' said Brian D. Fairbank, the chief executive, who like other company executives works out of Vancouver, British Columbia, where Nevada Geothermal Power has corporate offices. ''We're doing O.K.''
An Energy Department spokesman said he considered the Nevada Geothermal project a success, noting that the company had a long-term contract to sell its power.
''The Blue Mountain power plant is up and running, generating clean, renewable power and has been consistently making its loan payments on time and in full,'' the spokesman, Dan Leistikow, said.
The company also did not hire half a dozen Washington lobbying firms, as Solyndra did, and there is no evidence of White House involvement in pushing the project.
But the Nevada Geothermal project has benefited from the support of a bipartisan collection of Nevada politicians, most notably Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat and the Senate majority leader, who has called his home state the ''Saudi Arabia of geothermal energy.''
Nationally, geothermal energy produces only about 3,000 megawatts of power, a minuscule slice of the national electricity supply. The Nevada Geothermal plant generates just 35 megawatts -- enough to serve about 35,000 homes for a year -- and the company has only 22 employees in the state.
But Mr. Reid has taken the nascent geothermal industry under his wing, pressuring the Department of Interior to move more quickly on applications to build clean energy projects on federally owned land and urging other member of Congress to expand federal tax incentives to help build geothermal plants, benefits that Nevada Geothermal has taken advantage of.
''This project is exactly the type of initiative we need to ensure Nevada creates good-paying jobs,'' Mr. Reid said in a statement in April 2010, after he visited the company's Nevada plant. That was two months before the project even got conditional approval for the Energy Department loan guarantee.
During the tour, Mr. Reid had a chance to see electric generation equipment installed by a company called Ormat Technology, which is a Nevada Geothermal partner. Ormat's lobbyist in Washington, Kai Anderson, and one of the company's top executives, Paul Thomsen, are former aides to Mr. Reid.
Just last month, again with Mr. Reid's support, Ormat secured its own Energy Department loan guarantee, worth $350 million, to help support three other Nevada geothermal projects that are expected to produce 113 megawatts of power.
Mr. Reid has received some support from the industry, in the form of at least $43,000 worth of campaign contributions from the geothermal industry since 2009, according to an analysis of federal campaign finance records.
Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Mr. Reid, said that the senator was proud of his work as an advocate for geothermal power and a broad array of other clean energy projects in his state. But Mr. Jentleson, and the Energy Department spokesman, said Nevada Geothermal company had not received, nor been offered, any special treatment.
''If projects like this did not contain a certain level of risk, alongside their enormous potential for creating jobs and generating clean energy, there would be no need for the bipartisan loan guarantee program,'' Mr. Jentleson said.
An Obama administration official also pointed out that the Nevada Geothermal project won the enthusiastic support of prominent Republicans in the state, and of the Bush administration.
When Nevada Geothermal Power was finishing construction on its plant in late 2009, there was ample reason for optimism. Boiling waters are not far from the surface at this remote site, three hours outside of Reno. It had a 20-year contract to deliver power to the state's largest electric utility company.
But even before it applied for the Obama administration incentives, problems at the plant cropped up. Company executives have variously predicted the plant could generate as much as 45 megawatts, after accounting for energy needed to power it.
Yet when the plant started up in October 2009, only 27 megawatts of net power were initially generated from the hot water pumped from the earth. That was not enough for the company to honor its commitment to the electric utility company, or to pay back a $91 million loan -- carrying 14 percent interest -- that it has with a Washington-based investment firm.
Through modifications at the Blue Mountain site in Nevada -- drilling new wells to produce more steam -- the company has been able to get the net power output up to a steady 35 megawatts. But, as the annual report released last week reiterated, that was still not enough production to cover the company's loans and operating costs.
And that is just the beginning of the troubles. Early last year, it was forced to shut down for more than a month, after a ''faulty layout of underground cables'' caused a short circuit, a company statement said. Tests by the company also show that because of mistakes made in how the wells were set up, the water temperature is dropping, potentially meaning a drop in future power production.
Geothermal projects in general have encountered complications in recent years. They are a much riskier enterprise than solar panels or wind turbines, because the drilling can take several years and the power output is not guaranteed until the work is complete.
That explains why in recent months, shares of geothermal companies have collapsed, dropping far more than the shares of most renewable energy businesses. Nevada Geothermal, as of the market close Friday, was trading at 10 cents a share, down from $1.24 when its plant opened in 2009.
Obama administration officials knew about most of these difficulties before the Energy Department agreed in September 2010 to partly guarantee a second major loan to Nevada Geothermal, worth $98.5 million.
Nevada Geothermal executives, meanwhile, are working to renegotiate their $91 million, high-interest loan to avoid a default, which could come as soon as December. They have teamed up with Ormat to drill at a new Nevada site, and hope perhaps to do future drilling at the Blue Mountain site to increase the energy output there.
MacMurray D. Whale, an engineer and research analyst at Cormark Securities, wrote a report last week on Nevada Geothermal warning that ''looming default overshadows financial results.''
''If there is not sufficient cash flow to service that debt, then the loan guarantee will be invoked,'' Mr. Whale said.
Mr. Fairbank, the chief executive, said such speculation was reckless and unwarranted.
No matter what happens, he said, the geothermal plant already produces enough revenue to pay back the government-guaranteed loan, which has first standing among the creditors. Furthermore, the company's revenue is growing.
''These aren't the best of times for geothermal companies, including our own,'' Mr. Fairbank said. ''But it does not mean we are not going to be here two years from now.''
Mr. Leistikow, of the Energy Department, said he was also confident that the federal investment was secure, as the loan guarantee was tied to the plant, not the parent company.
The Department of Energy distributed 28 loan guarantees, worth a total of $16 billion, before the program ended last Friday.
Some of the companies, like Poet, the ethanol company, and Abengoa, the Spanish energy technology company, are large and have healthy balance sheets. Others are smaller wind and solar businesses that generate healthy cash flows from providing power to utilities or consumers. Still, there is always the possibility of failures in industries trying to take new technologies from the laboratory to commercial scale.
Peter Hartley, an economist at Rice University, said renewable energy generally is hindered by the distance from large population centers, and cumbersome regulations that make the permitting of long transmission lines difficult. The collapse of natural gas prices over the last three years due to a boom in shale drilling across the country, he added, ''makes the economics of the renewables that much harder to compete.''
Online Correction: October 2, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the amount of federal grants to Nevada Geothermal as $667 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, the Democrat from Nevada who is majority leader, has promoted several geothermal projects in his state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (93%); POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (52%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%); NEVADA GEOTHERMAL POWER INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS221116 GEOTHERMAL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (52%) NEVADA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



110 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: In Debt Talks, All Tax Breaks Are Not Alike

BYLINE: By RON NIXON and ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Plenty of lawmakers are against tax breaks and so-called loopholes. Unless, of course, they personally helped create them.
The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, for instance, says he is open to ending tax breaks for special interests. But when it comes to a tax break he secured in 2008 for the owners of thoroughbred racehorses, he argues that the measure is essential for the protection of jobs in his home state of Kentucky.
Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, says he too wants to eliminate such breaks, except when it comes to beer. He is one of the main supporters of a proposal that would cut taxes for small beer makers like the Samuel Adams Brewery in Boston.
And Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who leads the House Budget Committee, has privately assured one beer industry group that he would support a second proposed tax break for brewers, even as he has distanced himself publicly from the measure, the beer group's chief operating officer said in an interview. 
The disconnect between the lawmakers' words and deeds reflects the political hurdles that Congress and the White House face as they look to cut at least $1.2 trillion from the national debt.
Talk of cutting tax breaks to raise money and reduce the debt has become a mantra in Washington, but it threatens sacred ground: such breaks are a favorite tool among both Republicans and Democrats to reward supporters and economic interests in their home states.
The 71,000-page tax code has become loaded with dozens of obscure but economically valuable tax breaks. Nascar racetrack operators can speed up their write-offs for improvements to their facilities; makers of toy wooden arrows pay no excise tax; and Eskimo whaling captains get a charitable deduction of up to $10,000 for hunting blubber.
Multibillion-dollar operations like oil refineries, Hollywood productions and hedge funds have all profited. And there is little sign that the lawmakers who helped write the breaks into the tax code are willing to back away from them.
Whether any of them are scrubbed from the books may ultimately prove how serious Congress is about reducing the debt, and how adept powerful lobbies are at guarding their benefits, political analysts and tax experts say.
''These special interests are getting carve-outs from Congress, and both sides -- Republicans and Democrats -- are guilty of picking their favorite interests to support,'' said Jason J. Fichtner, an economist who studies tax policy at George Mason University.
Tax breaks for industries both large and small add up to an estimated $123 billion a year -- money that opponents see as lost revenue in austere times.
One of the few members of Congress willing to talk about specific breaks that could be abolished is Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma.
He released a 626-page report in June that included a section on what he considered to be dozens of needless tax breaks that were ''little more than corporate welfare,'' like vacation home deductions and special deals for the makers of fishing tackle boxes. He also ridiculed a bevy of loose guidelines that have allowed business deductions for cat food, toupees and breast implants for exotic dancers.
In contrast, President Obama has focused on a handful of tax breaks that are considered symbolically powerful, including credits for oil production and an accelerated depreciation for corporate jets.
''Do we keep tax loopholes for oil companies, or do we put teachers back to work?'' Mr. Obama asked in a speech in the White House Rose Garden in September.
But members of Mr. Obama's own party have backed many of the breaks. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York was a leading proponent of the Nascar benefit, which helped a track in upstate New York; Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon helped push through the break for toy wooden arrow makers, which also benefited a manufacturer back home; and Mr. Kerry, who serves on the special Congressional committee that is trying to reduce the debt, has been a main driver behind the beer bill.
Republicans, who have taken a hard line against raising taxes, say that eliminating a tax break is the same as a tax increase, and they do not want to risk putting people out of work or slowing economic growth by ending benefits that they believe are helping certain industries get by.
This month, House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said that ''tax reform should include closing loopholes -- not for purposes of bringing more money to the government, but because it's the right thing to do.'' But he did not offer any specifics, and he stressed that answers to the nation's debt problems lie in cutting spending, not raising tax revenues.
''Tax increases destroy jobs,'' he said.
Still, in the face of political pressure, Mr. Boehner and other Republican leaders have tempered their support, at least publicly, for some tax breaks that they once supported.
Mr. Boehner, along with fellow House leaders like Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California and Mr. Ryan, who is the party's leading crusader for spending cuts, were co-sponsors of a 2009 version of the beer tax break bill, which has never passed. Known as the Brewer's Employment and Excise Relief, or BEER Act, it would halve the excise taxes on the first 60,000 barrels of beer for small brewers.
Steve Hindy, owner of Brooklyn Brewery, said his company stood to save about $400,000 a year if the tax break was approved.
''The tax break would boost our financial situation and allow us to further expand our business,'' he said. ''We would be able to create more jobs.''
But the bill has stalled, and none of the four Republican leaders are now sponsoring it. But Bob Pease, chief operating officer of the beer industry group, the Brewers Association, in Boulder, Colo., said that Mr. Ryan's staff had assured the organization in a private meeting that he would continue to support the bill.
Mr. Ryan's spokesman, Kevin Seifert, said that the congressman had no plans to sponsor the beer tax break, but he did not address the Brewers Association's assertion about Mr. Ryan's private support. Mr. Ryan supports ''letting individuals and entrepreneurs keep more of their hard-earned money,'' Mr. Seifert said.
The maneuvering over the beer tax highlights the difficulties for lawmakers who have supported tax breaks while also calling for their end.
This summer, Senator McConnell objected to discussing tax breaks unless it was as part of a debate to overhaul of the tax code.
At the same time, he continues to defend the 2008 break he wrangled for the owners of thoroughbred racehorses. That measure allows the owners to accelerate the depreciation of their horses -- something Mr. McConnell says he considers vital to an industry that employs about 50,000 people in Kentucky and contributes billions to the state's economy.
Mr. McConnell's spokesman, Don Stewart, said the senator continued to support the benefit as a matter of fairness, saying that it brings ''horses in line with all other depreciation rather than creating a new loophole.''
Horse owners also benefited from another a tax provision that had the support of Mr. McConnell.
The National Thoroughbred Racing Association told its members in a Web video that the 2010 break would allow them to write off not only the cost of newly purchased horses, but other farm equipment used to raise them.
''Clearly,'' Joe Bacigalupo, an executive with the horse-racing group said in the video, ''2011 is a great year to invest.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about tax breaks supported by members of Congress misstated the name of a bill in 2009 that would have lowered the excise taxes for small beer brewers. It was the Brewers Excise and Economic Relief Act of 2009 -- not the Beer Employment and Excise Act, which is the 2011 version of the bill. The article also referred incorrectly to legislation cited in a Web video in which the National Thoroughbred Racing Association told its members about a tax break related to horses and farm equipment. The video referred to provisions in several stimulus bills, including the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010. But it did not mention a provision of a farm bill that Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, pushed in 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A tax break for beer makers has stalled in Congress. The measure would benefit Brooklyn Brewery, said Steve Hindy, the owner.
 Brooklyn Brewery in Williamsburg says the tax break's savings would allow it to expand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) GRAPHICS: Singular Tax Breaks: The government creates tax breaks for a variety of reasons. Some are to stimulate research and development. Other provisions correct inequities in the tax code. But some breaks have very narrow purposes or seem to have been created for no other reason than to increase one industry's profit. The following items are from the Dec. 15, 2010, report on tax breaks by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. (Source: Joint Committee on Taxation) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BREWERIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HORSE RACING (76%); HORSES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WHALING (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); NASCAR RACING (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: SAMUEL ADAMS BREWERY CO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (72%); TOM COBURN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



111 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Are Killing Us

BYLINE: By CRAIG E. POLLACK and JULIA F. LYNCH. 
Craig E. Pollack is an assistant professor of internal medicine at Johns Hopkins. Julia F. Lynch is an associate professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania.

 BODY:
AFTER slowing down in the first half of the year, the rate of homes entering foreclosure is rising again. First-time default notices were served on 78,000 homes in August, a 33 percent increase from July. A $1 billion federal program to help jobless and underemployed homeowners ended Friday. Foreclosure notices were filed against a record 2.9 million properties last year, and an additional 1.2 million in the first half of this year. 
Foreclosure is not just a metaphorical epidemic, but a bona fide public health crisis. When breadwinners become ill, they miss work, lose their jobs, face daunting medical bills -- and have trouble making mortgage payments as a result.
But that is only part of the story. A growing body of research shows that foreclosure itself harms the health of families and communities. In our 2008 survey of 250 people undergoing foreclosure in the Philadelphia area, 32 percent reported missing doctor's appointments and 48 percent said they let prescriptions go unfilled, significantly higher rates than others in their community. A paper released last month by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that people living in high-foreclosure areas in New Jersey, Arizona, California and Florida were significantly more likely than those in less hard-hit neighborhoods to be hospitalized for conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure and heart failure.
More than one-third of homeowners in our study had symptoms of major depression. The N.B.E.R. study found significantly more suicide attempts in high-foreclosure neighborhoods. For every 100 foreclosures, it found a 12 percent increase in anxiety-related emergency-room visits and hospitalizations by adults under 50. Losing a home disrupts social ties to neighbors, schools, jobs and health care providers -- ties that under better circumstances promote good health. Neighborhoods suffer, not just homeowners.
Most programs to stem the tide of foreclosures rely on mortgage counselors at nonprofit groups supported by federal grants, who work closely with homeowners and banks to try to find a financial resolution.
These counselors have become, of necessity, crisis counselors -- in a national survey of 395 mortgage counselors we conducted in January, 37 percent said they had worked with at least one homeowner in the past month who was considering suicide -- but they need to be trained to quickly and efficiently screen for illnesses like depression. In fact, health care should be part of a comprehensive approach to foreclosure prevention; for example, mental health caseworkers should be embedded in mortgage counseling agencies.
Screening and treatment may actually help some families keep their homes. Studies of unemployed people have shown that treating depression can improve the chances of landing a new job. Such treatment might also help homeowners undertake the daunting documentation and financial planning that foreclosure prevention programs demand.
In a time of fiscal strain and rising need, where will the money come from? For one thing, the settlement negotiations with the financial services industry over mortgage fraud and abuse should include money for health care. Millions of Americans are locked into mortgages they can't afford. If we can't help them stay in their homes, the least we can do is help them stay alive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FAMILY (75%); EPIDEMICS (75%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); SUICIDE (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); HEART DISEASE (65%); HYPERTENSION (65%); DIABETES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



112 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: The University of Wherever

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
FOR more than a decade educators have been expecting the Internet to transform that bastion of tradition and authority, the university. Digital utopians have envisioned a world of virtual campuses and ''distributed'' learning. They imagine a business model in which online courses are consumer-rated like products on Amazon, tuition is set by auction services like eBay, and students are judged not by grades but by skills they have mastered, like levels of a videogame. Presumably, for the Friday kegger you go to the Genius Bar.
It's true that online education has proliferated, from community colleges to the free OpenCourseWare lecture videos offered by M.I.T. (The New York Times Company is in the game, too, with its Knowledge Network.) But the Internet has so far scarcely disturbed the traditional practice or the economics at the high end, the great schools that are one of the few remaining advantages America has in a competitive world. Our top-rated universities and colleges have no want of customers willing to pay handsomely for the kind of education their parents got; thus elite schools have little incentive to dilute the value of the credentials they award. 
Two recent events at Stanford University suggest that the day is growing nearer when quality higher education confronts the technological disruptions that have already upended the music and book industries, humbled enterprises from Kodak to the Postal Service (not to mention the newspaper business), and helped destabilize despots across the Middle East.
One development is a competition among prestige universities to open a branch campus in applied sciences in New York City. This is Mayor Michael Bloomberg's attempt to create a locus of entrepreneurial education that would mate with venture capital to spawn new enterprises and enrich the city's economy. Stanford, which has provided much of the info-tech Viagra for Silicon Valley, and Cornell, a biotechnology powerhouse, appear to be the main rivals.
But more interesting than the contest between Stanford and Cornell is the one between Stanford and Stanford.
The Stanford bid for a New York campus is a bet on the value of place. The premise is that Stanford can repeat the success it achieved by marrying itself to the Silicon Valley marketplace. The school's proposal (unsubtly titled ''Silicon Valley II'') envisions a bricks-and-mortar residential campus on an island in the East River, built around a community of 100 faculty members and 2,200 students and strategically situated to catalyze new businesses in the city.
Meanwhile, one of Stanford's most inventive professors, Sebastian Thrun, is making an alternative claim on the future. Thrun, a German-born and largely self-taught expert in robotics, is famous for leading the team that built Google's self-driving car. He is offering his ''Introduction to Artificial Intelligence'' course online and free of charge. His remote students will get the same lectures as students paying $50,000 a year, the same assignments, the same exams and, if they pass, a ''statement of accomplishment'' (though not Stanford credit). When The Times wrote about this last month, 58,000 students had signed up for the course. After the article, enrollment leapt to 130,000, from across the globe.
Thrun's ultimate mission is a virtual university in which the best professors broadcast their lectures to tens of thousands of students. Testing, peer interaction and grading would happen online; a cadre of teaching assistants would provide some human supervision; and the price would be within reach of almost anyone. ''Literally, we can probably get the same quality of education I teach in class for about 1 to 2 percent of the cost,'' Thrun told me.
The traditional university, in his view, serves a fortunate few, inefficiently, with a business model built on exclusivity. ''I'm not at all against the on-campus experience,'' he said. ''I love it. It's great. It has a lot of things which cannot be replaced by anything online. But it's also insanely uneconomical.''
Thrun acknowledges that there are still serious quality-control problems to be licked. How do you keep an invisible student from cheating? How do you even know who is sitting at that remote keyboard? Will the education really be as compelling -- and will it last? Thrun believes there are technological answers to all of these questions, some of them being worked out already by other online frontiersmen.
''If we can solve this,'' he said, ''I think it will disrupt all of higher education.''
Disrupt is right. It would be an earthquake for the majority of colleges that depend on tuition income rather than big endowments and research grants. Many could go the way of local newspapers. There would be huge audiences and paychecks for superstar teachers, but dimmer prospects for those who are less charismatic.
It's ironic -- or maybe just fitting -- that this is playing out at Stanford, which has served as midwife to many disruptive technologies. By forging a symbiotic relationship with venture capital and teaching students how to navigate markets, Stanford claims to have spawned an estimated 5,000 businesses. This is a campus where grad school applicants are routinely asked if they have done a startup, and some professors have gotten very, very rich.
John Hennessy, Stanford's president, gave the university's blessing to Thrun's experiment, which he calls ''an initial demonstration,'' but he is cautious about the grander dream of a digitized university. He can imagine a virtual campus for some specialized programs and continuing education, and thinks the power of distributed learning can be incorporated in undergraduate education -- for example, supplanting the large lecture that is often filled with students paying more attention to their laptops. He endorses online teaching as a way to educate students, in the developing world or our own, who cannot hope for the full campus experience.
But Hennessy is a passionate advocate for an actual campus, especially in undergraduate education. There is nothing quite like the give and take of a live community to hone critical thinking, writing and public speaking skills, he says. And it's not at all clear that online students learn the most important lesson of all: how to keep learning.
As The Times's Matt Richtel recently reported, there is remarkably little data showing that technology-centric schooling improves basic learning. It is quite possible that the infatuation with technology has diverted money from things known to work -- training better teachers, giving kids more time in school.
THE Stanford president is hardly a technophobe. Hennessy came up through computer engineering, used his sabbatical to start a successful microprocessor company, and sits on the boards of Google and Cisco Systems.
''In the same way that a lot of things go into the cost of a newspaper that have nothing to do with the quality of the reporting -- the cost of newsprint and delivery -- we should ask the same thing about universities,'' Hennessy told me. ''When is the infrastructure of the university particularly valuable -- as it is, I believe, for an undergraduate residential experience -- and when is it secondary to the learning process?''
But, he notes, ''One has to think about the sustainability of all these things. In the end, the content providers have to get paid.''
I see a larger point, familiar to all of us who have lived through digital-age disorder. There are disrupters, like Sebastian Thrun, or Napster, or the tweeting rebels in Tahrir Square. And there are adapters, like John Hennessy, or iTunes, or the novice statesmen trying to build a new Egypt. Progress depends on both.
Who could be against an experiment that promises the treasure of education to a vast, underserved world? But we should be careful, in our idealism, not to diminish something that is already a wonder of the world.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); COMPUTER GAMES (71%); AUCTIONS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (60%); ROBOTICS (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



113 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Holding China To Account

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The dire state of the world economy reflects destructive actions on the part of many players. Still, the fact that so many have behaved badly shouldn't stop us from holding individual bad actors to account.
And that's what Senate leaders will be doing this week, as they take up legislation that would threaten sanctions against China and other currency manipulators.
Respectable opinion is aghast. But respectable opinion has been consistently wrong lately, and the currency issue is no exception. 
Ask yourself: Why is it so hard to restore full employment? It's true that the housing bubble has popped, and consumers are saving more than they did a few years ago. But once upon a time America was able to achieve full employment without a housing bubble and with savings rates even higher than we have now. What changed?
The answer is that we used to run much smaller trade deficits. A return to economic health would look much more achievable if we weren't spending $500 billion more each year on imported goods and services than foreigners spent on our exports.
To get our trade deficit down, however, we need to make American products more competitive, which in practice means that we need the dollar's value to fall in terms of other currencies. Yes, some people will shriek about ''debasing'' the dollar. But sensible policy makers have long known that sometimes a weaker currency means a stronger economy, and have acted on that knowledge. Switzerland, for example, has intervened massively to keep the franc from getting too strong against the euro. Israel has intervened even more forcefully to weaken the shekel.
The United States, given its special global role, can't and shouldn't be equally aggressive. But given our economy's desperate need for more jobs, a weaker dollar is very much in our national interest -- and we can and should take action against countries that are keeping their currencies undervalued, and thereby standing in the way of a much-needed decline in our trade deficit.
That, above all, means China. And none of the arguments against holding China accountable can stand serious scrutiny.
Some observers question whether we really know that China's currency is undervalued. But they're kidding, right? The flip side of the manipulation that keeps China's currency undervalued is the accumulation of dollar reserves -- and those reserves now amount to a cool $3.2 trillion.
Others warn of bad consequences if the Chinese stop buying United States bonds. But our problem right now is precisely that too many people want to park their money in American debt instead of buying goods and services -- which is why the interest rate on long-term U.S. bonds is only 2 percent.
Yet another objection is the claim that Chinese products don't really compete with U.S.-produced goods. The rebuttal is fairly technical; let me just say that those making this argument both overstate the case and fail to take the indirect effects of Chinese currency policy into account.
In the last few days a new objection to action on the China issue has surfaced: right-wing pressure groups, notably the influential Club for Growth, oppose tariffs on Chinese goods because, you guessed it, they're a form of taxation -- and we must never, ever raise taxes under any circumstances. All I can say is that Democrats should welcome this demonstration that antitax fanaticism has reached the point where it trumps standing up for our national interests.
To be fair, there are some arguments against action on China that would carry some weight if the times were different. One is the undoubted fact that inflation in China, which is raising labor costs in particular, is gradually eliminating that nation's currency undervaluation. The operative word, however, is ''gradually'': something that brings the United States trade deficit down over four or five years isn't good enough when unemployment is at disastrous levels right now.
And the reality of the unemployment disaster is also my answer to those who warn that getting tough with China might unleash a trade war or damage world commercial diplomacy. Those are real risks, although I think they're exaggerated. But they need to be set against the fact -- not the mere possibility -- that high unemployment is inflicting tremendous cumulative damage as we speak.
Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said it clearly last week: unemployment is a ''national crisis,'' with so many workers now among the long-term unemployed that the economy is at risk of suffering long-run as well as short-run damage.
And we can't afford to neglect any important means of alleviating that national crisis. Holding China accountable won't solve our economic problems on its own, but it can contribute to a solution -- and it's an action that's long overdue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); EURO (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



114 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Say No to the Keystone XL: There are better ways to create jobs, without endangering the environment

 BODY:
Unless good sense intervenes, it looks increasingly likely that the State Department will approve the Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry a coarse, acidic crude oil from northern Alberta in Canada to refineries on the Gulf Coast of Texas. That would be a mistake. 
In August, the State Department, which has authority because the pipeline crosses an international boundary, released its final environmental impact statement on the project. It found that the Keystone XL would have ''no significant impact'' on land and water resources along its route. We, and many others, are skeptical.
An existing pipeline carrying tar sands oil -- owned by TransCanada, the Keystone XL's operator -- was forced to shut down for repairs after springing two leaks last May in North Dakota and Kansas. That is one reason why Dave Heineman, Nebraska's Republican governor, has asked that the new pipeline be rerouted. He fears a spill could pollute the Ogallala Aquifer, a crucial water source beneath the Great Plains.
Unfortunately, the State Department appears to be more persuaded by proponents who claim that the pipeline will help reduce America's dependence on oil from politically troubled sources in the Middle East. We are skeptical about that, too.
What pipeline advocates -- including big-oil lobbyists and House Republicans who have tried to force an early, favorable decision -- fail to mention is that much of the tar sands oil that would be refined on the Gulf Coast is destined for export. Six companies have already contracted for three-quarters of the oil. Five are foreign, and the business model of the one American company -- Valero -- is geared toward export.
The report also fails to acknowledge that while greenhouse gas emissions caused by tar sands production have declined over the last two decades, the extraction and production of tar sands oil still causes far more emissions than conventional crude.
We have considerable sympathy for one argument: that construction of the pipeline would bring jobs at a time of great economic uncertainty. TransCanada has said the 2,000-mile line would create 20,000 jobs in the United States. The State Department concludes that the real number may be closer to 6,000 jobs.
Whichever estimate is right, it should be clear, from many studies, that the best hope for long-term job creation will come from the development of renewable and alternative energy sources. Some of Keystone's most vocal supporters are determined to slash government support for new companies developing clean-energy technologies.
Adding it all up, we do not think that the benefit from Keystone XL outweighs the certain damages and potential risks: the stripping of the Canadian boreal forest, the further carbon-loading of the atmosphere, and the threat to the Midwest's water supplies.
There is also the larger question of whether this country should keep conducting business as usual -- that is, succumbing to the status quo of politics and big oil -- or whether it will seriously grapple with the reality of climate change. We again urge Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to say no to the Keystone XL.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); WATER QUALITY (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%)

PERSON: DAVE HEINEMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



115 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IMMIGRATION UPENDED THE YO-YO EFFECT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2659 words

HEADLINE: Crossing Over, and Over

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
AGUA PRIETA, Mexico -- ''My wife, my son -- I have to get back to them,'' Daniel kept telling himself, from the moment he was arrested in Seattle for driving with an expired license, all the way through the deportation proceeding that delivered him to Mexico in June.
Nothing would deter him from crossing the border again. He had left his hometown at 24, he said. Twelve years later, he spoke nearly fluent English and had an American son, a wife and three brothers in the United States. ''I'll keep trying,'' he said, ''until I'll get there.''
This is increasingly the profile of illegal immigration today. Migrant shelters along the Mexican border are filled not with newcomers looking for a better life, but with seasoned crossers: older men and women, often deportees, braving ever-greater risks to get back to their families in the United States -- the country they consider home. 
They present an enormous challenge to American policy makers, because they continue to head north despite obstacles more severe than at any time in recent history. It is not just that the American economy has little to offer; the border itself is far more threatening. On one side, fences have grown and American agents have multiplied; on the other, criminals haunt the journey at every turn.
And yet, while these factors -- and better opportunities at home -- have cut illegal immigration from Mexico to its lowest level in decades, they are not enough to scare off a sizable, determined cadre.
''We have it boiled down to the hardest lot,'' said Christopher Sabatini, senior director for policy at the Council of the Americas.
Indeed, 56 percent of apprehensions at the Mexican border in 2010 involved people who had been caught previously, up from 44 percent in 2005. A growing percentage of deportees in recent years have also been deported before, according to Department of Homeland Security figures.
For the Obama administration, these repeat offenders have become a high priority. Prosecutions for illegal re-entry have jumped by more than two-thirds since 2008. Officials say it is now the most prosecuted federal felony.
President Obama has already deported around 1.1 million immigrants -- more than any president since Dwight D. Eisenhower -- and officials say the numbers will not decline. But at a time when the dynamics of immigration are changing, experts and advocates on all sides are increasingly asking if the approach, which has defined immigration policy since 9/11, still makes sense.
Deportation is expensive, costing the government at least $12,500 per person, and it often does not work: between October 2008 and July 22 of this year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement spent $2.25 billion sending back 180,229 people who had been deported before and come back anyway. Many more have returned and stayed hidden.
Some groups favoring reduced immigration say that making life harder for illegal immigrants in this country would be far more efficient. They argue that along with eliminating work opportunities by requiring employers to verify the reported immigration status of new hires, Congress should also prohibit illegal immigrants from opening bank accounts, or even obtaining library cards.
''You'd reduce the number of people who keep coming back again and again,'' said Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. The alternative, says Doris Meissner, the country's top immigration official in the mid-1990s, is to accept that illegal immigrants like Daniel ''are people with fundamental ties to the United States, not where they came from.''
''Our societies are so deeply connected,'' Ms. Meissner said, referring primarily to the United States and Mexico, the main source of illegal immigrants. ''And that is not reflected at all in policy.''
The administration acknowledges that immigrants like Daniel are rooted in the United States and typically have otherwise clean criminal records. But under its new plan introduced in August -- suspending deportations for pending low-priority cases, including immigrants brought to the United States as children -- repeat crossers are singled out for removal alongside ''serious felons,'' ''known gang members'' and ''individuals who pose a clear risk to national security.''
Administration officials say they are trying to break the ''yo-yo effect'' of people bouncing back, as mandated by congress when it toughened laws related to illegal re-entry in the 1990s.
But some experts argue that this commingling actually undermines security. After a decade of record deportations, critics argue, it has become even harder to separate the two groups that now define the border: professional criminals and experienced migrants motivated by family ties in the United States.
''If you think drug dealers and terrorists are much more dangerous than maids and gardeners, then we should get as many visas as possible to those people, so we can focus on the real threat,'' said David Shirk, director of the Transborder Institute at the University of San Diego. ''Widening the gates would strengthen the walls.''
Crime and the Border
The border crossers pouring into Arizona a decade or two ago were more numerous, but less likely to be threatening. David Jimarez, a Border Patrol agent with years of experience south of Tucson, recalled that even when migrants outnumbered American authorities by 25 to 1, they did not resist. ''They would just sit down and wait for us,'' he said.
Over the past few years, the mix has changed, with more drug smugglers and other criminals among the dwindling, but still substantial, ranks of migrants.
The impacts are far-reaching. In northern Mexico, less immigration means less business. Border towns like Agua Prieta, long known as a departure point, have gone from bustling to windblown. Taxis that ferried migrants to the mountains now gather dust. Restaurants and hotels, like the sunflower-themed Girasol downtown, are practically empty. On one recent afternoon, only 3 of the 50 rooms were occupied.
''In 2000, we were full every day,'' said Alejandro Rocha, the hotel's manager.
New research from the University of California, San Diego, shows that crime is now the top concern for Mexicans thinking of heading north. As fear keeps many migrants home, many experienced border guides, or coyotes, have given up illegal migration for other jobs.
In Tijuana, across the border from San Diego, one well-known coyote is now selling tires. In Nogales, the largest Mexican city bordering Arizona, power has shifted to tattooed young men with expensive binoculars along the border fence, while here in Agua Prieta -- where Mexican officials say traffic is one-thirthieth of what it once was -- the only way to get across is to deal with gangs that sometimes push migrants to carry drugs.
It is even worse in Matamoros, across from Brownsville, Tex. Just standing at the border fence brings out drug cartel enforcers demanding $300 for the right to pass. Migrants and the organizations that assist them say cartel lieutenants roam the shelters, looking for deportees willing to work as lookouts, earning $400 a week until they have enough to pay for passage north.
''I was thinking about doing it, too,'' said Daniel, looking down. ''But then I thought about my family.''
American law enforcement officials say the matrix of drugs, migration and violence has become more visible at the border and along the trails and roads heading north, where more of the immigrants being caught carry drugs or guns -- making them more likely to flee, resist arrest or commit other crimes.
''There's less traffic, but traffic that's there is more threatening,'' Mr. Jimarez, the border agent, said.
Larry Dever, the sheriff of Cochise County, Ariz., which sits north of Agua Prieta, agreed: ''The guys smuggling people and narcotics now are more sinister.''
His county, 6,169 square miles of scrub brush, ranches and tiny towns in the state's southeast corner, has been an established crossing corridor since the mid-1990s. Since 2008, the police there have tracked every crime linked to illegal immigrants, in part because state and federal officials frequently requested data, treating the county as a bellwether of border security.
Indeed, when a Cochise rancher named Robert Krentz was killed in March 2010 after radioing to his brother that he was going to help a suspected illegal immigrant, the county quickly became a flash point for a larger debate that ultimately led to SB 1070, the polarizing Arizona bill giving the police more responsibility for cracking down on illegal immigrants.
Yet, crime involving illegal immigrants is relatively rare (5 percent of all local crime, Sheriff Dever said). Mostly it consists of burglaries involving stolen food. And, public records show, in 11 of the 18 violent crimes linked to illegal immigrants over 18 months, immigrants were both the victims and attackers.
This is not the portrait given by Republican border governors, including Rick Perry of Texas, a presidential candidate who recently said that ''it is not safe on that border.'' But while Mexican drug cartels have increased their presence from Tucson to New York -- sometimes engaging in brutal violence after entering the country illegally -- Americans living near the border are generally safe.
A USA Today analysis of Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and California in July found that crime within 100 miles of the border is below both the national average and the average for each of those states -- and has been declining for years. Several other independent researchers have come to the same conclusion.
But the border is not safe for people crossing or patrolling it. The number of immigrants found dead in the Arizona desert, from all causes, has failed to decline as fast as illegal immigration has, while assaults on Border Patrol agents grew by 41 percent from 2006 to 2010, almost entirely because of an increase in attacks with rocks. The heightened risks have stimulated a debate: Has the more aggressive approach -- bigger fences, more agents and deportations -- contributed to, or diminished, the danger?
Sheriff Dever, lionized as an ''illegal immigration warrior'' by immigration opponents, says that increased enforcement has made Americans safer and should continue until his neighbors tell him they are no longer afraid.
But some immigration advocates contend that the government's approach is too broad to be effective. ''We have to really separate out the guy who is coming to make a living with his family from the terrorist or the drug dealer,'' said Peter Siavelis, an editor of ''Getting Immigration Right: What Every American Needs to Know.''
Home Is Where the Children Are
Deportations have muddled that delineation. In a recent line of deportees piling off a bus on the San Diego side of a metal gate leading to Tijuana, all were equal: the criminal in prison garb with the wispy goatee; the mother averting her eyes; and longtime residents like Alberto Alvarez, 36, a janitor and father of five who said he was picked up for driving without a license.
''Look, I've been in the U.S. 18 years,'' he said, slinging a backpack over his Izod shirt. ''Right now, my children are alone, my wife is alone caring for the kids by herself -- they've separated us.''
During the immigration wave that peaked around a decade ago, deportations often meant something different: many deportees had not been in the United States for long; they were going home.
But now that there are fewer new arrivals, the concept of home is changing. Of the roughly 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the United States, 48 percent arrived before 2000. For the 6.5 million Mexicans in the United States illegally, that figure is even higher -- 55 percent, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. There are now also 4.5 million American-born children of unauthorized immigrant parents.
Experts on both sides of the debate say this large group of rooted immigrants presents the nation with a fundamental choice: Either make life in the United States so difficult for illegal immigrants that they leave on their own, or allow immigrants who pose no threat to public safety to remain with their families legally, though not necessarily as citizens.
Steven A. Camarota, a demographer at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, said the government should revoke automatic citizenship for children born to illegal immigrants, and seize assets from deported illegal immigrants so they have fewer incentives to return.
President Obama, having made no progress on getting his legalization plan through Congress, has instead been trying to make enforcement more surgical. Under the new guidelines, officials will use ''prosecutorial discretion'' to review the current docket of 300,000 deportation cases, suspending expulsions for a range of immigrants.
Several factors prompt ''particular care and consideration'' for a reprieve, including whether the person has been in the United States since childhood, or is pregnant, seriously ill, a member of the military or a minor, according to a June memo that initiated the change.
The issue of ''whether the person has a U.S. citizen or permanent resident spouse, child or parent'' appears in the memo's secondary list of factors to consider. But it is not clear how broadly leniency will be applied. Repeat crossers are given a special black mark, and the administration has already deported hundreds of thousands of minor offenders, despite claiming to focus on ''the worst of the worst.''
Several Democratic governors and law enforcement officials are particularly angry about Secure Communities, a program to run the fingerprints of anyone booked by the police to check for federal immigration violations. A large proportion of those deported through this process -- 79 percent, according to a recent report by the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University -- were low-level offenders, often arrested for traffic violations.
Administration officials dispute that, saying the ratio of serious criminals is increasing, and that ultimately they must enforce immigration law against all violators. They have mandated that the program be used nationwide by 2013.
Mexico's border cities offer a portrait of what that could mean. Nearly 950,000 Mexican immigrants have been deported since the start of fiscal 2008. And in Tijuana -- a former hub for migrants heading north, which now receives more deportees than anywhere else -- the pool of deportees preparing to cross again just keeps growing.
Maria Garcia, 27, arrived here after being deported for a traffic violation. She said she had spent six years living in Fresno, Calif., with her two Mexico-born sons, 11 and 7. She was one of many who said that without a doubt, they would find their way back to the United States.
''They can't stop us,'' she said.
The constant flow of deportees has become a growing concern for Mexican officials, who say the new arrivals are easy recruits, and victims, for drug cartels.
One former deportee was arrested this year for playing a major role in the deaths of around 200 people found in mass graves. In Tijuana, a homeless camp at the border has swollen from a cluster to a neighborhood, as deportees flow in, many carrying stories of being robbed or kidnapped by gangs who saw their American connections as a source for ransom.
Minutes after he arrived, Mr. Alvarez, the janitor, said he was worried about surviving -- ''you're playing with your life being here,'' he said. But his twin sons would turn 2 in a few weeks, and like many others, he said that no matter how he was treated in the United States, he would find his way back.
''I feel bad being here, I feel bad,'' he said. ''I've got my kids over there, my family, my whole life. Here'' -- he shook his head at the end of his first day in Tijuana -- ''no.''
Immigration Upended: Articles in this series are exploring the changing patterns of immigration between the United States and Mexico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rivera-Ramirez family was deported in July and sent to live in a part of Tijuana, Mexico, that is rife with violence. (A1)
A man beaten unconscious in Tijuana, Mexico. Drug violence and an influx of deportees who make for easy prey have made the border dangerous.
Above, the border fence in Nogales, Mexico, facing Arizona. Many who fail to cross the border end up homeless, like these migrants in Tijuana.
 Immigrants crossing from Nogales, the largest Mexican city on the Arizona border, must often deal with smugglers who may have gang ties. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) CHART: More Federal Prosecutions: In the first half of fiscal year 2011, illegal re-entry passed illegal entry as the most prosecuted federal immigration crime. (Source: Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FELONIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (91%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



116 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Others Go, But Buffett Stays on Side Of President

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS; Azam Ahmed and Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When it comes to business, everyone on Wall Street wants a piece ofWarren E. Buffett. His presidential politics, however, appear to be another matter altogether.
On Friday evening, Mr. Buffett was the host of a fund-raiser forPresident Obama at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan, typically a magnet for the who's who of finance. Democrats had bet that the star power of one of the world's richest men would draw an overflow crowd of Wall Street's elite for an affair that ran $10,000 a plate, or $35,800 for one-on-one time with Mr. Buffett.
Yet organizers had trouble drawing the biggest guns of finance. The president's campaign reserved space for 130 guests but only 116 (including Democratic staff members) attended, according to people with knowledge of the matter but not authorized to speak on the record. And there were few marquee names on the guest list. James Chanos, the hedge fund executive, was among the better known of those who attended.
The event - which included on the menu some of Mr. Buffett's favorites, like Cherry Coke and Dairy Queen ice cream - was considered a sell-out success by the Obama campaign. It easily raised more than $1.5 million for the campaign and the Democratic National Committee. 
Still, the turnout, strong but less than overwhelming, reflected the president's broader struggles in attracting big-name support from those on Wall Street, whom he referred to as ''fat cat bankers'' in 2009. One person who attended described the atmosphere as subdued and said the event seemed to attract more Buffett followers than Obama supporters.
Mr. Buffett, a major investor in many of the nation's biggest banks, remains undeterred. As others in business have moved to distance themselves from Mr. Obama, Mr. Buffett has found himself in a lonely role as the president's ambassador among the moneyed set. He is endorsing not just Mr. Obama but also a policy like the so-called Buffett rule, which would increase taxes on the rich, as well as the view that America is exiting, not re-entering, a recession.
''I have always had people disagree with me on politics,'' Mr. Buffett said in an interview. ''You can go through life and just basically opt out of that field. I don't blame anyone particularly, but I don't want to do that. If I have views I will talk about them.''
Mr. Buffett's more public embrace of Mr. Obama has cast a spotlight on this unlikely alliance between the Omaha-born son of a stockbroker turned Republican congressman and Mr. Obama, the Harvard-educated lawyer who forged his political career in Chicago.
Mr. Buffett said he first met Mr. Obama roughly six years ago, at a lunch arranged by the billionaire's daughter, Susie. The pair broke bread at Kiewit Plaza in Omaha, where Mr. Buffett's company, Berkshire Hathaway, is situated. At the time, Mr. Obama was only months into his freshman term in the Senate.
Mr. Buffett spotted a rising star, prophetically telling The Chicago Tribune in 2005 that Mr. Obama ''has as much potential as anyone I've seen to have an important impact over his lifetime on the course that America takes.''
Another presidential hopeful,Hillary Rodham Clinton, also impressed Mr. Buffett. ''I didn't think both of them would run,'' he recalled in the interview with The New York Times. During the contentious 2008 campaign, he lent his name - and wallet - to both candidates. In 2007, he headlined an event for Ms. Clinton in New York and another for Mr. Obama in Omaha.
As president, Mr. Obama has been known to tap Mr. Buffett for advice on the economy. In July 2010, during a meeting at the White House, Mr. Buffett even got a new tie. Mr. Buffett said he wore a tie that ''looked like it had gone through a lawn mower.'' Mr. Obama, noticing its condition, gave Mr. Buffett a new tie, replete with presidential seals.
A few weeks later, Mr. Buffett was back at the White House for a meeting that was also attended byBill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft and an old friend of Mr. Buffett. Mr. Obama was quick to compliment Mr. Buffett, saying he was ''looking sharper,'' according to Mr. Buffett. Mr. Buffett laughed and pointed to Mr. Gates, who was wearing the old tie. Mr. Obama went and got a new tie with presidential seals on it for Mr. Gates. ''This tie is very useful,'' Mr. Buffett said of the frayed tie he now keeps in reserve in his closet for friends who may be visiting the White House.
This summer, Mr. Obama called Mr. Buffett from his vacation on Martha's Vineyard to discuss ways to spur the economy. And after Mr. Buffett wrote an Op-Ed article for The New York Times, saying that politicians should stop ''coddling'' the ''mega-rich,'' the White House introduced plans to raise taxes for the wealthy.
Still, Mr. Buffett cautions against reading too much into the relationship. ''We are not at all close,'' he said. He estimates he has talked to Mr. Obama one-on-one just a handful of times, and no call has lasted more than about eight minutes. Mr. Buffett does not remember ever making a call to Mr. Obama. And Mr. Buffett does not personally solicit donations for the re-election campaign.
Mr. Buffett did agree to headline two fund-raisers for the president. The next one is scheduled for late October at the Chicago-area home of Byron Trott, a former Goldman Sachs executive known as ''Buffett's favorite banker.''
The fund-raisers are the Obama campaign's latest efforts to restore the president's relationship with Wall Street - once a heavy-hitting donor base. Earlier this year, Mr. Obama dined with financial executives at the opulent Upper East Side restaurant Daniel. The president also counts several bankers among his friends and fund-raisers, including Robert Wolf, the president of UBS's investment bank.
But the campaign has received a tepid response from other deep-pocketed donors on Wall Street, some of whom have shunned the president's push for regulation and his talk about lavish bonuses. The nation's biggest banks, which cut many large checks for Mr. Obama's 2008 run, are mainly on the sidelines for now.
''In the last election, people were tripping over themselves to get on the Obama bandwagon,'' said Michael J. Driscoll, a former senior trader at the Wall Street firm Bear Stearns who now teaches at Adelphi University. ''Things have changed; Wall Street is not happy being under attack by the administration.''
Republican candidates hope to lure away Wall Street's money. Last week, the Republican contenderMitt Romney, a former private equity executive, met privately with JPMorgan Chase's chief,Jamie Dimon, once a big-name supporter of Mr. Obama. Mr. Dimon has not yet endorsed any candidate. Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge fund manager who previously donated to Mr. Obama, has shifted allegiance to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Buffett said he was not surprised that Wall Street's sentiment had shifted so much against the president. ''People need to face up to the country's problems. Once what you start pointing and explaining what your part is in it, you start losing a few people,'' he said, laughing.
Still, he says he believes Mr. Obama will win the next election, and may even get some help from an improving economy, an idea that goes against the view of many in America.
''We are coming out of this one, I am virtually certain,'' Mr. Buffett said. ''I see figures on 70-some companies daily. I have a lot of information coming in and basically everything to do with home construction is as bad as it has ever been, and everything else is getting better.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In February, Warren E. Buffett was among those who received a Medal of Freedom from President Obama at the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ICE CREAM (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TAX INCREASES (50%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); WARREN BUFFETT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



117 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 3, 1990 | East and West Germany United After 45 Years

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Oct. 3, 1990, West Germany and East Germany officially became one nation after 45 years of postwar division. 

 BODY:
On Oct. 3, 1990, West Germany and East Germany officially became one nation after 45 years of postwar division. The Oct. 3 New York Times reported, "Forty-five years after it was carved up in defeat and disgrace, Germany was reunited today in a midnight celebration of pealing bells, national hymns and the jubilant blare of good old German oom-pah-pah."
Germany had been split into four zones in 1945 following the surrender of the Nazi regime to the Allied Powers. Initially, the United States, Britain, France and Soviet Union each governed one of these zones. The Allies intended to run Germany like a single country, but as the Soviet Union and the West grew apart due to ideological differences, the country was split into West Germany and East Germany.
East Germany closed its borders to the West in 1952, and in 1961, erected a wall through the city of Berlin--and in the process forming East Berlin and West Berlin--to prevent East Germans from escaping to West Germany. The wall became a symbol of the division between the free-market West and the communist East.
In the late 1980s, the Soviet Union and its Eastern Bloc countries began to crumble economically. In August 1989, communist Hungary opened its East German border, giving East Germans a new route to the West. That November, East and West Berliners began tearing down the Berlin Wall in celebration.
The fall of the Berlin Wall marked the beginning of the end of East Germany. West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl soon began negotiations with East German officials to return Germany to a single nation. The two countries signed a treaty on Aug. 31, 1990. Berlin was chosen as the capital of the new Germany, Mr. Kohl was made its chancellor, and October 3rd became a national German holiday.
Connect to Today:
Since 1990, Germany has undertaken serious financial reforms to balance its new economy. Historically a leader in European expansion and integration, Germany in recent years, according to some political observers, has become more concerned with its national political and economic affairs than the well-being of the European Union. A 2010 news analysis article in The International Herald Tribune reported, "Germany no longer seems satisfied playing the role of the gentle giant of Europe [Its] changing role, analysts say, reflects the passing of the torch between generations."
How might the attitudes of Germans toward Europe differ based on their generation and the events they witnessed? Do you think Germany, as a historic leader in cooperation and integration, has an obligation to bail out failing EU countries?
Learn more about what happened in history on October 3
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
PUB-DATE: June 28, 1919
        
Reshaping the Global Economy
        
It's All Greek to Me: Understanding the Debt Crisis in Europe
        
Western Union: Debating Benefits and Challenges of EU Membership
        
From Concrete to Memory: Scrapbooking the Berlin Wall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (84%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BAILOUTS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); NEW ECONOMY (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); EURO CRISIS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%) Berlin Wall; East Germany; European Union; Germany; Global Economics; West Germany; Historic Headlines

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (96%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



118 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: America for Sale!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: How do you fire a client that's not worth the trouble? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
Red Tape Update 1: Health Insurance Surges
Health care reform heads to the Supreme Court but the justices may not want to deal with it in an election year. The National Federation of Independent Business challenges the law's constitutionality. House Republicans try to cut off its funding. Meanwhile, the cost of health insurance has surged in the United States this year (but less so for small businesses). In response, more employers are shifting premiums to their employees. Diana Ransom lists four ways to save on health insurance. The Internal Revenue Service plans a Halloween webinar on how to report health care costs on W-2s. And before we go on, does anyone think that Tank is not guilty
The Economy: G.D.P. Is Revised Up, or Is It?
The Senate and House reach a deal to keep the government open. Suzy Khimm lists five reasons the next budget fight could be worse than the last. This is an excellent pictorial representation of the Fed's Quantitative Easing to date. A survey of economists suggests that President Obama's jobs plan would prevent a recession. A researcher warns that cuts to the Census Bureau will affect the way economists assess the economy. Gross Domestic Product is revised up, but Megan McArdle asks if these numbers can be trusted. Small-business moralehits a two-year low. Charles Kenny says big companies are the real key to growth. Meanwhile, America puts itself on sale.
Red Tape Update 2: Note to Self - Stay Competitive! 
Susan Collins says the economy needs a regulation timeout: "America's over-regulation problem is only getting worse. Right now, federal agencies are at work on more than 4,200 rules, 845 of which affect small businesses, the engine of job creation in our country. More than 100 are major rules, with an economic impact of more than $100 million each." The House Committee on Small Business starts an online forum for business owners. Federal Contractor Registration advises small businessesto (drum roll please) ... stay competitive. The government is putting together a contractor do-not-pay list. Property taxes continue to grow by state. Robert Wood warns: don't cross the I.R.S. on payroll taxes. Ever wonder why so many small businesses are C corporations? Ever wonder why Donna Summer is among the 2012 nominees for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame?
This Week's Data: The Housing Market Is Terrific (for Some)
The stock market has its worst quarter since 2008. Weekly unemployment claims fall to April levels. Tony Bennett is No. 1 at 85. The A.T.A. Truck Tonnage Index edged 0.2 percent lower in August. Hotels are increasing rates 3 percent globally. Consumer confidenceremains unchanged. August new home sales declinedslightly. Pending home sales declined in August but remain above a year ago. The housing market is terrific (if you have money). Mark Perry reports a weekly staffing index high. Durable goods orders fall, but there are hopeful signs too.
Around the States: Manufacturing Is Improving
Chicago (pdf) activity weakened but manufacturing in Kansas City (pdf), Texas and the Midwest (pdf) all increased in August. In fact, the manufacturing sector outlook improved in 61 major metros. However, small-business owners in Odenton, Md., suffered a lost four years. Chip makers are investing big in New York. Ken Walker offers some great tips on flying off the beaten path, and The Economist has a few laundry tips for business travelers. Half of Ohio's small businesses don't have a Web site.
Your People: Wicked Success
A new book claims that wicked success can be found in every woman. A Kauffman Foundation report says there's untapped potential for expanding women's entrepreneurship (pdf) and a couple of women create a kissing crisis for Southwest Airlines. Michelle Obama goes undercover at Target. Jack Daniels shows its feminine side. Google launches the ultimate jobs killer. Adults say they've been bullied in the workplace. New Web sites are reshaping the freelancer industry. President Obama proposes letting the jobless sue for discrimination. Sears plans to sublet store space.
Technology: Amazon Gets Fired Up
Amazon's new Kindle fires up the tablet market and TechCrunch says the company just won the Android tablet wars. But the device is of limited use to small businesses. Dana Mattioli says tablets are the ultimate buying machine for retailers. A new survey finds spending for document-management activities is expected to increase or remain level during the next 12 months. Kettering University will be offering free technology training for entrepreneurs in October and November. Two floppy drives play the "Star Wars" Imperial March. Solyndra's collapse threatens clean energy subsidies. Microsoft signs a mega-patent deal with Samsung. A new tool lets companies create branded, wiki-style repair manuals. A new Web app will help find a good place to do your work in London or New York. A new printer prints on toilet paper.
Start-Up: Getting on the Google Bus
The long-awaited Startup America program opens for business. A media pioneer shares some perspective on five years of showcasing start-up communities. A start-up raises $20 million to help doctors run their businesses in the cloud. The Startup Foundation is looking for more city leaders. Google Bus seeks start-up ideas. American Express Open and a New York start-up are introducing crash courses for small businesses.
Finances: The Best Banks
The small-business lending fund closes with $4 billion distributed. Yammer nabs $17 million. Marketgrader gives us its best three banks in the country. Capital One plans to hire 500in Delaware. The Big Picture lists its 30 most influential finance resources. Gwen Moran explains how community banks are wooing customers. Nancy Grace denies a wardrobe malfunction.
Marketing: How Does Don Draper Know About Facebook?
Here's how to increase conversions with Google Website Optimizer. Web site designer Folyo.me discloses how much Web sites cost. Fred Wilson gives an interesting talk on the fragmentation of online marketing. Jeremy Winters offers a few niche marketing tips. The Small Business Geeks aim for YouTube stardom. The Noobpreneur team gives us tips for optimizing Google Places. Adrian Miller explains the importance of selling: "So before you march into the land of marketing, make certain that you have: established a well-oiled sales process; created your follow-up and touch point management program (for long-term R.O.I. on the marketing initiatives); fine-tuned your sales strategies and techniques." Facebook plans to give away $10 million to small businesses. Don Draper pitches its new Timeline. Christian Arno says that going multilingual is one of four easy ways to make the most of your blog. Heidi Cohen offers a great analysis of different blog types. Like any good leader, the inventor of Doritos goes down with his chip.
Around the World: We're Number ...
Cambodia: land of pioneer investors. John Schmitt asks which economy among the world's richest has the smallest small-business sector (can you guess?). A pig flies over London. Coke's chief executive says it's easier to do business in China than here.
Management: It's Not All About You
A consultant says it's not all about you. Ted Leonsis says businesses can add real value by ensuring customers and employees are happy. Rob Enderle shares this slideshow of the secret rules of business success (or failure). Kim Kildaze says cash-hoarding companies are looking smart: "C.E.O.'s of the world's biggest companies must feel at least a little bit of vindication these days. For months they were the source of public vitriol because they kept hoarding cash, fearing that another market crisis could flare up. Well, the market volatility has roared back, and uncertainty reigns. Except now these firms are sitting on a wad of liquid assets that they can use to fund their daily operations, in the event they can't access the markets." Here are five things your business should never pay for.
The Week Ahead: I.S.M. Index, Bernanke Testimony
The Institute for Supply Management releases its closely watched manufacturing and nonmanufacturing purchasing managers index. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks before Congress on Tuesday. Unemployment numbers come out Friday.
The Week's Bests
Excuse to Get Drunk: Neil Patel explains the benefits of partying: "People love talking shop ... when they're drunk. Have you noticed that you'll be open to talk about almost anything when you are drunk? That's what happens with most people. When they get trashed, you'll start hearing about their personal life, career and work drama. When doing so start to transition conversation towards work as this will help you understand what they do, how much power they have within their company, and if there is anything you can do to help them out. Relationships and bonding is what closes deals."
Path to Growth Chris Zook proposes the three questions that lead to profitable growth including: "What is the historic success rate of our growth investments and what do the successful ones have in common? ... You can interpret many of the outcomes of competitive battles - such as Nike versus Reebok in the period between 1990 and 2005 - as the triumph of one company that had deliberately applied a repeatable model over a competitor that had not."
Ways to Fire an Unwanted Client: Isabelle Mercier Turcotte offers the top 10 ways to fire abusive clients, including clients who can't make deadlines. How to get out? "Establish the fact that you are not able to meet deadlines, unless your client is able to meet theirs. Instead of setting a concrete date, make it contingent upon receipt of information, such as a certain number of days from the signed approval date. Don't accept any future work from this client, as his habits are not likely to change. Instead, tell him that you're experiencing a high volume of work and offer to refer him to another firm."
This Week's Question: How do you fire abusive clients?
Marks GroupTwitter

        
This Week in Small Business: Twisting Our Wealth Away
        
This Week in Small Business: Spending More on Gas but Still Stalled
        
This Week in Small Business: Uncompetitive but Very Cool
        
This Week in Small Business: A Lot of Paper Clips
        
This Week in Small Business: Watching Armageddon From an Armchair

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CENSUS (70%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



119 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Class War Games

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Economic stagnation and uncertainty about the future are creating unanticipated political alliances, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The term "class warfare," banished for many years to the far left of our political discourse, has gradually moved toward its center. President Obama, pushing for higher taxes on millionaires, now seems happy to describe himself as a warrior for the middle class. 
The term also has new valence in the economics profession. Once deployed primarily by those influenced by the Marxian tradition, the concept of class war fits neatly into the new field of conflict analysis, which often applies the tools of game theory. 
In many games, as well as wars, teams compete for prizes. Competition can include efforts to influence the rules of the game, or to simply snatch the prize and run. 
Collective conflict is hardly a new idea -- James Madison invoked it in the Federalist Papers, defining factions as citizens "united and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest, adversed to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the community." He went on to describe the primary source of factions as the "various and unequal distribution of property."

Yet for most of the late 20th century, economists focused their attention on forms of competition that took place within a very specific institutional context: voluntary exchange in markets. Questions about how individuals obtained the resources they took to market received relatively little attention. 
Milton and Rose Friedman's classic book, "Free to Choose," captured the spirit of this approach. John Roemer's much less accessible but also classic "Free to Lose," a modern revision of classical Marxian theory, deftly illustrated its limitations. 
But it was Jack Hirshleifer of the University of California, Los Angeles, an economist with no affinity for Karl Marx, who virtually created a field of conflict analysis with a collection of essays poetically titled "The Dark Side of the Force." 
In these essays, he emphasized that the pursuit of self-interest often motivates individuals to join strong groups in order to prey on weak groups. Indeed, he argued that individuals opt for voluntary exchange only if it offers them greater gains than coercive expropriation. 
Economists who have built on Professor Hirshleifer's approach include Herschel Grossman, who taught at Brown University, and Michelle Garfinkel and Sergios Skaperdas of the University of California, Irvine, authors of "The Political Economy of Conflict and Appropriation."
Modern conflict analysis remains largely preoccupied with abstract models of the emergence of social institutions. But social scientists can draw on its conceptual toolkit to explore the relationships among unexpected political alignments, economic stagnation and partisan stalemate. 
Political loyalty is likely to be determined by strategic calculations of future benefits rather than objective characteristics, like income or wealth. Such strategic calculations rely on imperfect information, including guesses about other people's choices. Uncertainty about the economic future can contribute to political inertia and a tendency to rely on allegiances that worked well in the past. 
Even small changes in our vocabulary can change perceptions. Ironically, Republican efforts to denounce tax increases for millionaires helped bring the term "class warfare" back into vogue; Warren Buffett, one of the country's most successful capitalists, has wryly warned that his class is winning (even as he supports proposals to change the tax code).
Many Americans today aren't really sure what class they belong to, but they are increasingly interested in figuring this out. The class war game is on. 

        
A Sales Tax on Wall Street Transactions
        
Of Loopholes and Potholes
        
Shared Capitalism
        
I'd Rather Be an Unlucky Ducky
        
The Best Countries for Non-Mothers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WRITERS (64%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (63%) class warfare; conflict analysis; Daily Economist; James Madison; Marxism; Milton Friedman; Nancy Folbre; Taxation; High Net Worth Individuals; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



120 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: A Slowdown in Venture-Backed I.P.O.'s

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: In the third quarter, five venture-backed companies went public -- a 64 percent drop from the period a year earlier, according to a report by Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association. Mergers and acquisitions, on the other hand, held up. 

 BODY:
For initial public offerings, market volatility has been poison.
In the third quarter, five venture-backed companies went public -- a 77 percent plunge from the second quarter, and a 64 percent drop from the period a year earlier, according to a report released on Monday by Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association. 
 The amount raised for the third quarter is the lowest amount since the fourth quarter of 2009, when the United States economy was still reeling from the financial crisis.
The report warned that I.P.O. activity might remain "at a seriously low level for the remainder of the year."
It has been a near 180 degree turn for the market. Just a few months ago, the initial offering machine seemed to be revving up for the booming technology market. Several Internet start-ups, sporting multibillion dollar valuations, were lining up to go public. 
Groupon, a popular social shopping site, and Zynga, an online gaming company, filed to go public earlier in the summer. But fortunes changed swiftly in August, with equity markets besieged by the looming threat of a European credit crisis and fears of a double-dip recession in the United States. 
The volatility has led some companies to temporarily shelve I.P.O. plans and delay their roadshows. According to Renaissance Capital, an advisory company, the global I.P.O. market recorded 55 offerings, raising $19 billion -- a 58 percent drop from the third quarter of 2010.
Still, the report offered a small silver lining.
Mergers and acquisitions, with 35 deals, held up in the quarter. The deals, valued at $6.3 billion, reflect an 8 percent increase from the second quarter of 2010.
"While the I.P.O. market screeched to a halt in the second half of the 3rd quarter, the acquisitions market continued to move forward," said Mark Heesen, president of the National Venture Capital Association. "Quality acquisitions continue to get done, which should help venture capital firms return money to limited partners and better position themselves to raise new funds."

        
DST Global, Hoping to Grow Across Asia, Puts Down Roots
        
Rearden Commerce Raises $133 Million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (96%); NEW ISSUES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); STARTUPS (73%); SOCIAL COMMERCE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (69%) Groupon; ipos; nvca; Venture Capital; Zynga; Initial Public Offerings; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; National Venture Capital Assn; Renaissance Capital Corp; Thomson Reuters Corporation; Zynga Game Network; United States; Thomson Reuters Corporation|TRI|NYSE; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Groupon; National Venture Capital Assn; Renaissance Capital Corp; Thomson Reuters Corporation; Zynga Game Network

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%) Thomson Reuters Corporation; TRI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (69%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



121 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: DealBook: Venture-Backed I.P.O.'s Slow in Third Quarter

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In the third quarter, five venture-backed companies went public - a 77 percent plunge from the second quarter, and a 64 percent drop from the same period last year. 

 BODY:
For initial public offerings, market volatility has been poison.
In the third quarter, five venture-backed companies went public - a 77 percent plunge from the second quarter, and a 64 percent drop from the period last year, according to a report, released on Friday, by Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association. The amount raised for the third quarter is the lowest amount, since the fourth quarter of 2009, when the United States economy was still reeling from the financial crisis.
Read the entire post at DealBook.

        
DealBook: In a Quiet Period, Groupon Feels the Noise
        
Yelp Hires a C.F.O. on the Road to Going Public
        
Dealbook: Zynga Files for $1 Billion I.P.O.
        
I.P.O. Talk, Demos at Tech Confab
        
Falling Valuations: Poison for Venture Capital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%) I.P.O.; IPO; Initial Public Offerings; National Venture Capital Assn; I.P.O.'s; Start-ups

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: National Venture Capital Assn

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



122 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: They Heard the Word Culture, and They Reached for Their Gun

BYLINE: PAUL SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: To one attache, the August attack on a British agency in Kabul is a reminder that while Afghanistan's future relies on many things, its culture may be its most inspirational asset. 

 BODY:
Funnily enough, I was in New York when it happened. It was a short breather after several months in Kabul - a treat for my children, whom I hadn't seen for so long. We'd been out all day - MOMA, Harlem for lunch, Yankees tickets, a cruise past the Statue of Liberty. There was a reflection on the water of the development at ground zero as we steered by. "That's why you're in Kabul?" my kids asked.
That night we ate in. They wanted to do "the New York thing" - eat Chinese takeout in white cardboard boxes. Strange, the detail of a cultural attache's life - white cardboard boxes and a conjunction of China, the United States and my Indo-British children's wacky assumptions about the world. Then, my Kabul mobile rang.
The ambassador's call pulled me from Union Square directly into that "safe room" at my office, and home, in Kabul. Three British colleagues were hemmed in by gunfire and grenades, after the largest car bomb that ravaged city had ever seen. For eight hours, I paced through the night in that Manhattan apartment. Just 36 hours later, I was pacing the scene itself, a place of educational and cultural hope reduced to a charred ruin, the remains of detonated attackers still visible.
A pile of English teaching texts smoldered on the lawn. Remnants of video equipment for a cinematography class for 50 young Afghan filmmakers lay smashed. A United Kingdom map hung diagonally from one corner nail, and there were bullet holes through my Sufi watercolors.
Two hours later, there was a memorial service on the scrap of embassy lawn for the Afghan officers who died that night. Two hundred diplomats, soldiers, drivers, cleaners and bereaved family members. One little boy, 8 or 9, had a frozen expression as he heard how his father had died, protecting the staff of the British Council, protecting culture.
What could this ever mean to him? What culture can be so worth protecting as to justify the death of a little boy's dad, that little boy's dad, the dad who, weeks later, is still dead and always will be?
The manifestos that direct international aid to Afghanistan invariably herald three motives: governance, stability and development. But there's a fourth, which is the only one that can animate the other three into a credible nationhood. It is culture. Not just singing and dancing (well yes, actually, the culture of singing and dancing, too) but the culture that will inspire the many peoples of Afghanistan to say: "This is who we are; this is who we want to be. We are no longer the construct of others. A country at a crossroads, yes; but a place where people meet, rather than where they part ways or transit."
What is happening here in Afghanistan? Essentially, diverse groups of people who share the same country are reasserting their common sense of cultural identity after centuries of ravaging invasion, ravaging intervention, and even ravaging goodwill. Over the past 30 years, external imposition and internal revolt have destroyed infrastructure, leaving Afghanistan one of the poorest, least-developed countries in the world. But in 2001, the government and people of Afghanistan started to climb back to self-reliant democratic nationhood, resisting extremist interference. They were determined to achieve stability and security.
This is not just about economic development. Reinforcing Afghanistan's cultural identity and strengthening the professional and educational capacity of its peoples are critical. Despite war and dereliction, Afghanistan remains a vibrant conflux of ethnic identities. It is a country of 30 million ordinary men, women and children who live for their families, their friends and their faith and who are proud of their vibrant ethnic diversity, their mature social identity and their astounding cultural legacy. Afghans have learned over millennium to sustain their values, despite living at the geographical nexus of other peoples' imperial ambitions. 
Militarism is only the surface wave, compared with the deeper swells of the Afghan cultural story. Of course, strengthening Afghanistan's national culture is no easy task. This is a multilingual, tribal society. The extraordinary cultural diversity that is one of this country's greatest riches can all too easily become a source of ethnic bitterness, of long-held grudges and feuds. Gender equality presents another tough challenge. Traditionally, Afghan culture is male-dominated. Making equal room for the women of Afghanistan to take their place on their nation's stage will be difficult.
Afghanistan is the child running with her kite, the young woman hurrying to work concerned for the sick parent at home, the exuberant dancers at the family wedding. Here in Afghanistan, as anywhere else, the abiding story is that politics is people; culture is people. I can think of no place where it is more important to strengthen the authenticity and potential liberation of cultural relations.
The Afghan people quietly and adamantly know that it is they who will fight and win their own battles. It is their creative voices and their legacy of meanings and understandings that will reassert the identity that is uniquely Afghan, and that will evolve their new and old, old, old Afghanistan. Reclaiming independent and defiant nationhood is the most important mission - harnessing the critical mass of cultural and community cohesion that is needed to achieve self-reliance and take back command.
Three weeks after the vicious Aug. 19 attack on the British Council in Kabul, there was another bombardment on the NATO headquarters and American Embassy. We heard the gunshots from our temporary office in the "green zone." My colleagues looked tired and sickened, not so much at the immediate danger, but at the persistent bullying of their values. But there's a stone-carved sign outside the National Museum in Kabul that states with pride: "A nation stays alive when it's culture stays alive." (Yes, that incorrect apostrophe is endearingly carved in, too.) It's something, just something, for the future life of that little boy and the memory of his father, who, like too many Afghans, put his head above the parapet to keep Afghanistan alive.

        
The More Things Change, The More They Stay The Same....
        
Kandahar More Than a Century Ago - Fictional Injuries, Real War, Realpolitik
        
Lens: Photographs From a Decade in Afghanistan
        
A Film's Clear-Eyed Look at the War in Afghanistan
        
Army Study Highlights Fears and Stress of I.E.D.'s and Amputation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); FAMILY (78%); SHOOTINGS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); FILM (69%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (64%) Afghanistan; culture; Great Britain; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Bombs and Explosives; Diplomatic Service, Embassies and Consulates; British Council; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Kabul (Afghanistan)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH COUNCIL (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%) British Council; North Atlantic Treaty Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CHINA (79%) Afghanistan; Kabul (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



123 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Addressing Some Misperceptions About Mexican Immigration

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE


HIGHLIGHT: In readers' comments, passions often obscure the nuances of illegal immigration. 

 BODY:
Reading the comments attached to my article today - looking at how today's illegal immigrants are more likely to be people who have roots and families in the United States - I was struck by something that advocates for and against expanded immigration told me while I was reporting: "This is a fact-free zone." 
In other words, the nuances of illegal immigration, no matter how you present them, are likely be ignored because the only people involved in the debate have strong emotional connections to their views -- connections unlikely to be broken by facts that do not already fit their arguments. 
Needless to say, it was a depressing thing to hear. However, I figure that there are still a few misconceptions, popping up among readers, that deserve to be identified and addressed: 
1. Illegal immigrants are all a drag on American society, or they are overwhelmingly beneficial. 
This is the black and white view that dominates. One side (represented by this commenter and this one) sees only the costs that immigrants bring. Others, like this commenter, see illegal immigrants largely as victims, hard workers limited by American xenophobia. 
The reality is more complicated. With an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States, the pool is large enough to include a little bit of everything. Yes, some immigrants are criminals, and yes, some are victims of exploitation. 
What the United States, as a country, seems to be trying to figure out is: which is dominant, the good or the bad?
This is the multibillion-dollar question. Indeed, the debate over whether illegal immigrants bring more costs than benefits is a major preoccupation for organizations all around the immigration issue. The problem - experts will privately tell you, after hours of interviews - is that many of the numbers available leave large gaps that make it impossible to clearly determine which side is right. Because such immigrants live in the shadows because of their undocumented status, reliable data -- on taxes paid, public benefits used and overall economic impact -- are hard to find.
Thus, each side pushes its own anecdotes, rarely acknowledging that there are elements of accurate concern even among those they disagree with. What gets lost? The role of the immigration system itself - which is to sift, to draw in and assimilate the most desirable immigrants, while limiting those who are likely to bring problems. 
The more advocates and politicians argue in absolute terms, the less discussion there is about how to actually build an immigration system that does a better job of separating the good (however society defines it) from the bad (again, as determined by the public). 
"The dialogue has never progressed beyond the getting-in-at-the-border conversation," said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president and co-founder of the Migration Policy Institute, an independent research group. In a lengthy interview a few weeks ago, he said he was confounded by the unwillingness to move on to a conversation about improving and upgrading immigration laws and visas. 
"It's not rocket science," he said. "Reasonable people can sit around the table and decide who goes first, second, third, and who loses out." 
2. People should just wait and go legally
This is a commonly expressed idea, mentioned by this commenter from New York. It seems to be logical: if everyone else has to be obey American laws, immigrants should, too. 
But built into this idea is a misconception about how the immigration system works. It assumes that it is, on its face, fair, efficient and accessible. The assumption seems to be that immigrants from Mexico or elsewhere are thumbing their noses at American law because they are not willing to pay a few hundred dollars and wait their turn for a year or two. 
Generally, this is not the case. Try applying at age 20 and not being approved until 40 - if you're lucky to be approved at all.
"It's not that they are not willing to wait a year or two," says David Shirk, an expert at the Transborder Institute in San Diego. "It's that it would be 10, 20 years before they could come across the border, and that's not realistic in terms of their need to eat. The lack of visa availability, especially with visas for low-skilled workers in the U.S. economy, creates an insurmountable obstacle to legal entry." 
3. "And they still don't bother to learn English."
So says Pete M from New Mexico. 
Others frequently make the same comment. Indeed, at one point when I was writing a story about immigration in Florida, a Navy veteran said much the same thing - while being interviewed in perfect English, on camera, by an Ivy-League educated daughter of Cuban immigrants. Still, the idea persists, not entirely without reason. Many immigrants, legal and illegal, can still be heard at grocery stores or anywhere else speaking the language of their home countries. Americans often assume this means the immigrants - especially those speaking Spanish -- do not speak English, and do not choose to learn it. 
But a look overall at rates of acquiring English shows that the current batch of immigrants, with and without documentation, are moving along quite quickly - faster than, say, German immigrants in the 19th Century. 
This is widely supported by an array of research, all of which happens to be well summarized in this fact sheet[PDF] from the libertarian Cato Institute. 
Of course, since I started writing this post, dozens of other comments have come in. What questions or criticism do you think needs to be addressed head on? Ask and I will try to answer. 

        
Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
        
Reader Q. and A.: Upending Immigration in Mexico
        
Money Sent Home by Mexicans Almost Stagnant in 2007
        
Tear Gas Over Borders
        
Breaking Point in Immigration Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (67%) immigration; Mexico; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; United States; americas; world

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%) Mexico; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



124 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: On Wall Street, a Protest Matures

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The message of Occupy Wall Street is clear: demonstrators are seeking accountability from corporate America for the financial crisis and the growing economic inequality gap. 

 BODY:
"I think a good deal of the bankers should be in jail."
That is what Andrew Cole, an unemployed 24-year-old graduate of Bucknell University, told me Monday morning in Zuccotti Park, the epicenter of the Occupy Wall Street movement. Mr. Cole, an articulate young man dressed in jeans, a sweatshirt and with a blue wool beanie on his head, had just arrived by bus from Madison, Wis., where he recently lost his job.
There was nothing particularly menacing or dangerous about Mr. Cole. He said he had come to participate in Occupy Wall Street because he believed in its "anticapitalist" message. "I see Wall Street as responsible for the mess we're in."
I had gone down to Zuccotti Park to see the activist movement firsthand after getting a call from the chief executive of a major bank last week, before nearly 700 people were arrested over the weekend during a demonstration on the Brooklyn Bridge.
"Is this Occupy Wall Street thing a big deal?" the C.E.O. asked me. I didn't have an answer. "We're trying to figure out how much we should be worried about all of this," he continued, clearly concerned. "Is this going to turn into a personal safety problem?"
As I wandered around the park, it was clear to me that most bankers probably don't have to worry about being in imminent personal danger. This didn't seem like a brutal group - at least not yet.
But the underlying message of Occupy Wall Street - which spread to Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles on Monday - is something the big banks and corporate America may finally have to grapple with before it actually does become dangerous.
What's the message?
At times it can be hard to discern, but, at least to me, the message was clear: the demonstrators are seeking accountability for Wall Street and corporate America for the financial crisis and the growing economic inequality gap.
And that message is a warning shot about the kind of civil unrest that may emerge - as we've seen in some European countries - if our economy continues to struggle.
"Ultimately this is about power and greed, unchecked," said Jodie Evans, the co-founder of Code Pink. She, too, said she wanted to see Wall Street executives go to jail.
Consider the protests a delayed reaction to the financial crisis that has now reached a fever pitch as the public's lust for scalp has gone unfulfilled. In Chicago on Monday, one sign read: "If corporations are people, why can't we put them in jail?"
In Zuccotti Park, several protesters were gathered around a laptop watching an online video that had just gone viral of Rosanne Barr, the comedian, recently interviewed by a newscaster.
"I am in favor of the return of the guillotine," she told a newscaster, in reference to bankers, with a straight face. "I first would allow the guilty bankers to pay, you know, the ability to pay back anything over $100 million," she said, before adding that they should go to "re-education camps and if that doesn't help, then being beheaded." She made the comments without a hint of laughter, yet the group watching around the laptop seemed to be quite amused.
Some people have suggested the Occupy Wall Street protest is a mere form of street theater, that the protesters have a myriad of grievances with no particular agenda. All of that may be true.
Edward Heath, 36, of Chicago, who is unemployed, said he was participating in the protest, in part, to ensure a more fair tax regime. When I asked about his views on Warren Buffett's "Buffett Rule," he replied: "I really can't comment because I haven't heard of him." But this group may be worth paying attention to if for no other reason than they are organized and growing in ranks. (They are beginning to link up with union organizations.) Later this week, more protests are expected to be staged around the country with the number of protesters swelling. And they are beginning to form groups to develop demands.
"We're disenfranchised," said Chris Cobb, a 41-year-old writer and designer from Brooklyn who was conducting mock interviews with a cardboard television camera and microphone emblazoned with the Fox News logo. "Wall Street is a metaphor for the financial industry," Mr. Cobb said.
Acknowledging that most financial executives now work in Midtown, he said with a laugh, "We couldn't do this on Park Avenue. Park Avenue isn't a metaphor for anything. This is a metaphor for David and Goliath." While the protesters generally didn't talk much about politics, most leaned left. Mr. Cobb said, "Like the Tea Party was about reinvigorating the right, this is about reinvigorating the left."
As evidence of the underlying politics, Ms. Evans volunteered that she had proudly disrupted the Koch brothers' Tea Party conference earlier this year in Palm Springs, Calif. "They put me in shackles," she said with a grin. "They were looking down at me with their drinks in hand."
Ms. Evans, who said she has made a career of participating in protests, said she had just flown to New York from Los Angeles to join Occupy Wall Street. How did she get here, I asked. "Virgin America," she replied with a smile. But doesn't Virgin America represent the corporations you are trying to fight? "No," she insisted. Referring to Richard Branson, she said, "He's working on creating solar planes."
As I was leaving, having spoken to scores of protesters, I noticed two of them walking over to the A.T.M. at Bank of America. As much as this group may want to get away from Wall Street and corporate America, it may be trapped by it. In the eyes of these young protesters, until they can unshackle themselves from the system - or perhaps make the system work for them - the sense of unrest is unlikely to go away anytime soon.

        
Wall Street's Long History of Protests
        
Wall Street Ties Bring Peril for Democratic Lawmaker

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); RIOTS (66%) Occupy Wall Street; Wall Street; Banking and Financial Institutions; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Unemployment; Virgin America; Wall Street (NYC); DealBook Column; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: Virgin America

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) Wall Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



125 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Last Week in Food

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A reading guide for the week that was. 

 BODY:
From the "With Friends Like These, Who Needs ..." Department: Here's a look inside the American Dietetic Association's nutrition conference/expo, where you'll hear all about how processed foods are an important source of nutrients. Argh. And: In an attempt to undermine the Food and Drug Administration's current efforts to rationalize front-of-package labeling, industry groups have devised a new campaign: change "nutrition keys" to "facts up front." And: Julia Moskin on the new United States Farmers and Ranchers Alliance, a well-funded Big Ag group that is - incredibly -- trying to position itself as an underdog in the current food climate. (Apparently it doesn't like the term "Big Ag," but when you have $11 million to spend on public relations, and your members include the American Egg Board, the National Milk Producers Federation and the National Pork Board, that's what you are.)
A 30-year side-by-side study of conventional and organic agriculture concludes that organic is better by every measure. Granted, the study is from the Rodale Institute, which has a vested interest in organic coming out on top, but the numbers are believable.
Here's a strong Atlantic piece by Michel Nischan about how Let's Move can refocus its efforts to better support small-scale, local food economies.
Here's everything you need to know about listeria and cantaloupes, which has caused what is now the deadliest food poisoning outbreak in 12 years. Also, Tyson recently recalled more than 130,000 pounds of ground beef throughout the Central and Eastern United States after possible E. coli contamination. Had enough of the Republican line "99 percent of food is safe" yet?
A version of Slow Food's $5 Challenge (which I wrote about here) is making its way to the White House. On Nov. 29, the White House chef Sam Kass will host two cooking events: the first is to cook a family meal for $10 (the typical Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program budget for family dinner), and the second is to cook "gourmet" meals for $4.50 per person (the typical American dinner budget).
Evidence is growing that financial speculators are responsible for the rising price of food. So the Commodity Futures Trading Commission just released new rules to curb excessive speculation, and the result is - you guessed it - a giveaway to speculators.
Climate change is threatening our food supply. And speaking of a threat to our food supply, two upstate New York farmers share their Hurricane Irene horror story.
Food pantries can't handle the volume they face, amid a 1-in-6 hunger rate.
The Department of Agriculture gives AquaBounty Technologies - a maker of genetically modified salmon -- $494,000 to figure out how to make its fish sterile so they won't reproduce with wild salmon. (Can you think of a better way for the department to spend 500 grand? How about 100 better ways?) Other fun fish facts: faux shark fin soup.
Reason No. 12,253 why it would be scary if Michele Bachmann became president: she might deregulate the food industry.
Women who drink coffee are 20 percent less prone to depression, according to a new Harvard study.
Bad Luck vs. Bad Practice: Radiation has been detected in rice crops near the crippled Fukushima power plant in Japan. Meanwhile, a Pennsylvania firm has recalled approximately 5,550 pounds of pureed pork products after reports that small metal fragments were found in boxes of Imperial Sysco's Country Style Pork.
Environmentalists sent Congress a memo stating their belief that industrial farming has no place in this country without parallel measures aimed at stopping soil erosion, lessening pesticide use, and cleaning up the air and soil on and around farms.
As part of his quest to eat healthier and more sustainably by eating only meat he kills himself, the founder of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, appears to have killed a bison. Wow. What a man.
Finally, pasta like you've never seen it before. And vegetables like you've never heard them before.

        
Busy Week in Food: Even More Links!
        
Food Links for the Info-Famished
        
More Food Links Than You Can Handle
        
A Feast of Food Links
        
Give a New Yorker a Chicken...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); BUDGETS (88%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); MEATS (75%); FUTURES (72%); E COLI (72%); PORK (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (69%); BACTERIA (69%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Agriculture; Food Contamination and Poisoning; links; Agriculture and Farming; Agriculture Department; Rodale Institute; SYSCO Corp; SYSCO Corp|SYY|NYSE

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATION (84%); RODALE INSTITUTE (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); NATIONAL MILK PRODUCERS FEDERATION (56%) Agriculture Department; Rodale Institute; SYSCO Corp

TICKER: SYSCO Corp; SYY; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011



126 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Goes to Sefcon II on Swaps

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street examines the swap execution facility and asks a question that most people outside the financial industry would appreciate: "What is a S.E.F., and what is it good for?" 

 BODY:
The title of the lead-off panel on Monday at the Sefcon conference, a Wall Street gathering devoted to the relatively obscure world of the swap execution facility, asked a question that most people outside the financial industry would appreciate: "What is a S.E.F. and what is it good for?"
The term S.E.F. did not even exist until last year, when it was born out of the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul. The law shook up the unregulated $600 trillion derivatives market, requiring the creation of swap execution facilities, or marketplaces where derivatives can openly trade. 
"As we sit here today, we are undoubtedly in the cusp of enormous changes," said J. Christopher Giancarlo, the chairman of Sefcon and an executive vice president at the GFI Group, which plans to register as a swap execution facility.
The Sefcon conference got its start last year when the Dodd-Frank Act was in its infancy. At the time, the founders of the event named it Sefcon I, a wink at Defcon, the tiered military alert system. 
On Monday, at Sefcon II in the Grand Hyatt hotel in Midtown Manhattan, the debate over Dodd-Frank's many restrictions on swap execution facilities took center stage. Over the next few months, regulators will put the finishing touches on the rules, which are aimed at preventing a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. 
"Even though it has been three years since TARP passed, our economy still feels the downward spiral," said Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the keynote speaker at Sefcon II, noting that Congress approved the bank bailout bill three years ago on Monday. "While the crisis had many causes, it's evident that the unregulated derivatives called swaps played a central role."
Swap execution facilities, Mr. Gensler said, will remedy many of the risks in the derivatives industry. "S.E.F.'s are critical to bring transparency to the opaque swaps market," he said. The agency, which proposed standards for swap execution facilities in January, expects to complete the rules in the first quarter of next year, Mr. Gensler said. 
But regulators must first decide just how open and transparent to make the facilities, an issue that has caused uproar in Washington. Wall Street, with a helping hand from several lawmakers, is pushing Mr. Gensler to soften the rules. 
Representative Scott Garrett, a New Jersey Republican, teamed up during the summer with Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat, to sponsor the Swap Execution Facility Clarification Act, which would require regulators to back off some harsher regulations. 
The legislation, for instance, would open up S.E.F. trading to more private deals booked over the phone rather than online. The legislation also would abolish Mr. Gensler's plan to require five firms to respond to a quote to buy or sell a specific derivative. 
"I'd like very much to work with you to make sure New York City is the financial capital, not just of New York State, but of the world," Ms. Maloney told a packed room of some 400 Wall Street traders, brokers and lawyers. "If you see a regulation that is unfair," she said, "let us know and maybe we can work together."
Ms. Maloney has high hopes that her bill will pass the House, though she said its fate ultimately would rest on Mr. Gensler being open to certain changes. She called on Mr. Gensler to meet with lawmakers in a "small room" to address their differences. 
Mr. Giancarlo, head of Sefcon, likewise criticized the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for proposing rules that, he said, "betray a hidden prejudice toward electronic-only" trading "ill-suited to real market conditions."
Mr. Gensler, however, seems skeptical of revamping the proposed rules. 
"There are those who might like to roll them back and put us back in the regulatory environment that led to the crisis three years ago," he said. "Only with reform can the public get the benefit of transparent, open and competitive markets."

        
Unlike Banks, This Wall St. Group Embraces Dodd-Frank
        
Regulators Delay Position Limits, Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); BANK FAILURES (64%) C.F.T.C; dodd-fra; Dodd-Frank; Gary Gensler; J. Christopher Giancarlo; Rep. Carolyn Maloney; Rep. Scott Garrett; Scott Garrett; Sefcon; swap execution facilites; Garrett, E Scott; Gensler, Gary; Maloney, Carolyn B; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Commodity Futures Trading Commission; GFI Group Inc; GFI Group Inc|GFIG|NYSE; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; GFI Group Inc

TICKER: GFI Group Inc; GFIG; NYSE

PERSON: SCOTT GARRETT (90%); CAROLYN MALONEY (85%) Garrett, E Scott; Gensler, Gary; Maloney, Carolyn B

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



127 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Buyout Firms to Buy Drug Research Company for $3.9 Billion

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Carlyle Group and Hellman &#038; Friedman agreed to buy Pharmaceutical Product Development in one of the largest private equity deals this year. 

 BODY:
7:02 p.m. | Updated 
The buyout firms Carlyle Group and Hellman & Friedman struck one of the largest private equity deals of 2011, agreeing to buy the clinical research company Pharmaceutical Product Development for $3.9 billion.
The acquisition, which was announced Monday, will pay the company's owners $33.25 a share, 30 percent above the stock's closing price on Friday. The deal was a rare bright spot on a gloomy day on Wall Street. Shares of Pharmaceutical Product Development ended up 25.8 percent, at $32.28, on a day when the broader stock market tumbled.
Pharmaceutical Product Development, based in Wilmington, N.C., provides outsourced clinical research and laboratory services to drug companies. It is a hot business. The world's largest pharmaceutical companies, as their profit margins come under pressure and the cost of getting drugs approved has increased, have gradually shifted some of their research and development activities to outside contractors. Private equity firms are also attracted to these companies for their relatively stable cash flow, allowing the firms to easily borrow money to finance their purchases.
Among Pharmaceutical Product Development's chief competitors is Quintiles Transnational, a big manager of clinical trials based in nearby Research Triangle Park, N.C. Quintiles has been owned for nearly a decade by private equity firms. Bain Capital, TPG Capital and 3i Group now control the company alongside its founder, Dennis B. Gillings.
Last year, Thomas H. Lee bought InVentiv Health, a pharmaceutical support company, for $1.1 billion. In a recent deal, Avista Capital Partners led the $230 million acquisition of Kendle International, a clinical researcher, and combined it with INC Research, a company in the area that it already owned.
A number of the largest buyouts since the financial crisis have been in the health care industry. In the biggest private equity deal this year, a group of funds led by Apax Partners bought Kinetic Concepts, a provider of wound treatments, for $6.3 billion. In 2009, TPG and a Canadian pension fund acquired IMS Health, a provider of health care data, for $4 billion.
The Pharmaceutical Product Development buyout is welcome news for the private equity business, which has undergone a slowdown in activity as the stock market has swooned and bank shares have tumbled. Carlyle and Hellman needed to tap four banks - Credit Suisse, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and UBS - to secure financing for the deal.
The clinical research business has been a boon to North Carolina's Research Triangle, a cluster of academic and business institutions. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has been a beneficiary of the industry's success.
Pharmaceutical Product Development, founded 25 years ago by Fred Eshelman, employs 11,000. Mr. Eshelman graduated in 1972 from the pharmacy school of the University of North Carolina, a school that now bears his name after he donated $20 million to the university.
Right next door to the U.N.C. Eshelman School of Pharmacy is the U.N.C. Gillings School of Global Public Health, named after Mr. Gillings, the founder of Quintiles, who in 2008 donated $50 million to the school.

        
Nielsen Offering Price Set to Exceed Estimate
        
Nielsen Lowers Expectations for Its Coming I.P.O.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (94%); PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (93%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); OUTSOURCING (74%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CASH FLOW (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); WOUND CARE (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%) Carlyle Group; Hellman & Friedman; Pharmaceutical Product Development; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Private Equity; Pharmaceutical Product Development|PPDI|NASDAQ; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: AVISTA CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); KENDLE INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (55%); 3I GROUP PLC (54%); INVENTIV HEALTH INC (54%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (53%); IMS HEALTH INC (52%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Carlyle Group; Hellman & Friedman; Pharmaceutical Product Development

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); III (LSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%) Pharmaceutical Product Development; PPDI; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (92%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



128 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Tax breaks, Obama's popularity problem, new Election Day laws and Gov. Rick Perry on the defensive. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times
 Although plenty of lawmakers claim to be against tax breaks and so-called loopholes, eliminating them threatens sacred ground: such breaks are a favorite tool among both parties to reward supporters and economic interests in their home states. Whether the breaks remain intact may ultimately prove how serious Congress is about reducing the national debt, and how adept powerful lobbies are at guarding their benefits, experts say. 
 The killing of an American-born Qaeda leader in Yemen on Friday will probably boost the high marks Americans give President Obama, but not where he needs them. Ten years after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, economic insecurity has replaced national security as America's chief concern. 
 Republicans have passed a bevy of new Election Day laws, but in their quest to prevent voter fraud they could make it harder for more than five million eligible Americans to select their candidate in 2012. Since voter fraud is extremely rare, Democrats say the new laws are really targeted at discouraging or blocking poor voters, young voters and black voters from participating in the election. 
 Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is again on the defensive after it was revealed that he hunted and brought guests to a West Texas camp where a portion of the property had a racially charged name. The Perry campaign did not dispute that the racial slur was used as a name for the property. But it issued a statement saying that the name was changed soon after Mr. Perry's father, Ray, joined a lease that gave him hunting rights there almost 30 years ago. 
Happenings in Washington
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will meet with 40 women entrepreneurs from 36 African nations at the Department of State. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); WOMEN (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); TERRORISM (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); YEMEN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



129 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Back From Break, Congress Has a Full Plate

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: Hanging over both chambers is the specter of yet another serious fiscal fight this week, with longer-term battles over trade, regulations and how best to stimulate the economy also on the horizon. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Congress returns on Monday after a week off, but it was the sort of recess during which it rains every day, and no one gets to play on the swings. Hanging over both chambers is the specter of yet another serious fiscal fight this week, with longer-term battles over trade, regulations and how best to stimulate the economy also on the horizon. 
Expect to see three parallel discussions in Washington this week, with the White House, Senate and House all talking about the same general problem - the feeble state of the American economy - as if the others were not in the room.
President Obama is expected to continue his clarion call for Congress to pass his multifaceted jobs bill, "right away." 
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, knowing that Mr. Obama's bill does not have ample support among either party, has repeatedly said that his chamber will take up the measure in due time, preferring to take on trade issues first. Republicans are quite gleeful about this, and are expected to continue their practice of e-mailing, posting messages on Twitter and any other measure at their disposal to make sure that anyone with a reporter's pad knows that the Democrat-controlled Senate won't take up the leader of their party's own bill. At least not yet. 
For their part, House Republicans will focus on deregulation, and debating whether or not to fund the government for several more weeks. 
Late last month, the Senate and House agreed - more or less by accident - on a short-term spending measure to keep the government open through Tuesday, the 157th such stopgap spending bill enacted since 1977. 
The fight that nearly led to the shutdown was over disaster aid; Republicans wanted money for victims of natural disasters to be offset with other cuts in spending, while Democrats opposed such a move. The fight ended when the Federal Emergency Management Agency found enough money to make it through the fiscal year, which ended over the weekend, and the House and Senate agreed on a measure to fund the government for that period, too. 
This week, the House is expected to consider a Senate measure to pay the government's bills through Nov. 18. While the leaders of the Republican-controlled House would like that bill to be settled quietly so that chamber can move on to spending bills for the rest of the new fiscal year in short order, there are many members who have suggested that they will vote against that bill, because they seek deeper cuts in spending for many programs, including the one that guaranteed a loan for Solyndra, the solar equipment manufacturer that recently filed for bankruptcy protection.
The House is also expected to take up bills that push back on environmental regulations, like those concerning boilers and cement manufacturers, that Republicans and some Democrats say contribute to job losses. On Sunday night, Speaker John A. Boehner and other leaders in the House sent a letter to President Obama urging his support of these measures. "It is our hope that in the spirit of putting country before party," the letter reads, "you will call on the Senate to follow the House in passing these measures, and commit to signing them into law should they reach your desk."
Over in the Senate, Monday will begin with the discussion of currency manipulation. The Senate measure would require the Treasury Department to use a lower standard for determining whether China's currency is misaligned, thus triggering higher duties on Chinese imports. 
Against the backdrop of all of this is the bipartisan Congressional committee of 12, whose members are supposed to be coming up with a $1.2 trillion deficit reduction package to present to Congress by Thanksgiving. The committee has no public meetings or hearings set this week. Tick tock. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); CEMENT MFG (60%) House of Representatives; Senate; The Caucus

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



130 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says He's the Underdog in 2012

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama says the campaign will be a "contest of values and vision." 

 BODY:
He ain't nothin' but an underdog, he says.
President Obama said in an interview on Monday that he "absolutely" is the underdog in next year's presidential election "given the economy," but he expressed confidence that voters ultimately will award him a second term because they prefer his vision to that of Republicans.
Mr. Obama's remarks, in a White House interview with George Stephanopoulos for ABC News and Yahoo.com, came after Mr. Stephanopoulos said the broadcast network's new poll found that 55 percent of Americans believe Mr. Obama will be a one-term president. "Are you the underdog now?" he asked.
Mr. Obama said "absolutely" so quickly and emphatically that Mr. Stephanopoulos commented upon it. "I'm used to being an underdog," Mr. Obama said. "At the end of the day, though, what people are going to say is, Who's got a vision for the future that can actually help ordinary families recapture that American dream?"
 Politicians often embrace underdog status to energize their base of supporters and guard against complacency or disenchantment. Mr. Obama's advisers and supporters may be doubly satisfied that he is assuming that label since he has a pattern, both frustrating and reassuring to Democrats, of rising to the occasion and fighting back when he is down. And currently Mr. Obama's job-approval ratings in polls are the lowest since he took office.
 Mr. Obama also acknowledged that many Americans cannot give an affirmative answer to the standard that Ronald Reagan used to devastating effect in 1980 to unseat President Jimmy Carter. When Mr. Stephanopoulos asked how Mr. Obama would convince many Americans that they are better off than they were four years ago, Mr. Obama said, "Well, I don't think they're better off than they were four years ago."
 But, he said, that was before the near-collapse of the financial system and an "extraordinary recession," both of which occurred at the end of President George W. Bush's term. "I think that what we've seen is that we've been able to make steady progress to stabilize the economy," Mr. Obama said, "but the unemployment rate is still way too high. And that's why it's so critical for us to make sure that we are taking every action we can take to put people back to work."
 Mr. Stephanopoulos read a question from one of 40,000 people who submitted queries to ABC and Yahoo, asking what two words would replace "hope" and "change" as Mr. Obama's themes for 2012. While the president did not have a ready reply, ultimately the answer seemed to be "values" and "vision."
 "There is going to be a contest of values and vision in 2012," he said.
 Implicitly drawing a contrast with Republicans, Mr. Obama added, "Now, there are going to be some folks who make the argument that if you just slash spending, eliminate regulations that prevent us from polluting our air or polluting our water or, you know, we bust labor unions, that that in and of itself is going to restore the American dream. I don't think most Americans believe that."
 Instead, he said, most Americans agree with him that the government must invest in education, basic research, technology and infrastructure even as it reduces projected deficits.
 Mr. Obama dismissed criticism from Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who called Mr. Obama divisive and "a bystander" in the White House. Such comments are unsurprising from someone considering a bid for president, Mr. Obama said, because "in Republican primaries saying nasty stuff about me" probably "polls pretty well." 
 But he pushed back nonetheless.
"I don't think that the American people would dispute that, at every step of the way, I have done everything I can to try to get the Republican Party to work with me to deal with what is the biggest crisis of our lifetimes. And each time, all we've gotten from them is 'no,'" Mr. Obama said, adding, "They've made a decision to follow what is a pretty extreme approach to governance."
Mr. Stephanopoulos for a few seconds seemed to have hopes that Mr. Obama would make news by reversing his stand against same-sex marriage - only to be disappointed.
Mr. Obama said he supports "at minimum that gays and lesbians have strong civil unions." 
Mr. Stephanopoulos immediately seized on the phrase "at minimum" as a sign that Mr. Obama, who has said his position against same-sex marriage is "evolving," might be about to announce a change.
But Mr. Obama responded with something of a tease: "I probably won't make news right now, George, but I think there's no doubt that, as I see friends, families, you know, children of gay couples who are thriving, you know, that that has an impact on how I think about these issues."
Will he change his mind before the election? Mr. Stephanopoulos asked.
"You know," Mr. Obama said, "I'm still working on it."

        
Calls for Shakeup in White House That Prizes Constancy
        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough
        
Supreme Court Ruling Could Revive Health Care for 2012 Campaign
        
Caucus Video: The Palin and Christie Strategies
        
Palin 'on the Verge' of a Decision About Presidential Run

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%) 2012 election; president obama; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



131 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1878 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Others Go, but Buffett Stays on President's Side | On Friday evening, Mr. Buffett was the host of a fund-raiser for President Obama at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan, typically a magnet for the who's who of finance.
Yet organizers had trouble drawing a full house. The president's campaign reserved space for 130 guests but only 116 (including Democratic staff members) attended, according to people with knowledge of the matter but not authorized to speak on the record.
As others in business have moved to distance themselves from Mr. Obama, Mr. Buffett has found himself in a lonely role as the president's ambassador among the moneyed set. He is endorsing not just Mr. Obama but also a policy like the so-called Buffett Rule, which would increase taxes on the rich, as well as the view that America is exiting, not re-entering, a recession.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
A Case the Justice Department Just Won't Give Up | Why is the Justice Department continuing to fight a what appears to be a losing battle against a relatively small savings bank seized in 1992?
Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times takes a look at the case of Carteret Savings Bank of New Jersey, which claims the government is financially responsible for its failure.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Does Alibaba Have a Chance to Buy Yahoo? | After Alibaba's chairman, Jack Ma, set the technology world chattering on Friday by declaring his interest in buying all of Yahoo, Bloomberg News takes a look at the likelihood of such a deal.
"Despite the obvious cultural hurdles ... it would be hard for Alibaba to do a worse job than previous management," Duncan Clark, chairman of the telecommunications consulting company BDA China, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG NEWS | DEALBOOK
Intel to Buy Telmap | In its latest foray into software acquisitions, Intel agreed on Sunday to buy Telmap, an Israeli maker of map software.
DealBook 
Goldman Bet On Metal Exchange Set to Pay Off | Goldman Sachs is set for a big payday from the proposed sale of the London Metal Exchange.
Goldman increased its stake in the exchange fourfold in the last two years, and now the British exchange is being valued at more than $1.6 billion, making the shares worth about 15 times more than their last traded price.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Chances of a Hulu Sale Said to Dim | Faced with low bids and vanishing interest, a sale of Hulu is looking less and less likely.
THE WRAP | BUSINESS INSIDER
Rash of Mining Deals Expected | Be prepared for more deals in the mining sector, Reuters writes. With Asian nations still hungry for commodities, and company valuations low as a result of market volatility, big growth opportunities are said to be close at hand.
REUTERS
When Blocking a Deal Is Not the Only Answer | As the Justice Department seeks to block AT&T's takeover of T-Mobile USA, Reuters Breakingviews takes a look at the case of the Live Nation-Ticketmaster merger, which it says shows that rather than blocking a merger outright, "extracting concessions can work instead."
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Old Mutual Eyes Dwight Sale | Old Mutual Asset Management is considering selling the institutional fixed-income asset manager Dwight Asset Management Company, whose assets stood at around $45 billion earlier this summer, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
TMX's Kloet Has Not Decided on Maple Bid | Thomas Kloet, the head of the TMX Group, is still open to the $3.7 billion hostile bid for his company from the Maple Group, a consortium on Canadian banks, though he has emphasized the importance of regulatory approval before he really considers the offer.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
No Longer a Drag, but No Joy at Merrill | Three years after the financial crisis, Merrill Lynch is thriving, despite fears it would drag down Bank of America. But other troubles at the bank are overshadowing Merrill's turnaround.
DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Becomes Focus of Investor Fears | Morgan Stanley, whose share have fallen 41 percent over the last three months, is getting pummeled by investor fears that the bank will not be able to weather another financial upheaval.
NEW YORK TIMES
Clearing House Group Assails Bank Capital Rules | The Clearing House Association warns that requiring layers of bank capital protection would devastate the industry's returns and have a chilling effect on the economy.
DealBook 
Citigroup Weighs Japan Shake-Up Amid Investigation | Management changes might be coming for Citigroup's Japan office, following a reported investigation by the country's regulators, according to The Wall Street Journal.
The Financial Services Agency is looking into whether Citigroup failed to comply with Japanese regulations in the marketing of certain financial products, according to press reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL | REUTERS
Asian Bankers Show Interest in Troubled UBS | Hong Kong bankers are excited about the possibility of a sale of part or all of UBS, in the wake of its trading scandal, reports The Financial Times.
FINANCIAL TIMES
BTG Hires Top Barclays Executive | BTG Pactual, Brazil's largest independent investment bank, has hired the star Barclays executive Roger Jenkins, in what can be read as a statement of the Brazilian lender's intent as it seeks global expansion, The Financial Times writes.
FINANCIAL TIMES
DoubleLine Starts Low-Duration Fund | The Los Angeles asset manager DoubleLine Funds Trust has started a new open-ended fund that "invests principally in debt securities," the firm's president and co-founder, Philip Barach, told HedgeCo.net.
HEDGECO.NET
Discontent Over Spain's Caja Fund | Spain's Fund for Orderly Bank Restructuring has already taken control of six groups of savings banks in the nation, and said it would buy stakes in two more. The fund is taking criticism, however, in part because of the low valuations set by the government fund.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Chinese Bank Dismisses Rights Issue Fears | The Agricultural Bank of China has said it does not expect to have to resort to a rights issue to meet capital and growth targets, Li Zhenjiang, a board secretary at the lender, told The Financial Times, insisting that extra time would be enough for the bank to adjust.
FINANCIAL TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Clear Channel Names Pittman as Its Chief | Robert W. Pittman, the chairman of Clear Channel's media and entertainment business, will also replace Mark Mays as executive chairman.
DealBook 
Private Equity Firms Prepare for Write-Downs | Private equity firms are preparing for their first wave of write-downs since the end of 2009, with industry insiders expecting a loss of as much as 20 percent, The Telegraph reports.
TELEGRAPH
Qatar to Invest in European Goldfields | Qatar's sovereign wealth fund is set to invest $1 billion in the gold producer European Goldfields, $600 million of which has been set aside to mine gold in Greece.
REUTERS
Japan and China Fund Looks to Make Debut Investment | Kizuna Capital Partners, which was established in August by Mitsubishi and the Creat Group, is nearing a debut investment for its $120 million private equity fund.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Icahn Locks In a Deputy With a New Contract | After losing at least one top deputy, Carl C. Icahn expects to keep another, Vincent J. Intrieri, through the end of 2013, but his employment agreement has quietly been changed.
DealBook 
Why Hedge Funds Need Active Directors | Recent litigation highlights the growing importance of an active and involved board of directors at offshore hedge funds, Forbes writes.
FORBES
Hedge Fund Ordered to Pay Wachovia $2.1 Million | VCG Special Opportunities Master Fund, a hedge fund based on the Isle of Jersey, has been ordered by a judge to pay Wachovia $2.1 million in a case related to a credit-default swap.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Winton Capital's Assets Reach $25 Billion | David Harding's Winton Capital, which uses scientific research to work out patterns in market behavior, has seen its laboratory approach to finance paying off, beating poor performance across the industry; its assets under management have reached $25 billion.
CITY A.M.
Endemol Shareholders Set for Hedge Fund Hit | Shareholders in the Dutch television producer Endemol, the company behind the "Big Brother" reality series, are set to lose out when hedge funds holding the company's $2.9 billion of debt swap all but $500 million of it for equity, Bloomberg News reports, citing The Sunday Times.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Fitness First, I.P.O. When? | Fitness First, the British gym company, has shelved its $500 million plan to go public in Singapore because of continuing adverse market conditions, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Philippines Semiconductor Maker Shelves Offering | Cirtek Holdings, a semiconductor manufacturer based in the Philippines, has opted to reschedule its October initial public offering, responding to a poor market environment.
MALAYA BUSINESS INSIGHT
VENTURE CAPITAL 
In Nevada Geothermal Plant, Echoes of Solyndra | Like Solyndra, the solar panel company that filed for bankruptcy last month, Nevada Geothermal Power is facing serious debt issues after receiving government loan guarantees.
NEW YORK TIMES
Airbnb, Investor Settle Differences | The venture capitalist Chamath Palihapitiya has decided to participate in Airbnb's latest financing round, after the investor and start-up company agreed to a deal structure that would allow employees to participate, according to AllThingsD.
ALLTHINGSD
Ontario Pension Fund to Create Venture Arm | The Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System plans to create a venture capital fund to invest around $180 million over the next three years.
GLOBE AND MAIL
Blekko Secures Fresh Funding | Blekko, a California search engine start-up that promises to filter out unwanted results, has raised $30 million in a round led by Yandex of Russia.
VENTUREBEAT
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Kodak Hires Legal Adviser Amid Talk of Bankruptcy | The struggling Eastman Kodak denied that a bankruptcy filing was imminent after it hired a law firm as an adviser on a possible restructuring.
DealBook 
S.E.C. Report Finds Trouble at Ratings Agencies | While a report from the Securities Exchange Commission found that credit ratings agencies repeatedly failed to follow internal procedures and to properly manage conflicts of interest, the examination may be of little use to investors given that the S.E.C. has refused to name names.
NEW YORK TIMES
Why Is C.E.O. Failure So Lavishly Rewarded? | Leo Apotheker, who was fired recently from the top post at Hewlett-Packard, will walk away with $13 million in termination benefits. Like other examples, this case raises the question of why the board would approve a deal "that arguably made it more lucrative for him to fail - and the sooner the better - than to succeed," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
European Central Bank Seen Surviving a Greek Default, but Fears for Banks Persist | A Greek default is unlikely to cripple the European Central Bank, but it would surely be a major - and in some cases, definitive - blow for lenders, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MERGERS (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); MINES & MINING (60%); TAX INCREASES (53%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (66%); CARTERET SAVINGS BANK (55%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); INTEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (66%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD T CLARK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011



132 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Group Urges Research Into Aggressive Efforts to Fight Climate Change

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
With political action on curbing greenhouse gases stalled, a bipartisan panel of scientists, former government officials and national security experts is recommending that the government begin researching a radical fix: directly manipulating the Earth's climate to lower the temperature.
Members said they hoped that such extreme engineering techniques, which include scattering particles in the air to mimic the cooling effect of volcanoes or stationing orbiting mirrors in space to reflect sunlight, would never be needed. But in its report, to be released on Tuesday, the panel said it is time to begin researching and testing such ideas in case ''the climate system reaches a 'tipping point' and swift remedial action is required.''
The 18-member panel was convened by the Bipartisan Policy Center, a research organization based in Washington founded by four senators -- Democrats and Republicans -- to offer policy advice to the government. In interviews, some of the panel members said they hoped that the mere discussion of such drastic steps would jolt the public and policy makers into meaningful action in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which they called the highest priority.
The idea of engineering the planet is ''fundamentally shocking,'' David Keith, an energy expert at Harvard and the University of Calgary and a member of the panel, said. ''It should be shocking.'' 
In fact, it is an idea that many environmental groups have rejected as misguided and potentially dangerous.
Jane Long, an associate director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and the panel's co-chairwoman, said that by spewing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, human activity was already engaged in climate modification. ''We are doing it accidentally, but the Earth doesn't know that,'' she said, adding, ''Going forward in ignorance is not an option.''
The panel, the Task Force on Climate Remediation Research, suggests that the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy begin coordinating research and estimates that a valuable effort could begin with a few million dollars in financing over the next few years.
One reason that the United States should embrace such research, the report suggests, is the threat of unilateral action by another country. Members say research is already under way in Britain, Germany and possibly other countries, as well as in the private sector.
''A conversation about this is going to go on with us or without us,'' said David Goldston, a panel member who directs government affairs at the Natural Resources Defense Council and is a former chief of staff of the House Committee on Science. ''We have to understand what is at stake.''
In interviews, panelists said again and again that the continuing focus of policy makers and experts should be on reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. But several acknowledged that significant action remained a political nonstarter. Last month, for example, the Obama administration told the federal Environmental Protection Agency to hold off on tightening ozone standards, citing complications related to the weak economy.
According to the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, greenhouse gas emissions have contributed to raising the global average surface temperatures by about 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit in the past 100 years. It is impossible to predict how much impact the report will have. But given the panelists' varied political and professional backgrounds, they seem likely to achieve one major goal: starting a broader conversation on the issue. Some climate experts have been working on it for years, but they have largely kept their discussions to themselves, saying they feared giving the impression that there might be quick fixes for climate change.
''Climate adaptation went through the same period of concern,'' Mr. Goldston said, referring to the onetime reluctance of some researchers to discuss ways in which people, plants and animals might adjust to climate change. Now, he said, similar reluctance to discuss geoengineering is giving way, at least in part because ''it's possible we may have to do this no matter what.''
Although the techniques, which fall into two broad groups, are more widely known as geoengineering, the panel prefers ''climate remediation.''
The first is carbon dioxide removal, in which the gas is absorbed by plants, trapped and stored underground or otherwise removed from the atmosphere. The methods are ''generally uncontroversial and don't introduce new global risks,'' said Ken Caldeira, a climate expert at Stanford University and a panel member. ''It's mostly a question of how much do these things cost.''
Controversy arises more with the second group of techniques, solar radiation management, which involves increasing the amount of solar energy that bounces back into space before it can be absorbed by the Earth. They include seeding the atmosphere with reflective particles, launching giant mirrors above the earth or spewing ocean water into the air to form clouds.
These techniques are thought to pose a risk of upsetting earth's natural rhythms. With them, Dr. Caldeira said, ''the real question is what are the unknown unknowns: Are you creating more risk than you are alleviating?''
At the influential blog Climate Progress, Joe Romm, a fellow at the Center for American Progress, has made a similar point, likening geo-engineering to a dangerous course of chemotherapy and radiation to treat a condition curable through diet and exercise -- or, in this case, emissions reduction.
The panel rejected any immediate application of climate remediation techniques, saying too little is known about them. In 2009, the Royal Society in Britain said much the same, assessing geoengineering technologies as ''technically feasible'' but adding that their potential costs, effectiveness and risks were unknown.
Similarly, in a 2010 review of federal research that might be relevant to climate remediation, the federal General Accountability Office noted that ''major uncertainties remain on the efficacy and potential consequences'' of the approach. Its report also recommended that the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy ''establish a clear strategy for geoengineering research.''
John P. Holdren, who heads that office, declined interview requests. He issued a statement reiterating the Obama administration's focus on ''taking steps to sensibly reduce pollution that is contributing to climate change.''
Yet in an interview with The Associated Press in 2009, Dr. Holdren said the possible risks and benefits of geoengineering should be studied very carefully because ''we might get desperate enough to want to use it.''
In a draft plan made public on Friday, the U.S. Global Change Research Program, a coordinating effort administered by his office, outlined its own climate change research agenda, including studies of the impacts of rapid climate change.
The plan said that climate-related projections would be crucial to future studies of the ''feasibility, effectiveness and unintended consequences of strategies for deliberate, large-scale manipulations of Earth's environment,'' including carbon dioxide removal and solar radiation management.
Many countries fault the United States for government inaction on climate change, especially given its longtime role as a chief contributor to the problem.
Frank Loy, a panelist and former undersecretary of state who is now the nation's chief climate negotiator, suggested that people around the world would see past those issues if the United States embraced geoengineering studies, provided that it was ''very clear about what kind of research is undertaken and what the safeguards are.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PHYSICS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



133 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Vehicle Sales Soared Nearly 10% in September, Despite Economic Gloom

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Auto sales defied a downcast economy in September, climbing 9.9 percent to their highest level in five months as new models arrived at dealerships and inventory shortages eased.
All three of the Detroit automakers reported gains, led by a 27.2 percent year-over-year increase for Chrysler, which outsold Toyota for the fourth time this year.
Toyota and Honda again trailed the rest of the industry, even though September was the first month since the March earthquake and tsunami in Japan that all of their plants were running at full capacity. Toyota's sales dropped 17.5 percent, and Honda's were down 8 percent. In contrast, Nissan sales increased 25.3 percent. 
The industry's seasonally adjusted, annualized selling rate rose to 13.1 million, the first time since April that they had exceeded 13 million. General Motors and Ford Motor each said they still expected total sales for 2011 to top 13 million, which would require demand to jump further in the fourth quarter.
Auto executives and analysts said shoppers had not been dissuaded by a declining stock market, bleak consumer confidence surveys, a sluggish housing market or high unemployment. Bigger discounts offered by some brands have helped, as have new offerings like the Chevrolet Sonic, a subcompact car, and a bevy of redesigned models from Chrysler.
''I don't know of any other month where we had positive gains in auto sales with all of those negative factors,'' Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends and insight at TrueCar.com, which tracks sales and pricing. ''The automakers might be convincing some consumers who may not be so eager to spend their money to buy a car because the product is so compelling.''
Mr. Toprak said more consumers also were showing up at dealerships because their current vehicle had outlived its useful life and they had no choice but to buy a replacement. High used-car prices are prompting some in that situation to buy a new one instead.
''As long as things remain relatively stable, even in the face of persistently high unemployment, we're going to consistently see slow growth,'' Don Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales operations, said in a conference call. ''Right now, the pent-up demand due to age of vehicles is what's keeping this nice, steady, slow growth going.'' G.M. sales increased 19.7 percent in September over a year ago.
Falling gas prices helped persuade more shoppers to buy pickup trucks and other larger vehicles. Sales of light trucks, including sport utility vehicles and minivans, rose 16.1 percent, while passenger cars were up 3.4 percent.
Sales of full-size pickups, which typically fare best when the construction industry prospers, surged 46 percent at Chrysler and 33 percent at G.M. Ford, whose sales were up 9 percent over all, sold 18 percent more light trucks but 8.7 percent fewer cars.
At Chrysler, September was the 18th consecutive month of year-over-year sales growth. It reported a 24.3 percent gain for its Jeep brand of S.U.V.'s.
''Irrespective of the economy, strong products equal strong sales,'' Reid Bigland, Chrysler's head of United States sales, said in a statement. ''There is no double-dip downturn going on around here.''
Another carmaker with considerable momentum is Nissan, which experienced relatively minor disruptions from the Japan disaster. Nissan sold 68 percent more of its subcompact car, the Versa, and its midsize sedan, the Altima, has outsold the Honda Accord so far this year.
In addition, the Nissan Leaf, an electric car, added to its sales lead over the Chevrolet Volt, G.M.'s plug-in hybrid. Nissan sold 1,031 Leafs to G.M.'s 723 Volts, but G.M. officials said they were still ramping up production while expanding sales to dealers nationwide.
For Toyota and Honda, even though plants are running at full speed, inventories are expected to remain below prequake levels until early next year. But dealerships said they were finally able to meet most shoppers' needs again, rather than just taking an order or hoping the customer came back later.
''It's beginning to feel like normal, almost,'' said Adam Skolnick, the general manager at Toyota of Watertown, near Boston. ''We have plenty of cars on the lot, and I'm anticipating many, many more coming in the next 45 days or so.''
Mr. Skolnick said the arrival of the redesigned Toyota Camry sedan a week ago was helping the dealership make a quick recovery. For September, Camry sales fell 19.2 percent, but it was the industry's top-selling car.
''It's been like a bakery here, with people taking numbers to see the car,'' Mr. Skolnick said. ''It makes it feel fun again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dodge Ram
Toyota Corolla/Matrix CHARTS: Most Popular Cars and Trucks
How the Industry Fared
 How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); TSUNAMIS (55%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); TRUECAR INC (54%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



134 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: In the Motor City, Success on the Field and Hope Off It

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DETROIT
Who rescued the Lions? What gave the stimulus to the Tigers?
In a city always on the lookout for good news, the sports teams were on the front page Monday, and up front in conversation, too.
Somehow the football team had a 4-0 record, while the baseball team had just escaped from New York with a split, and was sending its ace, Justin Verlander, against the Yankees' ace, C. C. Sabathia. Verlander lasted eight gallant innings as fans waving white towels willed him into throwing 99 miles per hour on his 120th and final pitch in a 5-4 win.
Whether any of this October madness makes any real difference in the economic prospects of the Motor City is open for debate. But feeling good never hurt. 
This shrinking city -- New Orleans North -- has moved into the pop culture of an Eminem commercial and a Clint Eastwood movie, making the viewer root for the underdog. What could be more American than underdogs? (Or so we like to tell ourselves.)
''I love that the owners brought the Lions downtown and built a new ballpark for the Tigers,'' Scott Hay said Monday afternoon. He was wearing a No. 13 Tigers jersey in homage to Lance Parrish (''I couldn't find a Chet Lemon jersey'') and nursing a beer in the Hockeytown Cafe, gazing across an underused Woodward Avenue at the light towers of Comerica Park, where a ballgame would break out in four hours.
''I love the Red Wings,'' said Hay, a native of Grand Rapids, Mich., now living in Sandy, Utah. ''Maybe I shouldn't say this, but they have won so much, but now you have the Lions and Tigers winning on the same day. That doesn't happen very often.''
The evening was so promising that the Hockeytown Cafe, opposite the historic Fox Theater, was likely to draw a crowd on all three indoor levels and even the outdoor garden on a chilly but not brutal night. The manager, who identified himself as Jason, said he had put 60 people on staff; the norm for October might be 10. That sixfold work force was an affirmation of the folk wisdom that sports were good for fading downtowns.
''I think it's fantastic,'' Verlander had said Sunday evening when asked what sports success can do for Detroit. ''One, the more you win, the more fans come.'' He added, ''When things are going well with the sporting teams, obviously, people tend to migrate there much more often.''
Obviously, these were patrons of a sports oasis, not the hardest-hit residents of Detroit. But on Monday, they were migrating to this city of unintentional Potemkin villages -- skyscrapers built for thousands of workers, in support of factories built to produce millions of cars -- but downtown has as many ghosts as workers. In midafternoon, the handsome Old Wayne County Building on Randolph, with its Beaux-Arts and neo-Classical touches, was sitting empty, for sale or lease.
The 2010 census showed that Detroit's population had dropped 25 percent --to 713,777, from 951,270 in 2000 -- after a peak of 1.8 million in 1950, when it was the fifth-largest city in the United States But some fans could detect life in the old town.
''I love Detroit,'' said MariAnn Saenen of Caro, Mich., which is in ''the Thumb of Michigan,'' in the northeast corner of the state. She and her friend Marie Berridge from Bad Axe, Mich., were in the Hockeytown Cafe, waiting for Saenen's son and grandson to arrive on a flight from Virginia Beach bearing tickets to the game. The two friends make the run to Tigers games a few times a year and praise Mayor Dave Bing for his plans to use the vacant space for a smaller, greener city.
David Yost of Mount Pleasant, Mich., was guarding two beers and two chairs for his family and saying he comes back for games in the Detroit of Mayor Bing. ''In the past, you wouldn't go down Woodward,'' Yost said, ''but now, people have an 'it's not so bad' attitude.''
Detroit has become a symbol for a nation that still likes to think it builds things. In the babble of the Super Bowl last winter, probably the most touching moment (well, except for Packers fans and bettors) was the two-minute Chrysler commercial featuring Eminem -- a panorama of snow-pelted, scuffling Detroit, with narration: ''You see, it's the hottest fires that make the hardest steel.'' The message was that Motor City still has a mission -- Imported From Detroit.
Motor City was implanted in our consciousness in 2008 by Clint Eastwood, in his film ''Gran Torino,'' about a bigoted autoworker watching the world change around him -- foreign cars, foreign ways. But the old crank grows to love the young Hmong brother and sister next door, maybe as much as he loves the Gran Torino he helped build. It was a Detroit movie. It made the viewer hope that the center would hold.
Lately, there has been a modest comeback by the auto industry, stemming from the proactive investment by the Obama administration. General Motors recently signed a four-year contract with the United Auto Workers, and the union has called in its members for a possible vote on a Ford contract as soon as Tuesday.
In the long run, jobs in plants mean more than whether Verlander could beat the Yankees. But there's no point faulting people who think that matters, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%); WILD CATS (58%)

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (92%); DETROIT LIONS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2011



135 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Wall Street Protests Spreading to Cities Large and Small

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM and TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Ashley Southall contributed reporting from Washington, Ian Lovett from Los Angeles and Steven Yaccino from Chicago.

 BODY:
A loose-knit populist campaign that started on Wall Street three weeks ago has spread to dozens of cities across the country, with protesters camped out in Los Angeles near City Hall, assembled before the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago and marching through downtown Boston to rally against corporate greed, unemployment and the role of financial institutions in the economic crisis.
With little organization and a reliance on Facebook, Twitter and Google groups to share methods, the Occupy Wall Street campaign, as the prototype in New York is called, has clearly tapped into a deep vein of anger, experts in social movements said, bringing longtime crusaders against globalization and professional anarchists together with younger people frustrated by poor job prospects. 
''Rants based on discontents are the first stage of any movement,'' said Michael Kazin, a professor of history at Georgetown University. But he said it was unclear if the current protests would lead to a lasting movement, which would require the newly unleashed passions to be channeled into institutions and shaped into political goals.
Publicity surrounding the recent arrests of hundreds in New York, near Wall Street and on the Brooklyn Bridge, has only energized the campaign. This week, new rallies and in some cases urban encampments are planned for cities as disparate as Memphis, Tenn.; Hilo, Hawaii; Minneapolis; Baltimore; and McAllen, Tex., according to Occupy Together, an unofficial hub for the protests that lists dozens of coming demonstrations, including some in Europe and Japan.
In the nation's capital, an Occupy D.C. movement began on Saturday, with plans to join forces on Thursday with a similar anticorporate and antiwar group, October 2011, for an encampment in a park near the White House.
About 100 mostly younger people, down from 400 over the weekend, were camped outside Los Angeles City Hall on Monday morning. Several dozen tents occupied the lawn along with a free-food station and a media center. People sat on blankets playing the guitar or bongo drums or meditating. Next to a ''Food Not Bombs'' sign, was another that read ''Food Not Banks.''
At the donations table, Elise Whitaker, 21, a freelance script editor and film director, said the protesters were united in their desire for ''a more equal economy.''
''I believe that I am not represented by the big interest groups and the big money corporations, which have increasing control of our money and our politics,'' she said, adding that she was not against capitalism per se.
Javier Rodriguez, 24, a former student at Pasadena City College, held a sign that read ''Down with the World Bank'' in Spanish, and said he was anti-capitalist.
''The monetary system is not working,'' he said. ''The banks are here to steal from us. Everybody is in debt whether it's medical bills or school or loans. People are getting fed up with it.''
In Chicago on Monday morning, about a dozen people outside the Federal Reserve Bank sat on the ground or lay in sleeping bags, surrounded by protest signs and hampers filled with donated food and blankets. The demonstrators, who have been in Chicago since Sept. 24, said they had collected so much food that they started giving the surplus to homeless people.
Each evening, the number of protesters swells as people come from school or work, and the group marches to Michigan Avenue.
''We all have different ideas about what this means, stopping corporate greed,'' said Paul Bucklaw, 45. ''For me, it's about the banks.''
Sean Richards, 21, a junior studying environmental health at Illinois State University in Normal, said he dropped out of college on Friday and took a train to Chicago to demonstrate against oil companies.
He said he would continue sleeping on the street for ''as long as it takes.''
Strategists on the left said they were buoyed by the outpouring of energy and hoped it would contribute to a newly powerful progressive movement. Robert Borosage, co-director of the Campaign for America's Future, in Washington, noted that the Wall Street demonstrations followed protests in Wisconsin this year over efforts to suppress public employee unions and numerous rallies on economic and employment issues.
The new protesters have shown a remarkable commitment and have stayed nonviolent in the face of aggressive actions by the New York police, he said. ''I think that as a result they really touched a chord among activists across the country.''
But if the movement is to have lasting impact, it will have to develop leaders and clear demands, said Nina Eliasoph, a professor of sociology at the University of Southern California.
With the country in such deep economic distress, almost everyone is forced to think about economics and politics, giving the new protests a ''major emotional resonance,'' she said.
''So there is a tension between this emotionally powerful movement,'' she said, ''and the emptiness of the message itself so far.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHICAGO: At protests Monday near the Federal Reserve Bank and the Chicago Board of Trade, demonstrators spoke out against corporate greed and social inequality. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
LOS ANGELES: Marchers wound their way through downtown to the courthouse where the trial for Michael Jackson's doctor continued. Protesters are camping outside City Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 BOSTON: Commuters walked past demonstrators at the Occupy Boston village in the Financial District. Rallies are planned in other cities including Minneapolis, Baltimore and McAllen, Tex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH REYNOLDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); HISTORY (68%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); HILO, HI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



136 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Upbeat Projections, With Caveats, for Ad Spending

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT and TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
THE attendees of Advertising Week 2011 are being told that despite the woeful economy, there will still be advertising in 2012 -- and 2013.
A leading forecaster shared his relatively upbeat predictions on Monday as part of a panel during the eighth annual Advertising Week in New York. It was one of more than 30 events on the conference's first day, which continues through Friday.
Although ''the aftershocks keep on coming,'' said Tim Jones, chief executive of ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, worldwide ad spending will grow this year compared with last year, next year compared with this year and in 2013 compared with 2012. 
There were caveats, among them some downward revisions in Mr. Jones's most recent estimates to reflect concerns about European debt. He also expressed concern about what he called the ''somewhat anemic'' growth rate of the American economy.
And ''if we're not in a recession,'' Mr. Jones warned, ''we may talk ourselves back into a recession.''
Even so, a big reason for growth next year, Mr. Jones said, is the so-called quadrennial effect, as media reap the benefit of selling commercial time and ad space for the 2012 Olympic Summer Games and, in the United States, for the 2012 elections.
''Frankly, the quadrennial effect couldn't come at a better time,'' Mr. Jones said. ''The political spending and the Olympics will help.''
Another panelist, Russ Sapienza, senior partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, offered another reason for the growth forecast.
''From the advertisers' perspective, they don't want to take the money off the table right now,'' Mr. Sapienza said. ''They want to sell products.'' In other words, when growth strategies like building factories seem to be too much of a gamble, increasing ad budgets can appear less risky.
Mr. Sapienza's assessment was echoed by a third panelist, Robert D. Liodice, president and chief executive of the Association of National Advertisers.
''We are seeing some modest G.D.P. growth,'' Mr. Liodice said, ''albeit at a somewhat more modest rate than we're used to.'' That should signal continued growth in ad spending, he added.
''Right now, we're not seeing a Lehman Brothers moment,'' Mr. Liodice said, but there could be ''a very rapid back-pedaling'' in plans to increase ad budgets if problems in Europe worsen.
One important issue that marketers face as they decide ad budgets is where to run ads, particularly as the consumer love affair with digital and social media grows more ardent. The forecast panel addressed that, as did Randall Rothenberg, president and chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau. He spoke during the opening of the seventh annual I.A.B. Mixx conference, which is taking place during Advertising Week.
Mr. Rothenberg, joking that he could be fired for such remarks, told a packed auditorium that technology was ''absolutely irrelevant to the future of digital marketing and advertising'' because the future lay not in the development of new ad units but rather in content -- ''what you put inside those media spaces and time slots.''
Mr. Rothenberg cited a growing number of technology companies, among them AOL, Facebook, Google and Yahoo, that are creating their own content or teaming up with others to do so.
''The story,'' Mr. Rothenberg said, ''is the story.''
Following Mr. Rothenberg was Jonathan Mildenhall, vice president for global advertising strategy and content excellence at the Coca-Cola Company, who spoke of plans to double business in the next decade.
One way to achieve that, Mr. Mildenhall said, is to come up with marketing ideas that are ''so compelling they take on a life of their own.'' Another way, he said, is to cultivate direct relationships with technology partners and then collect, and use, customer data efficiently.
''Data whisperers will become our new messiahs,'' Mr. Mildenhall said.
Another session on Monday that addressed changing media choices featured Robert W. Pittman, who was chairman for media and entertainment platforms at Clear Channel Communications when he was added to the schedule for Advertising Week 2011. On Sunday, he was promoted by Clear Channel to chief executive and executive chairman.
''I try to say it's the Advertising Week bump,'' said Matt Scheckner, executive director of Advertising Week 2011, who introduced Mr. Pittman. He quickly added, laughing, ''I don't think that's true.''
Mr. Pittman devoted much of his talk to describe Clear Channel's warm embrace of new media. The company is known for selling advertisers commercial time on radio stations and ad space on billboards. Among the company's new ventures are iHeartRadio, an online radio service that is linked to Facebook, and Thumbplay, a digital music subscription service.
''We should take advantage of change,'' Mr. Pittman said. ''We should be wherever we can with the products and services people expect.''
''I'm an old-fashioned guy,'' he added. ''I believe if you have a great relationship with the consumer, you'll have an opportunity to make money from it.''
For instance, Mr. Pittman said, ''we put the Univision stations'' -- which broadcast in Spanish -- ''on iHeartRadio. We don't own them, but we're thinking, 'How do you really serve the consumer?' ''
But media companies that pioneer with ''new stuff'' should not expect sponsors, he said, because not every marketer takes chances.
He added: ''Part of your challenge is to find those marketers that'll be your steadies. You go steady with them.''
How to woo them? Take them, perhaps, on a date to an Advertising Week panel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Pittman, left, the chief executive of Clear Channel, spoke with Owen Van Natta from Zynga at Advertising Week on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY HE/INSIDER IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (65%); OLYMPICS (65%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (57%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



137 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Flat Prices but More Manhattan Home Sales

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
The Manhattan real estate market remained resilient in the last three months, with prices holding steady and sales volume going up, despite the wild gyrations of the stock market over the summer and continued fears of global economic crisis.
The median sales price for Manhattan apartments held steady, with the city's largest brokerage firms finding median prices of between $850,000 and $911,333, according to sales reports that will be released on Tuesday. The number of sales during the quarter, however, was up by more than 15 percent compared with the same time last year.
''The prices are boring, but the volume is exciting,'' said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group. Her agency's data showed 3,750 sales marketwide, the highest number since mid-2008, before the market crashed. 
Ms. Liebman said the market slowed briefly in early August, after a credit rating agency downgraded the nation's debt rating and the financial markets took a series of unpredictable swings. ''But we've become much more used to that type of volatility,'' she said. ''If that had happened a couple years ago, we would have lost hundreds of deals, but as it was, people paused for a few days and then came right back.''
Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property, said she saw the relatively flat market as good news. ''What we predicted and actually hoped for was slow and steady recovery,'' Ms. Ramirez said. ''And that's what we're continuing to see.''
Average sales prices rose by 1 percent from last year, to $1.437 million, largely because of an increase in the number of transactions above $5 million, according to data from Brown Harris Stevens.
''The uptick in the average sales price is thanks to the high-end market,'' said Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens. The price of Upper East Side apartments with three or more bedrooms, for example, went up 29 percent, to $4.54 million, primarily because there were five sales of more than $20 million, compared with just one such sale last year.
Dottie Herman, the chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said many of the high-end sales were going to foreign buyers. ''We're seeing more foreigners than we did during the boom,'' Ms. Herman said. ''It's because the dollar is so weak and with the whole world in a mess, people feel that real estate in New York is still a lot more stable than elsewhere.''
At the same time, the brokerages reported increased sales volume for studios and one-bedroom apartments. The number of studios and one-bedrooms sold in the last quarter rose to 1,500, a 26.7 percent increase from 1,184 the same time last year. Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Elliman's report, noted that the 1,500 sales did not represent a boom so much as a return to historic norms.
Entry-level-apartment sales lagged in the last two years, when rents were weak and many landlords offered incentives, but rents have rebounded this year, giving people incentive to become first-time buyers. Mr. Miller said the increase in sales of smaller apartments was also probably a result of mortgage rates' remaining low. ''That's also significant because mortgage underwriting has actually tightened and you essentially have to have quadruple-A credit just to get a mortgage,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (53%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (53%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



138 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Two Chosen 'Geniuses' Reflect On Label

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
The MacArthur Foundation has never attached the word ''genius'' to its annual grants to exemplary scientists, scholars, researchers, writers, artists, composers and other creative Americans. The term ''genius award'' seems to have sprung up in the news media soon after the first grants were given, in 1981, and the nickname has stuck. The program simply provides a fellowship, with recipients (some 20 to 40 each year) receiving $500,000 each, no strings attached, paid in quarterly installments over five years.
Who is a certifiable genius? What exactly does that mean? Though the term is invoked in the arts probably more than in any of the other fields from which the MacArthur Foundation chooses fellows, you could argue that defining genius is a more elusive proposition in the arts than in the sciences. There are accepted protocols to certify that a physicist's research has broken new ground and has advanced understanding. Not in the arts. So what might the foundation be looking for when it evaluates musical accomplishment and potential?
I raised the question in separate telephone interviews with 2 of the 22 new MacArthur Foundation Fellows announced last month, the only recipients to come from classical music, and both New Yorkers. 
One is the cellist Alisa Weilerstein, 29, an exciting and adventurous performer. She played with her parents, the violinist Donald Weilerstein and the pianist Vivian Hornik Weilerstein, as the Weilerstein Trio at Bargemusic on Friday, a concert that was at first canceled when a Fire Department official determined that an exit gangway on the barge was faulty, then reinstated at the last minute when the problem was fixed. Ms. Weilerstein's debut recording next year as a Decca artist will present her in Elgar's Cello Concerto, bracingly paired with Elliott Carter's Cello Concerto (2000), with Daniel Barenboim conducting the Berlin Staatskapelle.
The other fellow from the classical music sphere is Francisco J. Nunez, 46, the founding director of the Young People's Chorus of New York City, which has introduced children from wide-ranging ethnic and economic backgrounds to the joy and discipline of choral singing. Some 1,200 children participate in the group's programs and tours each year. For the last decade, through the group's Transient Glory project, Mr. Nunez has commissioned diverse composers, including major figures, to write works for children's chorus.
There was much to discuss with Mr. Nunez and Ms. Weilerstein, but I could not resist teasing them a bit about their new genius status.
''No, no, I don't really feel like a genius,'' Mr. Nunez said. ''But I definitely feel a little taller.'' Fair enough. But on its Web site, the understandably proud Young People's Chorus does have a prominent news item announcing that Mr. Nunez received a ''prestigious 2011 MacArthur 'Genius' Fellowship Award.''
The foundation provides fellows with talking points for frequently asked questions, Ms. Weilerstein said. And sure enough, the question most asked is, ''Do you feel like a genius?'' One of the suggested answers resonated with Ms. Weilerstein's opinion that the term actually ''limits the scope'' of an artist's achievement.
''Obviously there is natural talent,'' she said. ''But you accomplish things only by working extremely hard.'' The word genius suggests that an artist need only slip into genius mode and out comes the finished product. ''Also,'' Ms. Weilerstein added, ''the award recognizes that our work isn't done. I'm a perpetual student.''
The foundation, in a news release, states that the fellowships are given in recognition of a recipient's ''originality, self-direction and capacity to contribute importantly to society.'' Among the artists in classical music who have received these fellowships in recent years, several common threads emerge.
There are the musicians who cross genres and styles and break down categories; the performers who champion contemporary music; and those artists who excel at communicating with audiences and bringing music to people who have been left out of the cultural loop, especially in poor neighborhoods.
The composer John Zorn, a 2006 fellow, who has drawn from jazz, punk, klezmer, film, cartoon and classical styles, was cited for music ''that defies convention and explores the spaces between and among genres.'' The dynamic violinist Leila Josefowicz, a 2008 fellow, was hailed for ''stretching the mold of the classical violinist in her passionate advocacy of contemporary composers and their work.''
The conductor Marin Alsop, a 2005 fellow, who has been the music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra since 2007, was honored for her ''masterful technique'' and ''visionary programming'' and her ''extraordinary ability to communicate both with her orchestra and audience.'' The soprano Dawn Upshaw, a 2007 fellow, was called a ''master vocalist'' and praised for ''breaking down stylistic barriers and forging a new model for a performer who is directly involved in the creation of contemporary music.''
In jazz there is Dafnis Prieto, a percussionist and composer, who was one of this year's fellows (the only other musician besides Ms. Weilerstein and Mr. Nunez). Like the classical music designees, Mr. Prieto is cited for the breadth of his scope, for melding ''modern jazz harmonies, Cuban clave rhythms, other Latin and African influences and funk-inspired arrangements'' into works of teeming diversity.
All these artists are highly skilled and deserving. Yet with its emphasis on pushing boundaries, transcending categories and contributing to society, the foundation is implicitly acknowledging that these valuable attributes are easier to discern than, say, who is the finest young cellist, based on technical skills, musical insights and interpretive dynamism, which are subjective calls.
Classical music has for too long (and I think, unfairly) been perceived as a specialized art form. Of course it is crucial for composers and performers to reach out, to connect with music and musicians from other genres. Virtuosity and excellence are not enough.
Still, there is a tendency in classical music to overvalue cross-stylistic and genre-blending work. Composers who draw from and mesh widely diverse styles receive immediate credit for doing something daring, as are performers who present their works. It can be much harder to recognize the boldness of a composer who adheres to a specific style and idiom. In the early years of the program, the MacArthur Foundation made a point of singling out some unapologetically modernist composers who had scant interest in stylistic crossbreeding, like Milton Babbitt, Ralph Shapey and Charles Wuorinen.
But this is more an observation than a complaint. Any fellowship that recognizes the vibrancy of an idealistic musician like Ms. Weilerstein or the important work that Mr. Nunez has been doing far from circles of celebrity deserves a salute from everyone in classical music.
So, what are they going to do with the cash?
Ms. Weilerstein said she was relieved that the first installment would not arrive until January. ''I haven't come up with a solution as of now,'' she said. ''I'm still in the overwhelmed and shocked phase. It's a huge amount of money and a huge responsibility.''
She recently performed Dvorak's Cello Concerto with Ms. Alsop and the Baltimore Symphony. She is impressed, she said, that Ms. Alsop used some of her own fellowship as seed money for ORCHKids, the Baltimore Symphony's after-school educational program aimed at creating social change through music training for children in Baltimore. ''Projects like that totally inspire me,'' Ms. Weilerstein said.
About his plans, Mr. Nunez said, ''I feel I have a spotlight on me, and I have to do something really incredible.'' On the other hand, he added, ''I feel I have to continue to do what I'm doing.''
A MacArthur fellowship offers an artist the chance to think big, Mr. Nunez said. But big could easily become overblown. ''Do I fake myself out and come up with the next new concept?'' he asked. ''Or do I just be myself? I believe in myself and my past.''
His tours with the chorus have profoundly affected him, he added. ''When I take children to places from Rio to Tokyo, they come back so much bigger,'' he said. ''I want more of that.''
Born in New York, Mr. Nunez moved with his parents to the Dominican Republic, where his mother, a factory worker, was his first piano teacher. When his father died, he and his mother returned to New York and faced hardship.
''I'm from poverty, a single mother earning $8 an hour,'' Mr. Nunez said. ''I want to fight poverty through music. I know that sounds romantic, but I've seen it happen.'' Music, he added, ''brought me out of the barrio.''
That is certainly thinking big. And more power to him. But I was equally touched by what the self-effacing Ms. Weilerstein said about making a contribution through her work.
''Hopefully what I do by playing concerts and being the best artist I can be,'' she said, ''is a contribution to society.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cellist Alisa Weilerstein and the conductor Francisco J. Nunez, recipients of MacArthur grants this year.(C1)
Francisco J. Nunez conducting his Young People's Chorus of New York City at this year's Sept. 11 memorial concert at St. Patrick's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Alisa Weilerstein appearing at Carnegie Hall in April as cello soloist with the St. Petersburg Philharmonic Orchestra. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); WRITERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (64%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



139 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Molycorp Set to Announce A Rare Earth Rediscovery

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
An all-but-forgotten rocky outcropping in Southern California contains ore that could help break the country's dependence on China for certain types of rare earth metals, according to the only American producer of rare earths.
The deposit contains so-called heavy rare earths, according to the company, Molycorp, which plans to announce its finding Tuesday at a conference in Washington sponsored by the Energy Department, the European Commission and Japan's trade ministry. 
Rare earths -- both the ''light'' and ''heavy'' varieties -- are vital to a range of green-energy technologies, including compact fluorescent light bulbs, hybrid-electric vehicles and wind-power turbines.
An Energy Department report released in December 2010 warned that disruptions in imports of crucial minerals, particularly heavy rare earths, could damage the American economy.
Despite their name, rare earths are fairly abundant in the earth's crust. But heavy rare earths -- which have more protons in their atomic nuclei than light rare earths -- are far less common, and now sell for up to $2,600 a pound. Many industrial uses of light rare earths require them to be mixed with tiny quantities of heavy ones, like dysprosium or terbium, so that the light rare earths do not lose their magnetism at higher temperatures.
China, which currently mines most of the world's rare earths of both types, has a chokehold on heavy rare earths, producing 99 percent of the global supply.
In its report last December, the Energy Department said it could take up to 15 years for the United States to break dependence on China, based on how long it might take to obtain federal permission to open new mines and processing plants. Winning such permission can be arduous because rare earth refineries produce thousands of tons a year of low-level radioactive waste.
But Molycorp's chief executive, Mark Smith, said in a telephone interview Monday that the company might be able to begin producing heavy rare earths in a little over a year from now. That is because the ore deposit is on land near Mountain Pass, Calif., near the Nevada border, where the company has been mining since the early 1950s and has regulatory approval to continue mining and refining for decades.
Mr. Smith said that the ore is near the surface and would require very little strip mining.
Molycorp, moreover, has already started building an enormous new rare earth refinery at Mountain Pass to replace its aging refinery. The new plant, to be opened in stages between late next year and the end of 2014, is intended to process either light or heavy rare earths.
The company still needs to do extensive test drilling to determine the quality and quantity of the rare earth ore. But rather than wait for the test results, Mr. Smith acknowledged that Molycorp was announcing the deposit now partly to reassure manufacturers that adequate supplies of heavy rare earths would be available in the near future -- in hopes of discouraging manufacturers from seeking alternative materials, as some have already begun to do.
Molycorp's stock price has fallen by more than 60 percent since early May, to a close of $30.16 on Monday, as analysts have lowered their forecasts for manufacturers' use of rare earths because of China's virtual monopoly on supplies.
Geologists first noted the outcropping in 1950 while mapping the area around what is now the Mountain Pass mine. But back then, Unocal, the oil company that acquired the mine, was mainly interested in light rare earths used in either oil refining or color televisions.
So the company began mining a nearby lanthanum-rich deposit instead. Information on the heavy-ore outcropping eventually became buried in Unocal's vast archive of maps and mineral analyses from rare earth deposits around the world, said John L. Burba, Molycorp's executive vice president and chief technology officer.
Through the 1980s, Unocal employed more than 40 full-time geologists to scour the world for rare earth deposits and analyze them. After Chevron acquired Unocal in 2005, it spun off the rare earth division as Molycorp, which now has geologists sifting through the archives. Their work eventually prompted a new look at Mountain Pass.
Molycorp has watched as automakers like General Motors and Toyota and a variety of chemical companies have said in the past month that they were looking at ways to reduce sharply their rare earth usage. Lightweight electric motors for hybrid cars can be designed without rare earths, for example, although with some sacrifice of power and efficiency.
Dudley Kingsnorth, a consultant and retired top industry executive whose rare earth supply and demand models are widely used, last month reduced his forecast of demand in 2015 to 170,000 tons, from 190,000 to 195,000 tons.
That reduction, combined with a shift of factories using rare earths to China from the West and Japan, has contributed to a steep decline in prices for the 17 rare earth elements -- even the heavy types. Prices have fallen by about one-fourth since July, after rising several fold in the first half of this year, according to Metal-Pages, an industry data firm in London.
Molycorp has ambitious plans to become the world's largest single producer of light rare earths by the end of 2014, overtaking Lynas of Australia, which hopes to open a large refinery in Malaysia later this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Molycorp is preparing to replace an aging refinery near the site where it rediscovered rare earths. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISC METAL MINING (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SURFACE MINING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); MOUNTAINS (75%); NUCLEAR WASTE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%); HYBRID VEHICLES (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%)

COMPANY: MOLYCORP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: MCP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



140 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Buyout Firms To Acquire Drug Concern

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
7:02 p.m. Updated
The buyout firms Carlyle Group and Hellman & Friedman struck one of the largest private equity deals of 2011, agreeing to buy the clinical research company Pharmaceutical Product Development for $3.9 billion. 
The acquisition, which was announced Monday, will pay the company's owners $33.25 a share, 30 percent above the stock's closing price on Friday. The deal was a rare bright spot on a gloomy day on Wall Street. Shares of Pharmaceutical Product Development ended up 25.8 percent, at $32.28, on a day when the broader stock market tumbled.
Pharmaceutical Product Development, based in Wilmington, N.C., provides outsourced clinical research and laboratory services to drug companies. It is a hot business. The world's largest pharmaceutical companies, as their profit margins come under pressure and the cost of getting drugs approved has increased, have gradually shifted some of their research and development activities to outside contractors. Private equity firms are also attracted to these companies for their relatively stable cash flow, allowing the firms to easily borrow money to finance their purchases.
Among Pharmaceutical Product Development's chief competitors is Quintiles Transnational, a big manager of clinical trials based in nearby Research Triangle Park, N.C. Quintiles has been owned for nearly a decade by private equity firms. Bain Capital, TPG Capital and 3i Group now control the company alongside its founder, Dennis B. Gillings.
Last year, Thomas H. Lee bought InVentiv Health, a pharmaceutical support company, for $1.1 billion. In a recent deal, Avista Capital Partners led the $230 million acquisition of Kendle International, a clinical researcher, and combined it with INC Research, a company in the area that it already owned.
A number of the largest buyouts since the financial crisis have been in the health care industry. In the biggest private equity deal this year, a group of funds led by Apax Partners bought Kinetic Concepts, a provider of wound treatments, for $6.3 billion. In 2009, TPG and a Canadian pension fund acquired IMS Health, a provider of health care data, for $4 billion.
The Pharmaceutical Product Development buyout is welcome news for the private equity business, which has undergone a slowdown in activity as the stock market has swooned and bank shares have tumbled. Carlyle and Hellman needed to tap four banks - Credit Suisse, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and UBS - to secure financing for the deal.
The clinical research business has been a boon to North Carolina's Research Triangle, a cluster of academic and business institutions. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has been a beneficiary of the industry's success.
Pharmaceutical Product Development, founded 25 years ago by Fred Eshelman, employs 11,000. Mr. Eshelman graduated in 1972 from the pharmacy school of the University of North Carolina, a school that now bears his name after he donated $20 million to the university.
Right next door to the U.N.C. Eshelman School of Pharmacy is the U.N.C. Gillings School of Global Public Health, named after Mr. Gillings, the founder of Quintiles, who in 2008 donated $50 million to the school.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (93%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHARMACISTS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); OUTSOURCING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CASH FLOW (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); WOUND CARE (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%)

COMPANY: AVISTA CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); KENDLE INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (55%); INVENTIV HEALTH INC (54%); 3I GROUP PLC (54%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%); III (LSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (92%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



141 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: A Manifesto for the Wall Street Protesters

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Wall Street Occupiers, Protesting Till Whenever'' (front page, Oct. 1) notes that the protesters lack a manifesto. How about this: 
Eighty years ago, the American economy was in crisis, created by our boom-bust financial system.
Twenty years, some progressive legislation and a global conflict later, we'd managed to balance capitalism with a new social contract, and America became the most productive nation on earth. Workers enjoyed world-class educations, job security, good pay, health care and secure pensions.
The highest tax rate was 90 percent, and the ratio of executive-to-worker pay was 24 to 1. Over the last few decades, the social contract has unraveled. Productivity per work hour has increased dramatically, but workers' wages have been stagnant, while corporate profits have skyrocketed and executive pay is now hundreds of times the average employee's. We the people can't wait 20 years. (And who wants another global conflict?) We do want progressive legislation.
We don't need to destroy job-creating capitalism. We do need to restore the balance of the social contract so all Americans can help the economy grow.
RICHARD KENT GREEN New York, Oct. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
There is something about the largely youthful protesters in the Wall Street area that brings to mind the hopefulness of the Arab Spring.
Finally, after years of economic dislocation, grossly inequitable distribution of wealth, dead-end jobs or no jobs and crushing debt to pay for their overpriced educations, American young people have risen up to protest publicly against the same abuses and inequities that you write about virtually every day.
Yet there was a surprisingly condescending tone to your article. Are they ''rabble rousers'' simply because they are protesting? Their encampment is a ''hodgepodge'' instead of a manicured garden? Their occupation of the site is ''noisy'' rather than somnolent?
And they feel the financial system is ''inequitable,'' but you do not?
You should applaud these protesters instead of carping from the sidelines.
EDWARD B. CONE New York, Oct. 1, 2011
To the Editor:
In ''Hippies and Hipsters Exhale'' (column, Oct. 1), Charles M. Blow delineates findings of Gallup polls that demonstrate record-high dissatisfaction with government. He also tells us, ''There can be little doubt that there is a disaffected constituency that desperately wants something to rally around.''
The ''clarion call'' Mr. Blow refers to will most likely emerge from among the young. It is they who have the energy, idealism and grasp of the technology that have led to the demand for change in other areas of the world.
Too many of our young people cannot find suitable employment commensurate with their levels of education. History teaches us that it is this group that is least likely to tolerate injustice.
JOHN A. VITERITTI Southold, N.Y., Oct. 1, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''The Bankers and the Revolutionaries,'' by Nicholas D. Kristof (column, Oct. 2): If parallels can be drawn between the Occupy Wall Street protests and the Arab Spring, an interesting distinction is that demonstrators here have identified the financial bloc and not government as the seat of power.
SAMUEL REIFLER Rhinebeck, N.Y., Oct. 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



142 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Data Shows Some Growth in U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Fresh reports Monday showed American manufacturing in September and construction spending in August were better than expected, signaling the economy was not slowing as much as some analysts had feared. 
Manufacturing, as measured by factory activity, expanded at a faster pace than expected as production and hiring increased. The Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity rose to 51.6 points last month from 50.6 in August.
September marked the 26th consecutive month of expansion in a sector that has shouldered the broader economic recovery.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected the index to edge down to 50.5 points. A reading above 50 indicates expansion manufacturing.
Construction spending unexpectedly rebounded 1.4 percent in August, to an annual rate of $799.15 billion, from a drop in July as outlays on state and local government building projects rose sharply, the Commerce Department said.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast a 0.3 percent drop after July construction spending fell by a revised 1.4 percent.
Private construction spending in August rose 0.4 percent, with residential spending up 0.7 percent and nonresidential spending up 0.2 percent. Spending on public construction rose a strong 3.1 percent, registering its biggest monthly gain since February 2009. State and local spending rose 3.5 percent, while federal construction spending fell 0.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (93%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); STATISTICS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



143 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ARSON AT MOSQUEIN ISRAELI ARAB VILLAGE
A mosque in an Arab village in northern Israel was set on fire in what the police called an arson attack, and an outside wall was defaced with Hebrew graffiti. The attack followed a series of assaults on mosques in the West Bank seen as part of a campaign by arsonists suspected of being radical Jewish settlers. Page A4
OZONE HOLE OVER ARCTIC 
Intense cold in the upper atmosphere of the Arctic last winter activated ozone-depleting chemicals and produced the first significant ozone hole ever recorded over the high northern regions, scientists reported in the journal Nature. At its maximum extent in February, the report said, the northern ozone hole reached southward into Russia and Mongolia. Page A9
National
NEW E-MAILS REVEAL
EARLY SOLYNDRA CONCERNS
Some White House officials were so concerned last year about the financial health of Solyndra, a solar equipment manufacturer that had received federal loans, that they warned that a presidential trip to the company's California factory could prove a major embarrassment, newly disclosed e-mails show. Page A17
New York
OFFBEAT CORPORATE GIFT:
A PEANUT-INSPIRED PARK
In an act of corporate philanthropy, and maybe self-promotion, Planters, the snack brand owned by Kraft Foods, developed and paid for Planters Grove, a new park on the Lower East Side. Page A25
TRIAL OVER PRISON RULES
A convicted terrorist's First Amendment challenge to rules barring him from almost all communications with outsiders has been allowed to proceed to trial, in a ruling that appears to be a rare setback to the government in cases involving the treatment of high-security inmates. Page A23
Fashion
AT THE EDGE OF WIT
AND IRREVERENCE
There's a lot of promising new fashion to see off the runways in Paris, writes Eric Wilson, as Silvina Maestro, Hermes and Stella McCartney show their spring 2012 collections. Fashion Reviews. Page A21
Obituaries
ALEXANDER GRANT, 86
He was a dancer with the Royal Ballet, whose portrayal of childlike suitors, muddled husbands, English eccentrics, pirate chiefs and Shakespearean rustics made him one of British ballet's most beloved stars. Page A20
Business
AUTOMOBILE SALES RISE,
DEFYING GLOOMY ECONOMY
Auto sales defied a downcast economy in September, climbing 9.9 percent, to their highest level in five months, as new models arrived at dealerships and inventory shortages eased. All three Detroit automakers reported gains, led by a 27.2 percent year-over-year increase for Chrysler. Page B2
Sports
N.F.L. COMMITTEE PLANS
NEW CONCUSSION STUDY
Nearly two years after the N.F.L.'s unsuccessful attempt at a long-range study on the effects of concussions was shut down, the league's committee on concussion research is planning a considerably broader study -- an effort that could begin gathering data as soon as next season. Page B13
Arts
A HOLOCAUST TALE,
WITH A TWIST
Stories of the Holocaust have been documented, distorted and filtered through memory. Yet new stories keep coming, occasionally altering the incomplete mosaic of Holocaust history. ''Les Hommes Libres,'' a French film released in Paris last week, focuses on an unlikely savior of Jews during the Nazi occupation of France. Page C1
Science
STUDY CITES INCREASE
IN CANCERS FROM HPV
Researchers report that throat cancers caused by the human papilloma virus, transmitted during oral sex, have increased significantly in the United States. The researchers estimated that over all, throat cancers caused by the virus have increased to 2.6 per 100,000 people in 2004, from 0.8 cases per 100,000 people in 1988. Page D5
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE 23
Frank Bruni PAGE 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARSON (93%); OZONE DEPLETION (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (84%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); RELIGION (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (71%); LITIGATION (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); PRISONS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); NEW CAR MODELS (65%); SNACK FOODS (65%); BRAIN INJURIES (62%); BALLET (61%); DANCERS (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); ARCTIC (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



144 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Senate Proposes Punishing China for Low Currency Value

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate, seizing on the argument that the American jobs crisis is partly China's fault, voted Monday to move forward with tough trade legislation that would impose tariffs on some Chinese goods to punish Beijing for keeping its currency artificially depressed.
The bill, which faces an uphill battle from both the Republican-controlled House and a reluctant White House, would require the Treasury Department to determine whether China is manipulating its currency, and then order the Commerce Department to impose retaliatory tariffs on certain Chinese goods. 
China intervenes in currency markets to keep the value of its currency, the renminbi, artificially low, which makes Chinese goods cheaper in the United States -- a practice that lawmakers and some economists say undercuts American businesses and worsens the nation's jobless rate.
''Trade has helped us export our values of a free democratic society,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama and one of the bill's co-sponsors, ''but like democracy itself, trade must operate under a set of rules and values.''
The measure, which goes further than a similar version that passed the Democratic-controlled House last year, cleared an initial procedural hurdle in the Senate on a 79-19 vote, with 16 Republicans and three Democrats opposed. It faces more debate before a final vote. The legislation would require the Treasury to use a lower standard for determining whether China's currency was misaligned, prompting higher duties on Chinese imports. The Obama administration has pushed China to let its currency rise in value, but has stopped short of labeling it a manipulator.
While the debate over China's currency is several years old, it has taken on new urgency amid a three-way race among the White House, House and Senate to write legislation to revive the job market. Senate Democrats, like Charles E. Schumer of New York, have chosen trade, a populist issue, while working behind the scenes to find a way to make President Obama's jobs bill, which includes tax increases, more palatable to their members.
''This is a jobs bill because it is about American competitiveness,'' said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, another co-sponsor. Noting that auto suppliers have lost bids to Chinese companies because of the currency, she said leveling the playing field would create 1.6 million American jobs.
But while the Chinese currency measure enjoys Republican support in the Senate, it is viewed less favorably in the House, where Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is expected to offer his own less aggressive version later this year. Some lawmakers fear that the measure would cause a trade war at a time when China has moved slowly to increase the value of its currency.
Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and the House majority leader, said the bill could have ''unintended consequences,'' contributing perhaps to an increase in consumer prices.
The measure also puts the White House, which has recorded only limited success in lobbying China, in a tough spot. The press secretary, Jay Carney, said China's currency had not gone up enough, but added, ''We need to make sure that if we are pursuing this goal, a goal that we share with members of Congress, we need to do it in a way that's consistent with our international obligations and is effective.''
The vote drew criticism from some lawmakers who said that at a time of economic crisis, the Senate had gotten its priorities wrong.
Similar criticisms came from some in the business community, who said that punishing China would not create more jobs at home, and would distract attention from more urgent issues, like lack of market access.
''Much of what we import from China is stuff we imported from somewhere else before that,'' said John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council, who noted that as costs rise in China, companies would simply move their factories to even cheaper countries. ''If this is a jobs bill, it is a jobs bill for Vietnam.''
The renminbi has risen about 6 percent against the dollar since China loosened its peg in June 2010. Economists estimate it is still undervalued by 25 percent relative to the dollar. That disparity has spiked in recent weeks, as the dollar has risen, after a prolonged period of decline, because of the debt crisis in Europe.
China continues to run yawning trade surpluses with the United States: $273 billion in 2010, compared with $83 billion a decade earlier. But China's trade surplus has declined, as a percentage of its overall economy, since 2007 -- a trend that Chinese officials cite to argue that it is gradually moving to a market exchange rate.
''They say they're on a glide path to currency equilibrium,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, an expert in the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. With growth slowing in China, Mr. Lardy said it was highly unlikely that Beijing would risk anything that would slow its export engine.
Over time, tensions between the United States and China have shifted from the exchange rate to other issues, like intellectual property rights and measures that bar American companies from access to the Chinese market. Worries about currency have also waned as American corporations have established their own factories in China, enabling them to benefit from its cheap currency.
In a new survey of its members, the U.S.-China Business Council found that exchange rates ranked 27th on a list of concerns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer, left, and Senator Jeff Sessions spoke about the vote on trade legislation on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TAX LAW (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (73%); DEBBIE STABENOW (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



145 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Early White House Concerns Were Seen on Solyndra

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Some White House officials were so concerned last year about the financial health of Solyndra, a solar equipment manufacturer that had received federal loans, that they warned that a presidential trip to the company's California factory could prove a major embarrassment, newly disclosed e-mails show.
The e-mails, gathered as part of a Congressional investigation into the Department of Energy loan program, offer new insight into just how worried administration officials were about the $528 million loan to Solyndra, which is now in bankruptcy, as well as other government efforts, amounting to $16 billion in loan guarantees, to promote clean energy. The warnings came from both inside the White House -- an official in the Office of Management and Budget wrote that the visit could be ''embarrassing in the not too distant future'' -- as well as from private investors, including one Democratic campaign contributor who wrote to the White House the day before the president's May 2010 visit to Solyndra to urge officials to reconsider the trip. 
''I just want to help protect the president from anything that could result in negative or unfair press,'' Steve Westly, a California venture capitalist and an Obama contributor, wrote in May 2010 to Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to the president. ''If it's too late to change/postpone the meeting, the president should be careful about unrealistic/optimistic forecasts that could haunt him in the next 18 months if Solyndra hits the wall, files for bankruptcy, etc.''
The Solyndra loan, which was completed in September 2009 and could cost taxpayers a half-billion dollars, has come under Congressional scrutiny since the company declared bankruptcy last month. The business is also under investigation for possible fraud by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. Obama defended the government's investment on Monday, saying that ''hindsight is 20/20'' and the fact that the program involved risk was generally well known. In an interview with ABC News, he also said that the overall portfolio of loan guarantees was ''doing well.''
In releasing the new e-mails, Democrats said they were seeking to demonstrate that there was no evidence of political favoritism toward Solyndra, whose investors include a foundation run by a major fund-raiser for Mr. Obama, a connection that Congressional Republicans have emphasized. The e-mails, though, do provide new evidence of a concern by lawmakers that the broader loan guarantee program might be troubled.
A Solyndra investor, in an e-mail sent to the White House in late 2009, asked why the government had been willing to offer the solar start-up so much money.
''One of our solar companies with revenues of less than $100 million (and not yet profitable) received a government loan of $580 million,'' the investor, Brad Jones of Redpoint Ventures, wrote in December 2009 to Lawrence H. Summers, then the president's chief economic adviser, referring to Solyndra. ''While that is good for us, I can't imagine it's a good way for the government to use taxpayer money.''
The investment, Mr. Jones said, demonstrated broad problems with the government loan program. ''The allocation of spending to clean energy is haphazard; the government is just not well equipped to decide which companies should get the money and how much,'' he wrote.
Mr. Summers wrote back that he shared some of the same concerns, before offering a partial defense of the government effort.
''I relate well to your view that gov is a crappy vc,'' Mr. Summers wrote, using a shorthand for venture capitalist. ''But suppose we think there are all kinds of externalities to renewable investments. What should we do?''
An Energy Department spokesman said on Monday that regardless of criticism by some aides at the Office and Management and Budget about how the loan program was being managed, the e-mails make clear that everyone involved knew upfront that the program involved risks, as it is designed to encourage investments in clean energy programs that could not otherwise attract enough private financing.
''These e-mails show that the administration was aware of those risks, and that decisions were based on more than two years of rigorous analysis and due diligence by career officials spanning two administrations,'' said the spokesman, Damien LaVera, in a statement.
Officials at the Office of Management and Budget -- part of the White House -- were particularly concerned at what they considered the poor job that the Department of Energy was doing in monitoring the loan deals after they were finalized.
''D.O.E.'s 'system' for monitoring loans is quite problematic (barely any review of materials submitted, no synthesis for program management, inherent conflicts in origination team members monitoring the deals they structured, etc) and does not seem to be a program priority,'' one Management and Budget official wrote in the spring of 2010.
The most alarming issue for the White House official was evidence that Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy last month, was headed toward a collapse even in early 2010. It led the Management and Budget officials to predict problems with companies getting loan guarantees.
''What's terrifying is that after looking at some of the ones that came next, this one started to look better,'' said one April 2010 e-mail, referring to the Solyndra decision, and others that followed. ''Bad days are coming.''
Ultimately, despite the warnings about the trip to Solyndra's factory, White House aides approved the May 2010 stop by Mr. Obama, after consulting with the Department of Energy, where officials assured White House that the company appeared safe, at least for the time being.
''There are some risk factors here -- but that's true of any innovative company that Potus would visit,'' Ronald Klain, the chief of staff to the vice president, wrote Ms. Jarrett on May 24, 2010, recommending that the visit the next day go ahead. ''It looks like it is OK to me.''
The dispute was summarized in a seven-page report by the Democratic minority staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, based on 685 pages of documents from the Office of Management and Budget and 27 pages from the White House. The Democrats' view of the documents, mostly e-mails, was that they showed a ''vigorous internal debate'' involving senior members of the administration, and that the decisions were made ''with no regard to the identity of the private investors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On May 26, 2010, President Obama visited a Solyndra plant in Fremont, Calif. Some had urged the president not to make the trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



146 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Sell-Off Sends American Air Down 33%

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Shares in American Airlines' parent company tumbled 33 percent on Monday on fears that the airline could be forced into bankruptcy as a slowing economy reduced demand for seats on its planes. 
The sell-off reflected investors' increasing nervousness that American Airlines, with high debt levels and high labor costs, might be too weak to weather another economic downturn. Its competitors, meanwhile, have consolidated and strengthened their share of the airline market.
The decline on Monday was the steepest drop for American's parent, the AMR Corporation, in a decade, and it precipitated a general sell-off in airline stocks throughout the day. AMR shares closed at $1.98 after setting off repeated automatic trading halts meant to prevent widespread losses. Still, Delta Air Lines and United Continental Holdings both fell more than 11 percent, and US Airways lost nearly 16 percent.
Even before Monday's drop, American's shares were down 62 percent since the start of the year. The severity of the decline, which sent the stock price to its lowest level since 2003, forced the carrier to dismiss speculation that it might be considering a prepackaged bankruptcy.
''Regarding rumors and speculation about a court-supervised restructuring, that is certainly not our goal or our preference,'' Andrew Backover, a company spokesman, said in a statement. ''We need to improve our results, and we are keenly focused as we work to achieve that.''
Most network airlines have gone to bankruptcy court in the last decade, sometimes repeatedly, to restructure their obligations and rewrite contracts as fuel prices soared and the industry struggled against low-cost competitors. American, however, managed to avoid filing for bankruptcy after obtaining major concessions from its labor groups.
The strategy still left the airline with higher operating costs than the other legacy carriers, including pension obligations, higher labor costs and less flexible work rules for its pilots. American has struggled in recent years to make up that gap, posting losses for much of the decade even as other airlines managed to turn a profit last year.
But even as Wall Street has grown impatient with the company's troubles, some analysts did not think it was under any immediate duress to restructure.
AMR's total debt was $17.1 billion at the end of the second quarter, up from $16.1 billion in the same period last year. But the company was still able to raise money last month when it completed a $725.7 million 10-year bond offering.
The airline said last month that it would end the third quarter with $4.2 billion in cash. It is expected to post a loss of $110 million in the third quarter.
Some analysts said the sell-off had been set off by news that an exceptionally large number of American pilots had taken an early retirement offer last week and opted for a lump-sum payment on their pension.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BONDS (77%); MARKET SHARE (74%); BOND ISSUES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); EARLY RETIREMENT (62%)

COMPANY: AMR CORP (97%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (97%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



147 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Your Soaring Insurance Premiums: Don't blame health care reform, which offers the best hope for restraint

 BODY:
Annual premiums for employer-sponsored health coverage soared by 9 percent for families and 8 percent for individuals this year from 2010, far faster than wages or inflation. Republicans, predictably, blamed health care reform for contributing to the rise. In fact, the reforms accounted for only 1.5 percentage points of the increase this year. The value to millions of Americans who are already getting expanded coverage and benefits is undeniable. 
So what is driving up insurance premiums? The main factors, analysts say, were increased medical care costs and higher profits for insurance companies, which charged a lot more in premiums than they paid out for medical services. Both problems are being addressed by the health care reforms. But, clearly, they will require even more vigorous attention.
This latest survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust found that the average total family premium climbed above $15,000 in 2011, with the worker paying roughly $4,100 and the employer about $10,900. Since the survey started in 1999, worker contributions to premiums have increased 168 percent, while wages have gone up 50 percent.
The two reforms that affected premiums -- together making up about one-sixth of the 9 percent premium increase for a family plan -- required that parents be allowed to keep children up to age 26 on their policies and that many insurance plans cover preventive services like cancer screening and immunizations at no cost to patients. Some 2.3 million young adults were enrolled on parental policies and 28 million workers (plus their dependents) benefited from preventive care provisions.
The reform law has two provisions that kicked in this year and could help hold down premiums in 2012. Insurers will have to spend at least 80 percent to 85 percent of their premiums on medical care, which will force them to keep the premiums closer to their claim payments. And insurers seeking rate increases of 10 percent or more in the individual and small-group markets must disclose and justify their proposed rates, allowing state regulators an opportunity to reject them or force them down.
The reform law also provides $250 million for grants to help states strengthen their ability to challenge insurers' rate requests. Only about half the states give insurance commissioners power to veto rates deemed excessive; all should allow regulators to reject unfair increases before they happen.
For the longer term, the reform law will create a slew of pilot projects in Medicare to find ways to reduce the cost of delivering care. Any effective strategy should be pushed quickly into the private sector. Until the underlying health care costs are reduced, it will be hard to hold premiums down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (92%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); VETO (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); CANCER (68%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



148 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: After Ruling, Hispanics Flee an Alabama Town

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
ALBERTVILLE, Ala. -- The vanishing began Wednesday night, the most frightened families packing up their cars as soon as they heard the news.
They left behind mobile homes, sold fully furnished for a thousand dollars or even less. Or they just closed up and, in a gesture of optimism, left the keys with a neighbor. Dogs were fed one last time; if no home could be found, they were simply unleashed.
Two, 5, 10 years of living here, and then gone in a matter of days, to Tennessee, Illinois, Oregon, Florida, Arkansas, Mexico -- who knows? Anywhere but Alabama.
The exodus of Hispanic immigrants began just hours after a federal judge in Birmingham upheld most provisions of the state's far-reaching immigration enforcement law. 
The judge, Sharon Lovelace Blackburn, upheld the parts of the law allowing state and local police to ask for immigration papers during routine traffic stops, rendering most contracts with illegal immigrants unenforceable and requiring schools to ascertain the immigration status of children at registration time.
When Judge Blackburn was finished, Alabama was left with what the governor called ''the strongest immigration law in this country.'' It went into effect immediately, though her ruling is being appealed by the Justice Department and a coalition of civil rights groups.
In the days since, school superintendents have reassured parents -- one even did so on television in Spanish -- that nothing had changed for children who were already enrolled. Wary police departments around the state said they were, for now, awaiting instructions on how to carry out the law.
For many immigrants, however, waiting seemed just too dangerous. By Monday afternoon, 123 students had withdrawn from the schools in this small town in the northern hills, leaving behind teary and confused classmates. Scores more were absent. Statewide, 1,988 Hispanic students were absent on Friday, about 5 percent of the entire Hispanic population of the school system.
John Weathers, an Albertville businessman who rents and has sold houses to many Hispanic residents, said his occupancy had suddenly dropped by a quarter and might drop further, depending on what happens in the next week. Two people who had paid off their mortgages called him asking if they could sell back their homes, Mr. Weathers said.
Grocery stores and restaurants were noticeably less busy, which in some cases may be just as well, because some employees stopped showing up. In certain neighborhoods the streets are uncommonly quiet, like the aftermath of some sort of rapture.
Drawn by work in the numerous poultry processing plants, Hispanic immigrants have been coming to Albertville for years, long enough ago that some of the older ones gained amnesty under the immigration law of 1986. But the influx picked up over the last decade, and the signs on Main Street are now mostly bilingual, when they include English at all.
What the new immigration law means on a large scale will become clearest in a place like Albertville, whether it will deliver jobs to citizens and protect taxpayers as promised or whether it will spell economic disaster as opponents fear.
Critics of the law, particularly farmers, contractors and home builders, say the measure has already been devastating, leaving rotting crops in fields and critical shortages of labor. They say that even fully documented Hispanic workers are leaving, an assessment that seems to be borne out in interviews here. The legal status of family members is often mixed -- children are often American-born citizens -- but the decision whether to stay rests on the weakest link.
Backers of the law acknowledge that it might be disruptive in the short term, but say it will prove effective over time.
''It's going to take some time for the local labor pool to develop again,'' said State Senator Arthur Orr, Republican of Decatur, ''but outside labor shouldn't come in and just beat them every time on cost and put them out of business.''
Mr. Orr said there were already signs that the law was working, pointing out that the work-release center in Decatur, about 50 miles to the northwest, was not so long ago unable to find jobs for inmates with poultry processors or home manufacturers. Since the law was enacted in June, he said, the center has been placing more and more inmates in these jobs, now more than 150 a day.
On Monday morning, one of the poultry processing plants in Albertville had a job fair, attracting an enormous crowd, a mix of Hispanic, black and white job-seekers, lining up outside the plant and down the street.
''This needed to be done years ago,'' Shannon Lolling, 36, who has been unemployed for over a year, said of the law.
Mr. Lolling's problem seemed to be with the system that had brought the illegal-immigrant workers here, not with the workers themselves.
''That's why our jobs went south to Mexico,'' he said. ''They pay them less wages and pocket the money, keep us from having jobs.''
Not far from the plant, in the Hispanic neighborhoods, it is hard to differentiate the silence of the workday, the silence of abandonment or the silence of paralyzing fear.
Many Hispanics have chosen to stay for now, saying, with little apparent conviction, that the law will surely be blocked by the president, the judge, ''the government.'' Until then, they are not leaving their homes unless absolutely necessary. They send others to buy their groceries and tell their children to quit the soccer team and to come home right after school. Rumors of raids and roadblocks are rampant, and though the new law has nothing to say about such things, distrust is primed by anecdotes, like one told by a local Hispanic pastor who said he was pulled over outside Birmingham on Wednesday, within hours of the ruling. His friend who was driving -- and who is in the United States illegally -- is now in jail on an unrelated misdemeanor charge, the pastor said, adding that while he was let go, a policeman told him he was no longer welcome in Alabama.
''I am afraid to drive to church.,'' a 54-year-old poultry plant worker named Candelaria said, adding, ''The lady that gives me a ride to work said she is leaving. She said she felt like a prisoner.''
All summer long, Allen Stoner, a lawyer in Decatur, has been helping his Hispanic clients fill out forms appointing friends or family members as guardians of their children, who are in many cases American-born citizens. This way, the children would not be transferred to social services if the parents were arrested and deported.
Much of this was done by the time the judge's ruling came down, though last week Mr. Stoner's clients began to contact him immediately to ask what they should be doing. Monday was quiet.
''We had a lot of phone calls Thursday and Friday,'' Mr. Stoner said, ''but it has plummeted.''
He did not know for sure, but he figured his clients were gone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Herring applied for a job Monday at Wayne Farms in Albertville. Many of the company's Hispanic workers have left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
William Gaspar, 9
Eric Badillo, 11
Angel Garcia, 10
and Elias Gaspar, 10, played soccer Monday in Albertville, Ala. Senator Scott Beason, at left, was a sponsor of the state's immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JULIE BENNETT/MONTGOMERY ADVERTISER) (A16) MAP: Albertville, Ala., has had a large Hispanic population. (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); JUDGES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); EDUCATION LAW (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); MULTILINGUALISM (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); POULTRY PROCESSING (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (72%) ALABAMA, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



149 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Alabama's Shame: A harsh immigration law spreads fear and punishes the vulnerable

 BODY:
Only about 3.5 percent of Alabama's population is foreign-born, according to the Census Bureau. Undocumented immigrants made up roughly 4.2 percent of its work force in 2010, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. But the drafters of Alabama's harsh immigration law wanted to turn their state into the country's most hostile territory for illegal immigrants. They are succeeding, as many of Alabama's most vulnerable residents can attest. 
The law went into effect over the weekend, after being largely upheld by a federal district judge. Volunteers on an immigrant-rights group's hot line said that since then they have received more than 1,000 calls from pregnant women afraid to go to the hospital, crime victims afraid to go the police, parents afraid to send their children to school.
School superintendents and principals across the state confirm that attendance of Hispanic children has dropped noticeably since the word went out that school officials are now required to check the immigration status of newly enrolled students and their parents.
That rule is part of the law's sweeping attempt to curtail the rights and complicate the lives of people without papers, making them unable to enter contracts, find jobs, rent homes or access government services. In other words, to be isolated, unemployable, poor, defenseless and uneducated.
The education crackdown is particularly senseless and unconstitutional. In 1982, the Supreme Court found that all children living in the United States have the right to a public education, whatever their immigration status. The justices' reasoning was shaped not by compassion but practicality: it does the country no good to perpetuate an uneducated underclass.
Officials in Alabama -- some well meaning, others less so -- insisted that nothing in the new law is intended to deny children an education. School districts, they noted, are supposed to collect only numbers of children without papers, not names.
''I don't know where the misinformation's coming from,'' Alabama's interim state school superintendent, Larry Craven, told NPR. ''If you have difficulty understanding the language anyway, then who knows what they're being told?'' With comments like that, it's not surprising that any of ''them'' would be frightened.
The Obama administration was right to sue to try to stop the Alabama law. It needs to press ahead with its appeal of the ruling and challenge similar laws in Utah, Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina.
President Obama needs to show stronger leadership in defending core American values in the face of the hostility that has overtaken Alabama and so many other states. He can start by scrapping the Secure Communities program, which encourages local immigration dragnets and reinforces the false notion that most undocumented immigrants pose a threat to this country's security.
As for Alabama, one has to wonder at such counterproductive cruelty. Do Alabamans want children too frightened to go to school? Or pregnant women too frightened to seek care? Whom could that possibly benefit?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CENSUS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); JUDGES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



150 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: On Wall St., A Protest Matures

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
''I think a good deal of the bankers should be in jail.''
That is what Andrew Cole, an unemployed 24-year-old graduate of Bucknell University, told me Monday morning in Zuccotti Park, the epicenter of the Occupy Wall Street movement. Mr. Cole, an articulate young man dressed in jeans, a sweatshirt and with a blue wool beanie on his head, had just arrived by bus from Madison, Wis., where he recently lost his job.
There was nothing particularly menacing or dangerous about Mr. Cole. He said he had come to participate in Occupy Wall Street because he believed in its ''anticapitalist'' message. ''I see Wall Street as responsible for the mess we're in.'' 
I had gone down to Zuccotti Park to see the activist movement firsthand after getting a call from the chief executive of a major bank last week, before nearly 700 people were arrested over the weekend during a demonstration on the Brooklyn Bridge.
''Is this Occupy Wall Street thing a big deal?'' the C.E.O. asked me. I didn't have an answer. ''We're trying to figure out how much we should be worried about all of this,'' he continued, clearly concerned. ''Is this going to turn into a personal safety problem?''
As I wandered around the park, it was clear to me that most bankers probably don't have to worry about being in imminent personal danger. This didn't seem like a brutal group - at least not yet.
But the underlying message of Occupy Wall Street - which spread to Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles on Monday - is something the big banks and corporate America may finally have to grapple with before it actually does become dangerous.
What's the message?
At times it can be hard to discern, but, at least to me, the message was clear: the demonstrators are seeking accountability for Wall Street and corporate America for the financial crisis and the growing economic inequality gap.
And that message is a warning shot about the kind of civil unrest that may emerge - as we've seen in some European countries - if our economy continues to struggle.
''Ultimately this is about power and greed, unchecked,'' said Jodie Evans, the co-founder of Code Pink. She, too, said she wanted to see Wall Street executives go to jail.
Consider the protests a delayed reaction to the financial crisis that has now reached a fever pitch as the public's lust for scalp has gone unfulfilled. In Chicago on Monday, one sign read: ''If corporations are people, why can't we put them in jail?''
In Zuccotti Park, several protesters were gathered around a laptop watching an online video that had just gone viral of Rosanne Barr, the comedian, recently interviewed by a newscaster.
''I am in favor of the return of the guillotine,'' she told a newscaster, in reference to bankers, with a straight face. ''I first would allow the guilty bankers to pay, you know, the ability to pay back anything over $100 million,'' she said, before adding that they should go to ''re-education camps and if that doesn't help, then being beheaded.'' She made the comments without a hint of laughter, yet the group watching around the laptop seemed to be quite amused.
Some people have suggested the Occupy Wall Street protest is a mere form of street theater, that the protesters have a myriad of grievances with no particular agenda. All of that may be true.
Edward Heath, 36, of Chicago, who is unemployed, said he was participating in the protest, in part, to ensure a more fair tax regime. When I asked about his views on Warren Buffett's ''Buffett Rule,'' he replied: ''I really can't comment because I haven't heard of him.'' But this group may be worth paying attention to if for no other reason than they are organized and growing in ranks. (They are beginning to link up with union organizations.) Later this week, more protests are expected to be staged around the country with the number of protesters swelling. And they are beginning to form groups to develop demands.
''We're disenfranchised,'' said Chris Cobb, a 41-year-old writer and designer from Brooklyn who was conducting mock interviews with a cardboard television camera and microphone emblazoned with the Fox News logo. ''Wall Street is a metaphor for the financial industry,'' Mr. Cobb said.
Acknowledging that most financial executives now work in Midtown, he said with a laugh, ''We couldn't do this on Park Avenue. Park Avenue isn't a metaphor for anything. This is a metaphor for David and Goliath.'' While the protesters generally didn't talk much about politics, most leaned left. Mr. Cobb said, ''Like the Tea Party was about reinvigorating the right, this is about reinvigorating the left.''
As evidence of the underlying politics, Ms. Evans volunteered that she had proudly disrupted the Koch brothers' Tea Party conference earlier this year in Palm Springs, Calif. ''They put me in shackles,'' she said with a grin. ''They were looking down at me with their drinks in hand.''
Ms. Evans, who said she has made a career of participating in protests, said she had just flown to New York from Los Angeles to join Occupy Wall Street. How did she get here, I asked. ''Virgin America,'' she replied with a smile. But doesn't Virgin America represent the corporations you are trying to fight? ''No,'' she insisted. Referring to Richard Branson, she said, ''He's working on creating solar planes.''
As I was leaving, having spoken to scores of protesters, I noticed two of them walking over to the A.T.M. at Bank of America. As much as this group may want to get away from Wall Street and corporate America, it may be trapped by it. In the eyes of these young protesters, until they can unshackle themselves from the system - or perhaps make the system work for them - the sense of unrest is unlikely to go away anytime soon.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Cobb, left, a protester from Brooklyn, conducted a mock interview with another participant on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ROSS SORKIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); RIOTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



151 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Standoff Is Resolved

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration moved Monday to complete free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama, submitting the deals for Congressional approval after resolving a standoff of months with Republicans over the details of a package both sides said they favored.
The White House is depending on Republican support for the trade agreements to overcome the passionate opposition of Democrats concerned about the loss of American jobs to foreign competition. But it agreed to submit the deals to Congress only after receiving what administration officials described as sufficient assurances that House Republicans would also approve an expansion of benefits for displaced workers. The Senate approved an expansion of the benefits program last month. 
President Obama and Republican leaders have spotlighted the trade agreements repeatedly as a powerful opportunity for Washington to help the economy, but the projected benefits are modest. The government estimates that the deals would increase annual exports of American goods by about $12 billion, or roughly 1 percent. Service providers like banks and law firms are also expected to benefit.
''These agreements will support tens of thousands of jobs across the country for workers making products stamped with three proud words: Made in America,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement. ''We've worked hard to strengthen these agreements to get the best possible deal for American workers and businesses, and I call on Congress to pass them without delay.''
Under special rules that govern the consideration of trade deals, Congress has 90 days to approve or reject the agreements, but it cannot amend the terms. The House speaker, John A. Boehner, said Monday that the deals were a ''top priority'' and promised to move quickly.
''Today we have overcome a crucial hurdle to helping put Americans back to work,'' Mr. Boehner said. Then he took a swipe at the White House. ''While the delay was unacceptably long and likely cost jobs, I am pleased the Obama administration has finally done its part.''
Trade agreements reduce the price of American goods and services in foreign markets -- and foreign goods and services here -- by eliminating tariffs, or taxes, on those products. Most economists say the overall benefits are substantial, increasing demand and reducing prices. But the outcomes for individuals are much more varied. Consumers may benefit from the availability of cheaper foreign goods even as more expensive American workers are losing their jobs.
The United States has comprehensive free trade agreements with 17 countries, including Mexico and Canada. The proposed agreement with South Korea could increase annual sales of American goods -- including dairy products, pork, poultry, chemicals and plastics -- by up to $10.9 billion, according to a 2007 estimate by a federal agency, the United States International Trade Commission. That estimate did not include sales services like banking and legal work, which are also likely to be considerable.
The agreement with Colombia, a much smaller trading partner, would increase annual demand for American goods by about $1.1 billion, the commission estimated. It said the impact of the Panama agreement would be smaller; it did not provide an estimate.
The White House said the deals would ''provide a major boost to our exports.''
Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, described the deals as ''a key component of the House Republicans' job plan.''
Both sides said passing the agreements would create thousands of jobs.
The Bush administration completed negotiation of the three agreements in 2006, but approval was blocked by Congressional Democrats. Mr. Obama lifted the agreements from the dustbin in 2009 as part of a broader effort to revive the economy. To address the concerns of labor unions and other opponents, the administration renegotiated provisions in each of the deals.
But progress bogged down again over the fate of a modest and obscure benefits program called Trade Adjustment Assistance. The government has long provided benefits to workers who lose jobs to foreign competition, including training programs, money to cover the cost of searching for a job or moving to a new city and tax credits to reduce the cost of health insurance.
Congress, under Democratic control, temporarily expanded eligibility for this program in 2009, but Republicans ended the expanded program after taking control of the House.
The White House, bowing to the demands of Congressional Democrats, said it would not submit the trade agreements until Republicans restored financing. Republicans, some of whom supported the program in the past, said they would not agree to increase federal spending.
In June, the White House announced that it had negotiated a compromise with the Montana Democrat Max Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and the Michigan Republican Dave Camp, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Their two committees had jurisdiction over the legislation. But the critical breakthrough came only last month when Mr. Baucus orchestrated Senate passage of the deal, which partially restores the expanded benefits.
House leaders agreed Monday to consider that deal ''in tandem'' with the trade deals.
The United States Chamber of Commerce, a leading proponent of the agreements, cheered the news.
''America is finally getting back in the game,'' Thomas J. Donohue, the group's president, said in a statement. ''The chamber will pull out all of the stops to get the votes in Congress.''
The administration's efforts have persuaded some traditional opponents of trade deals to stand down. The United Automobile Workers, for example, agreed to support the South Korea deal after the administration persuaded South Korea to accept a more gradual elimination of tariffs on auto imports.
Other unions, however, remain vocal in their opposition, putting pressure on Congressional Democrats.
''The last thing America needs is one more job-killing trade deal, let alone three,'' Jimmy Hoffa, the president of the Teamsters, said in a statement on Monday. ''These proposed agreements will damage our economy, raise unemployment and further lower workers' wages.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pantech employees making mobile phones in Gimpo, South Korea. By one estimate, a pact with South Korea could increase the annual sales of American goods by as much as $10.9 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEONGJOON CHO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POULTRY (73%); PORK (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (66%); PRICE CUTTING (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); PANAMA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



152 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: In Defense Of Romney

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Over the past several months, Mitt Romney has been an excellent presidential candidate. He has performed superbly in the debates. He has outorganized his rivals. He has relentlessly stayed on his core theme of putting Americans back to work. He has taken Rick Perry apart with a cold ruthlessness that is a wonder to behold.
And throughout this period of excellence, he has done almost nothing to endear himself to Republican activists. They have spent this season of excellence searching for anyone else: Palin, Trump, Bachmann, Perry, Cain and now (Please! Please!) Christie. On Nov. 4, 2010, Romney earned the support of 23 percent of Republican voters, according to the RealClearPolitics average of polls. Today, he also has support from 23 percent of Republicans nationwide. 
The central problem is that Mitt Romney doesn't fit the mold of what many Republicans want in a presidential candidate. They don't want a technocratic manager. They want a bold, blunt radical outsider who will take on the establishment, speak truth to power and offend the liberal news media.
They don't want Organization Man. They want Braveheart.
The question is: Are they right to want this? Well, if they want an in-your-face media campaign that will produce delicious thrills for the true believers, they are absolutely right. But if they actually want to elect an effective executive who is right for this moment, they are probably not right.
There are two important features of the current Republican moment. First, this is not a party riven by big ideological differences. This is not Reagan versus Rockefeller. Whoever wins the nomination will be leading a party with a cohesive ideology and a common set of priorities: reform taxes, replace Obamacare, cut spending and reform entitlements. The next president won't have to come up with a vision, just execute the things almost all Republicans agree upon.
Second, the challenges ahead are technically difficult. There's a reason that no president since Reagan has been able to reform the tax code. There's a reason no president save Obama has been able to pass health care reform. These are complicated issues that require a sophisticated inside game -- navigating through the special interests, building complex coalitions. They are issues that require executive expertise.
It's easy to see how Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, if he decides to run, could rally public support behind these priorities. He has an amazing ability to talk about policy in concrete, common-sense terms. He might easily be the Republicans' best option.
Yet Romney's skills are not to be underestimated. In the first place, he doesn't throw interceptions. As with quarterbacks, the chief job of a president is not to give the game away with unforced errors. Romney does not take excessive risks. He doesn't make decisions without advance preparation.
He does adapt. It has been stunning to see how much better Romney is as a candidate this time around than in 2008. This improvement must have come from a pretty thorough period of self-examination and self-correction.
He seems to know how to pick staff. His economic advisers include R. Glenn Hubbard of Columbia, Greg Mankiw of Harvard, former Senator Jim Talent and Vin Weber, a former congressman. This is the gold standard of adviser teams.
He could probably work well with the leaders of his own party. If Romney were to be elected, he would probably share power with the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and the House speaker, John Boehner. These are not exactly Tea Party radicals. Instead, they are consummate professionals and expert legislators who could plausibly work together. More presidents have been undone by the Congressional leaders in their own party than by members of the opposition.
Romney may be able to guard against ideological overreach. Each successive recent administration has overread its election mandate. Romney may be inauthentic, but he is rarely overzealous.
He comes from a blue state. Candidates who come from states where their party is in the minority are much more likely to be elected. In government, it really helps to have a feel for how people in the other party think. Neither President Obama nor George W. Bush had this.
Finally, Romney can be dull. Political activists like exciting candidates. But most people, who have lower expectations from politics and politicians, just want them to provide basic order. They want government to be orderly so they can be daring in other spheres of their lives. Romney is the most predictable of the candidates and would make for the most soporific of presidents. That's a good thing. Government would function better if partisan passions were on a lower flame.
It's exciting to have charismatic leaders. But often the best leaders in business, in government and in life are not glittering saviors. They are professionals you hire to get a job done.
The strongest case for Romney is that he's nobody's idea of a savior.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); LIBERAL MEDIA (67%); TAX REFORM (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); TAX LAW (63%)

COMPANY: FORBES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK PERRY (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



153 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Cozy U.S. Tie to Builder Is Seen By Resisters of Pipeline Project

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
A State Department official provided Fourth of July party invitations, subtle coaching and cheerleading, and inside information about Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton's meetings to a Washington lobbyist for a Canadian company seeking permission from the department to build a pipeline that would carry crude from the oil sands of Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
E-mails released Monday in response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed by the environmental group Friends of the Earth paint a picture of a sometimes warm and collaborative relationship between the lobbyist for the pipeline company, Trans-Canada, and officials in the State Department, the agency responsible for evaluating and approving the billion-dollar project.
The exchanges provide a rare glimpse into how Washington works and the access familiarity can bring. The 200 pages are the second batch of documents and e-mails released so far. 
They also offer insight into the company's strategy, not revealed publicly before. TransCanada lobbyists exchanged e-mails with State Department officials in July about their intention to drop their request to operate the Keystone XL pipeline at higher pressures than normally allowed in the United States to win political support, but then suggested they would reapply for the exception once the project had been cleared.
''You see officials who see it as their business not to be an oversight agency but as a facilitator of TransCanada's plans,'' said Damon Moglen, the director of the climate and energy project for Friends of the Earth. While the e-mails refer to multiple meetings between TransCanada officials and assistant secretaries of state, he said, such access was denied to environmentalists seeking input, who had only one group meeting at that level.
Environmental groups argue that the 1,700-mile pipeline, which could carry 700,000 barrels a day from Alberta to the Gulf Coast of Texas, would result in unacceptably high emissions and disrupt pristine ecosystems.
Wendy Nassmacher, a State Department spokeswoman, disputed that the e-mails showed a pro-pipeline bias. ''We are committed to a fair, transparent and thorough process,'' she said in an e-mail. ''Throughout the process we have been in communication with industry as well as environmental groups, both in the United States and in Canada.''
TransCanada's chief Washington lobbyist is Paul Elliott, a top official in Mrs. Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign. All of the documents pertain to contacts between Mr. Elliott and government officials.
''What differentiates this case is the potential for conflict of interest. That really raises eyebrows,'' said Jake Wiens, an investigator with the Project on Government Oversight in Washington.
Many of the e-mails released Monday are between Mr. Elliott and Marja Verloop, the counselor for energy and environment at the United States Embassy in Ottawa.
On Sept. 10, 2010, in response to an e-mail from Mr. Elliott announcing that Senator Max Baucus of Montana was supporting the pipeline, Ms. Verloop wrote, ''Go Paul!''
In an e-mail to David Jacobson, the United States ambassador to Canada, she described TransCanada as ''comfortable and on board'' with some developments in the review process.
In a fragmented exchange, Ms. Verloop wondered whether TransCanada could reapply to use higher pipeline pressures in the future, to which Mr. Elliott replied, ''You are correct.'' Such a request after the State Department signed off on the pipeline would require approval only by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, a small federal agency, bypassing broader political scrutiny.
Shawn Howard, a spokesman for TransCanada, said Mr. Elliott lobbied the State Department officials as did lobbyists for many environmental groups. ''Mr. Elliott was and is simply doing his job,'' Mr. Howard said. ''No laws have been broken.''
The State Department is tasked with granting permission, according to the ''national interest,'' for pipelines that cross national borders and is weighing the environmental impact of Keystone XL against the benefit of expanding the fuel supply for the United States. Its third and final environmental impact statement, released in late August, said the pipeline would have ''limited adverse environmental impacts'' if operated according to regulations.
The Environmental Protection Agency, which may offer comments on such pipelines but is not empowered to rule on their authorization, sharply criticized the State Department's previous environmental assessments as inadequate but has not yet weighed in on the August report.
Though the pipeline would help ensure a stable fuel supply from a friendly neighbor, environmental groups oppose it because much of the crude would be extracted from subterranean oil sands in a process that they say results in heavy emissions and destroys the overlying forests. In addition, the pipeline would go through the Ogallala Aquifer, one of the Great Plains' principal water sources, where a spill could prove disastrous.
While acknowledging that the extraction produces higher emissions than conventional oil drilling, proponents say that environmental groups exaggerate the difference and that new processes are making it cleaner.
Some of the e-mails have a cozy tone while others reveal a sometimes tense and conflicted relationship. Officials in Washington repeatedly rejected and parried requests for meetings with TransCanada executives even while trying to placate Canada; Keystone XL has the strong support of the Canadian government and would provide a lucrative new outlet for Canadian oil.
This year, for example, State Department officials struggled with how to respond to Mr. Elliott's request for a second meeting with Jose W. Fernandez, assistant secretary for economic, energy and business affairs.
''I definitely think that Fernandez should NOT meet with TransCanada folks at this point,'' one e-mail said. Another said: ''It would be unusual for an Assistant Secretary to meet twice with the same company in such a short time, and we wouldn't be sending a message that we're unwilling to meet since others of us will be meeting with them.''
Environmental groups have long argued that Mr. Elliott's lobbying of the State Department is a conflict of interest since he served as Mrs. Clinton's deputy national campaign director and chief of delegate selection in 2008.
The department has said the decision about whether to permit the pipeline ''is not and will not be influenced by prior relationships that current government officials have had.''
In the first cache of e-mails, made public in September, State Department officials seem at times to advise TransCanada officials on how to maximize their chances for pipeline approval.
That tone continued on Dec. 14, when Ms. Verloop sent Mr. Elliott a copy of an article raising questions about his conflicts of interest with information about Mrs. Clinton's trip to Canada for a meeting of North American foreign ministers, noting: ''Oversaw S's trip to Ottawa yesterday for the trilat. KXL not raised, but Doer flew back on the plane with her.'' Gary Doer is Canada's ambassador to the United States.
Mr. Elliott responded by saying the coverage made him ill.
Ms. Verloop replied: ''Sorry for the stomach pains but at the end of the day it's precisely because you have connections that you're sought after and hired.'' For emphasis, she added a frowning emoticon.
With a judge now checking to make sure the State Department complies with Friends of the Earth's document requests, Mr. Moglen anticipates more e-mails will be released. A final decision on the pipeline is expected by the end of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); OIL SANDS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); APPROVALS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



154 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Aid Faces Major Cutbacks In Budget Crisis

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- America's budget crisis at home is forcing the first significant cuts in overseas aid in nearly two decades, a retrenchment that officials and advocates say reflects the country's diminishing ability to influence the world.
As lawmakers scramble to trim the swelling national debt, both the Republican-controlled House and the Democrat-controlled Senate have proposed slashing financing for the State Department and its related aid agencies at a time of desperate humanitarian crises and uncertain political developments. The proposals have raised the specter of deep cuts in food and medicine for Africa, in relief for disaster-affected places like Pakistan and Japan, in political and economic assistance for the new democracies of the Middle East, and even for the Peace Corps.
The financial crunch threatens to undermine a foreign policy described as ''smart power'' by President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, one that emphasizes diplomacy and development as a complement to American military power. It also would begin to reverse the increase in foreign aid that President George W. Bush supported after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as part of an effort to combat the roots of extremism and anti-American sentiment, especially in the most troubled countries. 
Given the relatively small foreign aid budget -- it accounts for 1 percent of federal spending over all -- the effect of the cuts could be disproportional.
The State Department already has scaled back plans to open more consulates in Iraq, for example. The spending trend has also constrained support for Tunisia and Egypt, where autocratic leaders were overthrown in popular uprisings. While many have called for giving aid to these countries on the scale of the Marshall Plan that helped rebuild European democracies after World War II, the administration has been able to propose only relatively modest investments and loans, and even those have stalled in Congress.
''There is a democratic awakening in places that have never dreamed of democracy,'' Mrs. Clinton said on Friday. ''And it is unfortunate that it's happening at a historic time when our own government is facing so many serious economic challenges, because there's no way to have a Marshall Plan for the Middle East and North Africa.''
With the administration and Congress facing a deadline for still deeper cuts in spending, government programs across the board face the ax, from public education to the military, but proposed cuts to the State Department and foreign aid come on top of an $8 billion reduction in April, the single largest cut to any one department under the deal that kept the government from shutting down.
Representative Kay Granger, a Republican from Texas and chairwoman of the House appropriations subcommittee overseeing foreign affairs, said that the budget crisis was forcing ''a fundamental change'' in how foreign aid is spent. Lawmakers and officials, she said, needed to prioritize spending according to American national security interests and justify those decisions to Americans who are generally skeptical of foreign aid.
She recalled a State Department envoy's informing her of $250 million in relief to Pakistan after last year's devastating floods. ''I said I think that's bad policy and bad politics,'' she said in an interview at her office on Capitol Hill. ''What are you going to say to people in the United States who are having flooding?''
Spending on international affairs, including foreign aid and the State Department's operating budget, reached $55 billion in the 2010 fiscal year, Mr. Obama's first full year in office, but declined by the end of the 2011 budget to $49 billion.
The administration proposed spending $59 billion in the fiscal year that began on Saturday, including $8.7 billion in a newly created contingency account for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Those operations will expand significantly when the State Department takes over more tasks as American troops withdraw from Iraq at the end of the year and prepare for a drawdown in Afghanistan beginning next summer.
While the final budget for the year remains uncertain given the politics surrounding the special Congressional committee charged with finding more than $1 trillion in cuts over all, it is clear that foreign aid will decline for a second year.
''We're going to have to do more with less -- or less with less, depending on how you look at it,'' said Deputy Secretary of State Thomas R. Nides, who oversees the department's budget and operations.
The House appropriations subcommittee, controlled by Republicans, proposed cutting the administration's request by $12 billion, or 20 percent, to $47 billion, with $39 billion for operations and aid and $7.6 billion for the contingency account for Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Even the Senate's version, passed by its Democratic majority, cuts the Obama administration's request to $53 billion. Setting aside the rise in contingency spending in Iraq as the American Embassy bolsters its security in anticipation of the troop withdrawal, the Senate's proposal would amount to a reduction in everything else.
Both versions cut spending across the board, and around the world. The House's plan also reflects longstanding Republican views on matters of policy, for example by prohibiting financing for organizations that perform abortions or provide needle exchanges. It would also cut American contributions to international organizations like the United Nations and its Human Rights Council, the World Bank and the World Health Organization.
The Republicans also attach conditions on aid to Pakistan, Egypt and the Palestinians, suspending the latter entirely if the Palestinians succeed in winning recognition of statehood at the United Nations. However, one of the largest portions of foreign aid -- more than $3 billion for Israel -- is left untouched in both the House and Senate versions, showing that, even in times of austerity, some spending is inviolable.
The last time American foreign aid declined so significantly was in the 1990s, after the end of the cold war and the fight between Democrats and Republicans that led to a balanced budget under President Bill Clinton.
John Norris, a former official at the State Department and the Agency for International Development, or U.S.A.I.D., said that the country could ''be much more selective'' in delivering aid ''without doing much harm to the national interest.''
But Mr. Norris warned that cutting too deeply could return the United States to the inward-looking era before the Sept. 11 attacks, after which many people believed that the country had done too little to address the roots of extremism.
''We need to be a little less scattershot,'' said Mr. Norris, who is now with the Center for American Progress in Washington. ''Every ambassador wants to announce something or preside over a ribbon cutting, but in this environment that is no longer possible.''
Jeremy Konyndyk, the director of policy and advocacy for the international aid group Mercy Corps, said that a retrenchment in aid could gravely erode not only America's influence but also its moral standing as a generous nation in times of crises.
''The amount of money the U.S. has or doesn't have doesn't really rise or fall on the foreign aid budget,'' he said in a telephone interview from Nairobi, Kenya, where he was overseeing relief to the famine in the Horn of Africa. ''The budget impact is negligible. The impact around the world is enormous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mother brought her son for treatment at an American-financed clinic in Farza, Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (A9) CHARTS: U.S. Foreign Aid Since 1977: In the 1970s and 80s, foreign assistance went primarily toward global anti-communism and Middle East peace initiatives.
Financing fell to its lowest levels during the 1990s after the passing of a deficit reduction law and the end of the cold war.
Since Sept. 11, 2001, foreign aid has increased to support the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and global antiterrorism strategies.
 Financing dropped in 2011, and the Republican- controlled House appropriations subcommittee has proposed further cuts for 2012. (Source: Congressional Research Service) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); BUDGETS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TRENDS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); WORLD WAR II (67%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); PEACE CORPS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); KAY GRANGER (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011



155 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Another Immigration Misconception

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE


HIGHLIGHT: Some of the most reputable academics who favor limited immigration argue that legislation to require all employers to verify the status of prospective employers is vital if the goal is to limit the economic impact of illegal immigration. But an approach that seems simple in concept would be anything but simple in its consequences. 

 BODY:
Yesterday I addressed three misconceptions swirling around immigration and the latest story in our series, Immigration Upended, but one question seems to keep arriving in my inbox and Twitter feed: Why not just go after employers? If businesses can be regulated and punished into keeping their payrolls free of illegal immigrants, wouldn't that solve the illegal immigration problem?
This is a policy that seems to have some consensus appeal, including among New York Times readers of various persuasions (here, here and here).
It also seems to be the only major immigration initiative being actively discussed in Congress, where the House is advancing a bill that would make all employers use E-Verify, a program that checks the immigration status of new hires against a federal database.
Some of the most reputable academics who favor limited immigration, including Steven Camarota, who calls himself "Mr. Work Site," argue that this kind of legislation is vital - more so than anything else if the goal is reducing the consequences of illegal immigration, which include depressed wages for lower-skilled jobs. He argues that mandatory E-Verify coupled with a presidential pledge to never allow amnesty could persuade several million illegal immigrants to leave the United States and open up more jobs for Americans.
Other supporters of E-Verify see even more positive outcomes. But critics of e-Verify, from the right as well as the left, consider Mr. Camarota's forecast to be an unlikely scenario that also overlooks a number of unexpected, problematic consequences. 
E-Verify, whose Web site looks simple and efficient, can in fact generate lengthy back-and-forths with the government, adding time, paperwork and more computer checking to the hiring process. Bloomberg Government estimates that if mandatory E-Verify had been in place last year, American businesses would have spent an extra $2.7 billion complying. 
The biggest impacts, in terms of time and struggle, would almost certainly be felt by small businesses. Take a simple one, like my father's, which fixes churches around working-class New England. He tends to hire people who need help - me, in high school, and often ex-cons with kids who have become evangelical Christians in prison. More of his employees are Spanish-speaking these days, and while my father follows the law religiously, he does not have a human resources division or an extra assistant who deals with hiring. His three or four employees fill out their forms and work when there is work to do.
So the impacts of something like E-Verify, coupled with strong enforcement that includes large enough fines to deter illegal hiring, could generally go one of two ways. First, consider the negative scenarios. It's a simple matter of math to foresee that a business like my father's - small and barely surviving - could go belly up because of fines associated with a new program the owner didn't really have time to figure out.
Now imagine that case multiplied. Some say the damage could build into a political problem, if across the country, plumbers and spa owners, home health care agencies and janitors begin complaining loudly on the evening news about new government regulations that strained their businesses to the breaking point. Some might be unscrupulous cheats but others would no doubt be members of churches that object to get-tough immigration laws and keep illegal workers out of compassion.
That could play badly in swing states, particularly in the midst of a persistent economic downturn. 
On the rosier side of our hypotheticals, some small business owners might be thrilled to have their less-than-honest competitors forced to compete on a more level playing field, not with workers who accepted below-market rates because it was all they could get while working illegally. Those business owers who complain about tougher laws could be seen by the public as the cause of the problem - ingrates who were willing to look the other way in order to pay workers less than a living wage. Some analysts see an eventual increase in wages for Americans overall.
Which scenario is more likely? No one knows. 
What makes any attempt to alter the immigration environment so difficult is that the illegal immigrant population today is so large and rooted, in an array of areas, with a web of relationships that are hard to untangle. Many immigrant families include a mix of legal and illegal residents. Their presence affects nearly everything - businesses, churches, schools - and the situation in rural Alabama is far different than it is in Miami, New York, or in California's agricultural areas. For the members of Congress tasked with legislation, the political and pragmatic calculations are especially tough to figure out.
Mr. Camarota maintains that in the aggregate, the benefits of tougher laws would outweigh the costs, which he says might include a few shuttered businesses and slightly higher prices on products that rely heavily on illegal immigrant labor. In recent cases where large work site raids forced companies to stop hiring illegal immigrants, he said, businesses found legal replacement workers and in most cases paid them a little more. "Whatever the employers say, their actual behavior is different," he said.
And yet, there are also counterexamples - Alabama farms that are struggling as people leave in the wake of a tough new law targeting illegal immigrants - just as there are longer-term questions. Would more rules and immigration fines for employers drive more businesses to move operations offshore? Many West Coast farmers now go to Mexico when they want to expand, according to internal industry surveys, in part (farmers tell me) because it is easier than finding workers and dealing with regulations in the United States. Could E-Verify accelerate that trend?
More broadly, as one New York Times commenter noted, why focus on illegal immigrants as the cause of low wages, not corporate executives who are paid increasingly large salaries, even when their businesses fail?
The clear challenge for Congress is to create a system that would hold the worst employers accountable while mitigating the cost to small businesses, and even immigrants who would prefer to work legally, pay taxes, and compete with American workers on a fair, meritocratic playing field.
But experts of all stripes say that such an effort does not appear to be under way. And to understand why it is so hard to simply go after employers who hire illegal immigrants, just remember that it is a policy that puts one of the country's most revered groups - small businesses - on the defensive. Think of those guys in your neighborhood driving around in pick-up trucks with their family name on the side. Even if they like the idea of something like E-Verify, the fine print and their own personal stake is what they care about most. They are not easily pleased and, as Joe the Plumber proved in 2008, they tend to get a lot of attention when they speak up.

        
Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
        
X-Ray Scan Reveals 513 Migrants in 2 Trucks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); RELIGION (66%) illegal immigration; Illegal Immigrants; News

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



156 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: A Data Center Power Solution

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: The idea of managing little bits of power to accrue big savings in data centers is one of the powerful themes in enterprise computing. 

 BODY:
The rapid growth in data centers, some with hundreds of thousands of computer servers attending to tasks as diverse as managing complex physics problems and posting pictures to Facebook, has led to a lot of worries about power consumption. A recent census of the industry indicated electricity use will grow by 19 percent just in 2012.
That is actually less than people had seen in years past, but indicates no less demand for "clouds" of servers accessible by millions of users. If anything, demand for corporate and private clouds is likely to be even greater. But management of the big centers is getting more efficient, as engineers re-examine every aspect of production, especially power.
If you have one server, you might just plug it into the wall and forget about it. Put a few hundred together and the power use, including the power to cool the chips that are sending billions of little electric signals through transistors, gets to be a big expense. Not to mention an environmental problem.
"Cloud companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook or the big telecommunications companies will do their own server designs for these environments, but they are still looking to save money wherever they can," says Stephen Hassell, who runs the data center infrastructure management business of Emerson, a St. Louis-based engineering company with sales of $21 billion. His company works with data centers at some 6,000 companies worldwide. At the low end, these might have systems working with as few as five racks of up to 64 servers each. "At the high end, we're talking about 45,000 to 50,000 racks," he says.
One early solution was virtualization, which enables one server to take on the work of several, raising the individual power efficiency of a single box. Now companies like Emerson are focusing on the power use of individual computer applications, tasks that might vary between heavy-duty weather forecasting and one computer simply pinging another to see if it is on. The idea is to have another layer of computing inside the system, allocating which applications can run most efficiently on which computers.
"Our system will tell a manager that load X is consuming this many resources, and suggest where it be moved to in the center," Mr. Hassell says. 
The idea of managing little bits of power to accrue big savings is attracting competitors to Emerson. One in Atlanta, called Joule X (a joule is a measurement of energy), hopes to monitor all the energy consumed on a network, even the lighting and phone systems of a building, adjusting systems by sending software "agents" across a network to keep switches turned on only when needed. 
Further out, Mr. Hassell figures, the big computer centers will be able to calculate which part of a computing task should be carried out locally, on something like a smartphone or desktop personal computer, and which need to use the power in the cloud. That move was prefigured in the design of the Silk browser, introduced last week by Amazon, operator of one of the world's biggest clouds.
The clouds themselves are likely to become specialized, in order to carry out tasks more efficiently. "You end up with a series of purpose-build clouds, good at media, or data-intensive tasks, or holding secure information, managed by hubs that gather the information," Mr. Hassell says.
"Google does it now, with servers dedicated just to search, and others to run its internal operations." he said. "Eventually, I can see households with their own hubs. I don't see any end to the demand for more computing."
In some ways, the idea of specialty clouds is something like the age-old economic law of comparative advantage - do the thing you are best at, let some other specialist worry about something else. Specialty clouds will also gain in popularity, however, because of regulatory issues, or customer demand.
"There will be specialty software for things like medical data, where you require extra security or privacy," says Robert Muglia, a former senior executive at Microsoft who recently joined the networking company Juniper Networks as head of software. "The Department of Defense will want its own heavily partitioned cloud, and they'll get it because they are so big. Then other governments will want one." 
An earlier version of this post misstated the operation that Stephen Hassell oversees for Emerson. It is the data center infrastructure management business, not the network power division.

        
In the New Data Center, It's Roofs Off and Taxes Down
        
Amazon's Silk Browser Plays Another Role
        
Autonomy C.E.O.: We Are Still H.P.'s Future
        
Why Flash Is the Future of Storage in Data Centers
        
VMware Shows Its Cloud Strategy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NETWORK SERVERS (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); WEATHER (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) Cloud Computing; Data Centers; Enterprise Computing; Software

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



157 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Another Federal Judge Takes the S.E.C. to Task

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission now has a new judicial critic in federal court in Manhattan: Judge William H. Pauley III. 

 BODY:
An unusually hostile ruling emerged from a Manhattan courtroom last week, when a federal judge lashed out at the Securities and Exchange Commission for weak oversight. It was unusual, only because its author was not Judge Jed S. Rakoff.
The S.E.C. has become a regular recipient of Mr. Rakoff's wrath, drawing his ire on its 2009 settlement with Bank of America, an investigation into Vitesse Semiconductor's accounting and more recently with the agency's insider trading case against Rajat K. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs. 
Now, a new judge has entered the mix, making Federal District Court in Manhattan an even more daunting lion's den for S.E.C. lawyers. 
Judge William H. Pauley III criticized the agency on Friday for failing to keep an eye on a private firm that it hired to dole out $25 million in settlement funds to investors. In a nine-page ruling, the judge took the S.E.C. to task for its "unseemly" oversight of the Garden City Group, an independent claims administrator that sought to collect its own steep $1 million commission.
"The question that occurs to this court, but apparently not to the S.E.C., is, was such an expensive notice program effective?" Judge Pauley wrote. "The S.E.C.'s natural, bureaucratic proclivity is to avoid responsibility." AmLaw Litigation Daily first noted the decision on Monday. 
The ruling stems from a 2008 case against Zurich Financial Services, which the S.E.C. accused of artificially inflating performance figures for a subsidiary. Zurich agreed to pay a $25 million fine, and by February 2009 it had deposited the funds into an account. 
But the S.E.C. went radio silent for six months, preventing the cash from reaching investors, according to Judge Pauley's ruling. By August 2009, the judge directed the agency to "shake off its lethargy." Within weeks of the rebuke, the S.E.C. produced a plan, which earned the judge's blessing.
Under the plan, the S.E.C. chose the Garden City Group as claims administrator. The firm was charged with notifying wronged investors and processing their claims. 
Over the next 18 months, Garden City distributed the funds but also racked up a $1 million bill, eating into more than 4 percent of the overall settlement. The firm billed $538,000 in costs and $455,000 in fees, despite agreeing to a cap of $375,000, the judge said. 
For its part, Garden City offered the judge only one invoice, which lacked details on the firm's hourly rate and the employees who performed the services, he said. The S.E.C. did not object or provide its own accounting of the charges. 
"In ostrich-like fashion, the S.E.C. does not even bother to submit a single piece of paper" justifying the fees and expenses, he said. The judge blamed the S.E.C. for conducting "no meaningful oversight" of Garden City. "Who will guard the guardians?" he asked. 
The ruling was the S.E.C.'s latest tongue-lashing at the hands of a judge in the Southern District of New York. Over the last few years, Judge Rakoff has torn into the agency on a number of occasions. 
In early 2010, he begrudgingly approved Bank of America's $150 million accord with the S.E.C. over the bank's takeover of Merrill Lynch, arguing that the settlement amounted to "half-baked justice at best." The S.E.C. blamed the bank for not alerting its shareholders ahead of the deal that Merrill planned to award big bonuses. Judge Rakoff originally blocked the settlement because it called for the bank to pay only $33 million without acknowledging any wrongdoing, another of the judge's pet peeves. 
Early this year, he approved a $3 million agreement between the S.E.C. and Vitesse Semiconductor over the improper accounting of revenue and the backdating of stock options. But again, he slammed the S.E.C. for allowing the company to skate off without admitting to wrongdoing. "The result is a stew of confusion and hypocrisy unworthy of such a proud agency as the S.E.C.," he wrote.
A few months later, Judge Rakoff had harsh words for the S.E.C.'s decision to file an administrative law case against Mr. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs director accused of insider trading, rather than bringing the action in federal court. 
The Southern District of New York is not the only unfriendly venue for S.E.C. lawyers. The agency has also taken a beating from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, which this summer rejected the agency's so-called proxy access rule. Altogether, the appeals court has tossed out three S.E.C. regulations in the last six years, including the proxy rule. In each case, the court rebuked the agency for not fully evaluating a rule's economic effects.

        
S.E.C. Won't Fight Ruling Striking Down Proxy Access
        
Judge Again Questions an S.E.C. Settlement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); APPEALS COURTS (70%) Bank of America; Jed S. Rakoff; Judge Jed S. Rakoff; Judge William H. Pauley; Merrill Lynch & Co; Proxy Access; S.E.C.; Securities and Exchange Commission; Southern District of New York; United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit; Vitesse Semiconductor; William H. Pauley III; Zurich Financial Services; Pauley, William H III; Decisions and Verdicts; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); VITESSE SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (57%); ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (99%) Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); VTSS (NASDAQ) (57%); ZURN (SWX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: Pauley, William H III

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



158 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: High School Entrepreneurs Promise to Save Millions for Schools

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: TruantToday claims that it can also improve grades, lower dropout rates and reduce crime. 

 BODY:
Founded in January, TruantToday is a messaging service that alerts parents instantly via text and e-mail message when students cut class. The goal? Reducing truancy and restoring state and federal financing to school districts, which can lose as much as $50 each day that a student is missing.
Employees: Three full-time employees and hiring two more: a sales representative and a designer.
Location: Westlake Village, Calif.
Founders: Zak Kukoff, 16, and Jonathan Yan, 18, classmates, started TruantToday after Mr. Kukoff skipped a 7 a.m. honors geometry class at Westlake High School. Administrators took two days to call his parents and notify them of his absence.
"An actual person from the school called and said, 'Your son was absent two days ago and, you know, get on that,'" said Mr. Kukoff, the company's chief executive. By then, of course, it was far too late to get him back into class. On top of that, the school was expending limited staff resources to make calls that he felt could easily be automated.
"Being the entrepreneurial sort that I am," he said, "I immediately thought there was a huge opportunity to make a much more efficient - and much more cost effective - system for the school." 
For the record, Mr. Kukoff adds that he was not actually playing hooky. "I wasn't skipping to go to the mall," he said. "I was helping the student government set up for a dance."
Pitch: "Right now, schools are losing millions of dollars per year because students don't come to the classroom," Mr. Kukoff said, adding that public schools in San Diego County alone lost at least $102 million in financing during the 2009-10 term because of absences. "Because we send messages out instantly, and because they go out to parents in a medium they're already interacting in, parents can then work with the school to bring the student back to the classroom in many cases that same day, which not only saves schools millions of dollars but improves grades, lowers dropout rates and actually lowers crime rates as well."
Traction: So far, TruantToday has signed up three paying customers in the Conejo Valley region of Southern California: Mr. Kukoff's own Westlake High School, along with Thousand Oaks High School and Newbury Park High School. The company is running free trials at 10 more schools in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. It is also in talks with district-level education officials in Sacramento and Seattle, Mr. Kukoff said.
Revenue: None yet. TruantToday charges on a sliding scale - from $10 to $1 per student, annually - with lower rates going to clients with the most students. Mr. Kukoff said the company is on track to start collecting revenue this year but declined to make projections.
Financing: The company is currently nearing completion of a $500,000 round of angel investment, with investors including Dave McClure of 500 Startups.
Marketing: TruantToday has been building buzz with a few early, high-profile coups. Last week, it won $15,000 in funding and took second place in the Innovation Challenge at NBC's Education Nation Summit meeting. In June, it was voted the most promising of five start-ups selected to participate in CGI America, a Clinton Global Initiative event dedicated to creating jobs and improving economic growth in the United States. In August, the company completed a 13-week program in Boulder, Colo., with TechStars, a start-up accelerator that provides participants with seed financing and mentoring.
Mr. Kukoff said he was pitching TruantToday to media outlets that cater to educators and developing strategies that would give districts incentives to promote the service. He also blogs for The Huffington Post.
Competition: TruantToday's primary competitor is SchoolMessenger, a service of Reliance Communications, which was founded in 1999 and is based in Santa Cruz, Calif. SchoolMessenger offers a notification system that disseminates information about emergencies, attendance and schoolwide events using voice mail, text messages, e-mail and social media. Earlier this year, New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, teamed up with SchoolMessenger as part of WakeUp! NYC, an initiative that sent chronically absent students recorded wake-up calls from Magic Johnson and other celebrities.
Other rivals include Edulink Systems, based in Orange, Calif., and ParentLink, a service of Parlant Technology, which has its headquarters in Provo, Utah.
Mr. Kukoff believes his system is more user-friendly than most other software now available to educators. He also said that TruantToday's system lets educators address individual absences more rapidly than his competitors' broad-based messaging services. "We're pitching a very specific return on investment for schools," he said. He added that his service was the only one that allows two-way text messaging, which lets parents reply to the schools with their phones rather than connecting to the Internet.
Challenge: Getting the word out and hiring the right team members. "We're looking for people who are not only going into business just to make profit, but to have a social impact as well," Mr. Kukoff said. "It's important to us to have a company that's founded on an ethos of helping people."
Now it's your turn to weigh in. Can this pair of teenage social entrepreneurs go head-to-head with rivals that have been around for more than a decade?
Correction A previous version of this post reported that Mr. Kukoff had said the company had started collecting revenue. He says he meant to say that the company is on track to start collecting revenue.

        
A Tool to Help Business Owners Struggling With Social Media
        
Introducing Start: In the Trenches With Young Businesses
        
Tracing a Decline in New Businesses
        
You Should Open a Store!
        
Got a Great Idea? Tell Everyone!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); GEOMETRY (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Jonathan Yan; Start-ups; TruantToday; Zak Kukoff; Crime Rates; Education (K-12); Small Business; Westlake High School; Start

ORGANIZATION: Westlake High School

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



159 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Should Schools Offer Cash Bonuses for Good Test Scores?

BYLINE: REBECCA RUIZ


HIGHLIGHT: Would money motivate you to study and succeed in school? 

 BODY:
 In "Classes and Scores Soar With Incentives for A.P. Tests," Sam Dillon reports:
Joe Nystrom, who teaches math at a low-income high school, used to think that only a tiny group of students - the "smart kids" - were capable of advanced coursework.
But two years ago, spurred by a national program that offered cash incentives and other support for students and teachers, Mr. Nystrom's school, South High Community School, adopted a come one, come all policy for Advanced Placement courses. Today Mr. Nystrom teaches A.P. statistics to eight times as many students as he used to, and this year 70 percent of them scored high enough to qualify for college credit, compared with 50 percent before. One in four earned the top score possible, far outpacing their counterparts worldwide.
South High students said Mr. Nystrom and his colleagues had transformed the culture of a tough urban school, making it cool for boys with low-slung jeans who idolize rappers like Lil Wayne to take the hardest classes.
They were helped by the National Math and Science Initiative, a nonprofit network that provided laboratory equipment and special training for teachers and organized afternoon tutoring and Saturday sessions. It also paid $100 each to students who scored a 3 or above on the A.P. exam - and to their teachers, who can also earn additional rewards. Because 43 of his students passed the exam this year, far above his target, Mr. Nystrom will add a $7,300 check to his $72,000 salary.
Organizers of the initiative, who met with lawmakers and staff members at a Congressional briefing last month, said that over three years, the program led to nearly 38,000 A.P. exams being taken in math, science and English, many of them by black and Hispanic students. This year, 308 schools in six states are participating.
Students: Tell us what you think about this program. Would money alone motivate you to study and succeed in school? Do you agree or disagree that receiving a financial reward diminishes the feeling of satisfaction that comes from earning a good grade for its own sake? What do you find most motivates you to perform well in school? Is it a personal feeling of accomplishment, another person, a tangible reward? Why is its influence over you so strong?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Fill-In | What an 'A' Means
        
A 'Lost Decade' for Americans
        
Do You Talk About Report Cards With Your Parents?
        
Are You Afraid of Math?
        
12 Ways to Use The Times to Develop Math Literacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); MATHEMATICS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) Economics; grades; grading; incentives; Student Opinion

PERSON: LIL WAYNE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



160 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: How About a Little Danish?

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: As another European country institutes a tax on unhealthful foods, Americans should pay attention. 

 BODY:
COPENHAGEN, Denmark - Well lookee here: the inevitable move toward taxing unhealthful foods to raise income and discourage damaging diets has begun. Last month, Hungary, almost unnoticed, began taxing foods with high levels of fat, salt and sugar. And earlier this week, with just a little more fanfare, Denmark instituted an excise tax on foods high in saturated fat. 
By our standards, the Danes aren't even that fat: their obesity rate is about nine percent (it could be all that bike-riding), well below the European average of 15 percent and less than a third the rate of Americans. More startling, perhaps, is that the tax was introduced by a center-right government that was simply looking for new revenues. Although it met resistance, its passage was never really in doubt, because it was supported by both the right and the left. The tax was approved in a vote that ran about 90 percent in favor, and instituted at a rate of 16 Kroner (just under $3) per kilo, which will mean a half-pound of butter will rise in cost by about 15 cents.

When the old government was booted out last month, its place was taken by a coalition led by the leftish Social Democrats and including, among others, the Socialist People's Party (SF). Before it even took office, that alliance was talking about doubling the tax, which would truly test its health benefits. 
As an outsider who spent three days trying to comprehend the dynamics behind this, my understanding is bound to be flawed. But I believe there are two or three reasons this tax is happening (other than the obvious, which is that it makes sense). 
First, like its counterparts throughout Western Europe, the Danish government is struggling to find new income. And although there have been excise taxes on tobacco, sugar, alcohol and other "luxury" goods here for nearly 100 years, this one must have felt like peeking under a rock and finding a diamond. 
Then there's the idea that Danes - like many citizens of many countries, including our own - do not mind paying taxes as long as they're put to good use, and here to a great extent they are. Denmark is far from ideal, yet it offers many benefits of a progressive tax structure that Americans could see if we only had the political will: real universal health care, free education to all through college or trade school, terrific child care and retirement benefits, and more. 
Finally, "social engineering" (better term, anyone? "enforced attitude adjustment" doesn't cut it) is standard in Denmark. "It's simply not taboo here," said Jesper Petersen, when I spoke with him over coffee in the Parliament's cafeteria. Petersen, who is 30 years old and looks it, is a spokesperson on taxation for the SF and was mentioned to me several times as a likely minister of taxation when the new government sorts itself out. (He refused to comment.) 
"For generations, when we believe something is bad for the population but not so bad that it should be outlawed, we tax it," he said. Thus, not only alcohol and tobacco but pesticides are taxed, and the first step taken to reduce the use of antibiotics and growth promoters in animals was to tax them. (It wasn't the last step, but I'll report on Denmark's relatively progressive animal agriculture at another time.) 
This tax is not without problems. It's limited to saturated fats, though other fats and empty carbohydrates from sugar to white bread are probably equally to blame for the obesity epidemic. Although the tax will be applied to imported goods as well, labeling and documentation from some neighboring countries are less than reliable. And, of course, since Denmark is a small country, people may just cross the border to score their fixes of butter, frozen pizza and ribeyes. 
But Petersen believes that seeing the strategy as health-related rather than simply income-generating will allow government to both increase its rate and expand it to more unhealthy foods. Then, he says, the new revenues can be spent "on health care and prevention of lifestyle diseases" rather than on lowering income tax. And after admitting that it was complicated, he said, "If anyone can do this, we can. We have the labeling, we have an administration that can deal with complicated stuff, and we have companies that are used to making these kinds of adjustments." (It's worth noting that the use of trans fats is illegal in Denmark - as well as in Austria and Switzerland - and that this, too, happened without much fuss.) 
I have been advocating for taxes similar to these for years, so talking to Petersen was fantasy-like. At the end of our interview he said, "These taxes will work, and they'll become the trend. Health problems from lifestyle diseases are big in every European country - and even more in the United States - and everyone will be watching us. They'll see that this can help us control health care expenses - which will help us control the economy - and make people more healthy and allow them to live longer and better lives. We'll also pressure industry to create products that are healthier. 
"All of this can be done." 
I think he's right. We'll see similar taxes implemented throughout Scandinavia, and countries as diverse as France and Romania are already considering them. When we can say the same of the States, which needs these taxes more than any country in the world, it'll be time for a serious celebration. Perhaps a few rounds of Danish? 

        
Quick Change That Lasts for the Long Term
        
Making Change Happen, on a Deadline
        
Drugs, Risk and the Myth of the 'Evil' Addict
        
For Many, a Life-Saving Drug Out of Reach
        
The Health Payoffs of Time Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXCISE TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); NUTRITION (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); OBESITY (73%) 'fat tax'; Denmark; health; Diet and Nutrition; Obesity; Europe; taxes; Mark Bittman

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (94%); HUNGARY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Denmark; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



161 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Quick Change That Lasts for the Long Term

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Rapid Results can help a village build a road in 100 days. But its larger goal is to show villagers they can do it themselves. 

 BODY:
On Friday I wrote about Rapid Results Initiatives, bite-sized pieces of social change that a village, government office or business will choose and try to accomplish in just 100 days. Rapid Results Initiatives have proven to be effective at various tasks: improving health, infrastructure, education - service delivery of any kind. The urgent deadline provides focus. It's no longer business as usual, plagued by the usual list of reasons why nothing gets done.
The response from many readers was: forget about villages in Africa - let's try this with Congress. It's been done. As reader JerryLee from Vancouver, Wash., (23) advises: "Read up on the first 100 days of the F.D.R. administration." In "The Defining Moment," a biography of those 100 days, Jonathan Alter says that the 15 major bills Roosevelt pushed through Congress saved both democracy and capitalism. President Johnson also got much of his Great Society legislation passed during that period. Every president now makes the first 100 days into an all-out push. 
The Rapid Results initiatives try to create an artificial honeymoon period when no natural one exists. Rapid Results programs have worked in various countries to make people more prosperous, better educated and healthier. But they can't work everywhere. They were designed to help in cases where all the pieces- a desire for change, local leadership and enough money to finance the project - are already in place, but it doesn't get done. Rapid Results can help an organization go the last mile, but it still needs to have all those things first.
Projects also need careful planning. You cannot simply gather eight enthusiasts in a room. The group must include specialists in the project's necessary parts - if a village is building a well, someone on the committee has to be from the district water office. What that means is that before any team is assembled, someone has to go talk to the head of the district water department and convince her to assign one of her staff to the team. Unfortunately, there is a good bit of politics-as-usual in making Rapid Results a success.
And what if that water chief feels threatened by a Rapid Results project? "People get deeply invested in perpetuating problems," wrote Anna Runkle of Richmond, Calif. (11) "If others quickly succeed at solving a problem, then the leader of the old and ineffective approach looks bad I'd love to hear more about how one moves problem-huggers toward willingness and even enthusiasm."
Well, sometimes you just can't. But Nadim Matta, who runs the Rapid Results Institute, says it's usually enough to find one person with influence. That person might be able to convince the problem-hugger to at least get out of the way. "You can narrow it down to where they just stay on sidelines and watch, instead of jumping in," said Matta. "That's O.K When people see the possibility of results and you give them chance to plant the flag, they jump in." If officials see success, they usually try to put their name on it.
Matta said that roughly speaking, projects that have good preparation and a careful launch will be successful 85 to 90 percent of the time.
Success in a development project, unfortunately, is usually all too fleeting. One concern about Rapid Results is that the process would seem to carry the seeds of its own destruction. Keeping change from slipping backwards requires steady attention, not 100 days on problem A and the next 100 on problem B - do that, and a few rounds later Problem A will need to be tackled again. Sustainability is difficult enough in a marathon - it would be even harder if what you have instead is a series of sprints.
But this concept of sustainability is missing a larger context. The real purpose of Rapid Results isn't to help a village build a road in 100 days. It's to demonstrate to villagers that they can be successful when they work together with a strong focus for a project they want very badly - so they will keep doing it, over and over. A big reason that projects don't last is that they are depending on outsiders to keep them going. Real sustainability requires getting people to the point where they know they can do things themselves.
Many Rapid Results users, perhaps most, have never before felt effective or powerful in community life. "We try through the initial Rapid Results Initiatives to create an artificial experience where accountability is strong, where people feel empowered and aligned, and where the system is actually functioning," said Matta. "For 100 days, people experience high performance. And this builds their confidence and gives them the energy and impetus to continue."
Matta argues that Rapid Results projects are more sustainable than traditional forms of development because local people feel it is theirs, they now have a system for getting things done, and they have the expectation of success. They are not going to just let the water pump rust because a tiny part has failed. They built it. They know they can fix it.
"Top down, we know how to do development. It works," said Mats Karlsson of the World Bank. "But it cannot be sustained unless you empower from below."
Ideally, the change in mindset spills over to subsequent projects. "Making day 101 work would seem to be about building a culture around iterations. Day 101 is the first day of the next 100 day sprint," wrote Brian Behlendorf from Geneva (3). Matta defined true success as seeing people collaborate with each other in new ways and assuming total local control of the process - no outsiders necessary.
The sustainability of Rapid Results has not been formally evaluated, and there is anecdotal evidence on all sides. The H.I.V.-testing initiative at the PreFabricated Building Parts Production Enterprise that I wrote about on Friday, for example, is still keeping test rates high - but the planning director Seife Mergia said that while PreFabricated intended to adopt Rapid Results methods for use in its business, three years after the initiative it has not yet done so. In Nicaragua, where Rapid Results were used to improve the purity of milk and to create a better pig feed, the gains from the projects remain, but it has been a challenge to get many farmers to adapt the new techniques. And only a few organizations are still using Rapid Results in other projects.
In Kenya, however, Rapid Results Initiatives are making a widespread and lasting difference. Emmanuel Lubembe, the head of Kenya's Public Service Transformation Department, said that more than 100 public institutions are using Rapid Results Initiatives on an ongoing basis. "We take a long term objective and break it down into 100-day manageable results," he said. For example, Kenya is building a school of government, to train public servants. "Our first R.R.I. is to have a strategic plan in place. Then the second: to set out the steps to turn this into a reality in a year and a half.
"We are trying to use R.R.I.s to institutionalize results-based management - copying what the private sector does," he said. In others, words Rapid Results Initiatives are being used to institutionalize Rapid Results Initiatives.
"The issue is how to lock it in so that it becomes a way of life," said Lubembe. "But there have been attitudinal changes. There's a team ethic: it's clear if the team doesn't work together and meet regularly you won't be able to accomplish the task. And there's a new focus on the need to get results, not just do a process. They have satisfaction in achieving results."
The change in mindset that Matta seeks isn't just needed in poor countries. Rapid Results is a very different way of doing business for development organizations. "The whole development world suffers from thinking up solutions in Washington or Geneva and leaving people on the ground out of the picture," said Susan Stout, who is retired from the World Bank, where she used Rapid Results in anti-H.I.V. work. "We figure out what is technically appropriate, then decide no one has the capacity, so we build it. Instead, Rapid Results asks them: how would you solve it? You get much more commitment. You get heart and soul."

        
Making Change Happen, on a Deadline
        
Beyond Ribbon-Cutting
        
Health Care and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance
        
How About a Little Danish?
        
Drugs, Risk and the Myth of the 'Evil' Addict

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%) Africa; development; health; Social Change; Matta, Nadim F; Medicine and Health; Rapid Results Institute; World Bank; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: Rapid Results Institute; World Bank

PERSON: Matta, Nadim F

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



162 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Propane Powers Patrol Cars in North Carolina

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: A fleet of Ford Crown Victoria cruisers in Iredell County have been converted to propane, a process financed partly by money confiscated in drug busts. 

 BODY:
Thanks in part to confiscated drug money, criminals in Iredell County, N.C., may catch a ride in a patrol car powered by liquid propane.
According to Mike Phillips, captain of the enforcement division for the county, the conversion project began last year with a grant through the state university's North Carolina Solar Center. The grant helped to convert 13 of the office's 150 Ford Crown Victoria cruisers to the same form of propane used in gas grilles, which contains butane and is also known as liquefied petroleum gas or autogas. The grant was supplemented by $20,000 in matching funds from the department's drug-money hauls.
Since Sheriff Phillip Redmond was elected in 1994, the department has confiscated $170 million worth of drugs and $7 million in cash from dealers, Mr. Phillips said in an interview. The cash has been applied to "projects that the county may not budget," Mr. Phillips said. "With the economy the way it is, budgets are restrained, so we might use some of that money to buy vehicles one year." Cars that might have been used in the commission of crimes are sometimes pressed into service as undercover vehicles, he said.
With $56,000 in seized funds to match another grant from the Solar Center, the department has begun to convert a second group of 16 cruisers to propane.
"We're saving 40 to 50 percent on fuel costs," Mr. Phillips said. "We like the fact that the cars are clean burning and efficient, and we like that they're dual fuel. They start on gasoline, then automatically switch to propane." The conversion includes installing propane tanks in the trunks of the pursuit vehicles, as well as a small network of fueling stations that Mr. Phillips said "look just like gas pumps."
The Associated Press reported last March that crystal meth arrests are up sharply in North Carolina, which the State Bureau of Investigation attributes to a method of producing the drug in "one-pot labs" built around something as small as a two-liter soda bottle. Some of these highly toxic small-scale drug labs have been found in car trunks. Mr. Phillips has not encountered these mobile labs, but he said that dealers were applying "that kind of creativity" to their trade.
According to Alliance AutoGas, a coalition whose member companies converted the Iredell County patrol cars, there were more than 2,500 propane refueling stations in the United States. Jason Jepson, a spokesman for the alliance, said that the fuel retailed for about $2.50 a gallon.
Steve Whaley, research and development director of the organization, said that the group had converted more than 2,000 vehicles to propane, with 1,000 more likely to be converted in the next six months. It has worked with 20 law-enforcement agencies, mostly in the Southeast.
"Law enforcement is extremely demanding about its transportation, in terms of performance and reliability," Mr. Whaley said. "We chose to work in that challenging environment early on, because if the first responders start doing it, then everyone else does it."

        
With Off-Lease Cars, Firm Sees Increase in Odometer Tampering
        
Announcement of 2017-25 Federal Fuel Efficiency Standards Delayed Until November
        
In California, a New Lemon Law to Protect Used-Car Shoppers
        
OnStar Backtracks on Collection of Data From Ex-Subscribers
        
Wheelies: The Preservation Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (90%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROPANE (90%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUTANE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); METHAMPHETAMINE (66%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%) Ford Crown Victoria; laws and legislation; Police; propane; Automobiles; Drug Abuse and Traffic; North Carolina; Environment; Fuel Efficiency; Technology

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



163 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: A Walk in the South Bronx With the Planning Commissioner and Our Architecture Critic

BYLINE: MICHAEL KIMMELMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Touring the South Bronx, and shooting a video, with Amanda M. Burden, the city planning commissioner, and Michael Kimmelman, the New York Times architecture critic. 

 BODY:
Following up on my reviewlast week of Via Verde, a groundbreaking green housing project soon to be completed in the Melrose section of the South Bronx, I took a walk around that neighborhood with Amanda M. Burden, director the Department of City Planning under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. We shot some video of our tour; please watch it by clicking here.
Via Verde aside, nearly a dozen public housing complexes have been built in Melrose during the last decade, as part of the mayor's $3 billion initiative to add some 165,000 new subsidized apartments around the city. It seemed like a good idea to make the video to give Times readers a look at a few of the buildings and some sense of the scope of the change that has come to the South Bronx. 
None of the city-sponsored housing developments is as architecturally ambitious as Via Verde, a public-private initiative, and they are not as meticulously built, but they are examples of the latest thinking about what subsidized housing should look like in this neighborhood. The idea is to increase urban density, with large-scale apartment buildings modeled after what you might call traditional brick-faced New York City apartment houses. So there are retail spaces on the ground floor and trees along the sidewalks. And the best of the places roughly mimic an old Upper West Side building. St. Ann's, just around the corner from Via Verde, is a prime example: Occupying an entire city block, the facade is varied to make it appear as if there were several buildings instead of one giant one, and to bring the appearance of the scale down to something a little less overwhelming.
We didn't show in the video enough of the single family, brownstone-style housing that has also restored a little stoop life to various blocks, along with home-ownership. The latest census shows that people have been moving back to the South Bronx in big numbers. It's a still a poor neighborhood. Housing isn't the same as jobs, after all, but as Ms. Burden remarks in the video, one is dependent on the other. And in the end, because all parts of the the city are interdependent, the entire city benefits when this area improves.
We're still figuring out the best way to open up a forum for discussion of architecture and urbanism, but meanwhile we're welcoming comments and hoping you'll follow me on Twitter: @kimmelman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CENSUS (50%) Amanda M. Burden; South Bronx; Via Verde; Burden, Amanda M; Architecture; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); South Bronx (NYC); art & design; featured; New York City

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Burden, Amanda M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) South Bronx (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



164 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Chopping Down Trees to Save Forests

BYLINE: SEAN PATRICK FARRELL


HIGHLIGHT: A consensus is emerging that decades of suppression of small fires is a leading cause of the recent huge destructive ones. 

 BODY:
Jim Pitts stood on a Forest Service road near the Arizona town of Nutrioso and surveyed the damage in the valley below. It was July, and only a few weeks earlier the Wallow Fire, the largest in recorded history in Arizona, had swept through this section of steep slopes and tightly packed trees. 
"This is pretty devastating, both from the forest standpoint and the human aspect," said Mr. Pitts, a Forest Service silviculturist. "It's going to take a long time to get this forest back to the way it was. It won't happen in my lifetime when it's got to start over."
Temperatures in the fire could have been as high as 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit, Mr. Pitts figured. Heat like that cooks trees to death from across roads. Nearly a half-million acres of forest burned in the Wallow Fire, which followed another huge and destructive wildfire, the Rodeo-Chediski in 2002.
"Certainly, over the last decade, we're seeing more large fires more frequently," said Christopher M. Knopp, the forest supervisor of the Apache-Sitgreaves National Forest.

I conveyed the magnitude and import of these huge Southwestern forest fires in a video report posted at the Times Web site this weekend. Focusing on Arizona, it was produced to accompany a major article by my colleague Justin Gillis, who reported from Montana about what seems to be a rising trend of forest die-backs around the world. 
The article talked about HUGE fires and beetle kills that, aside from their local effects, raise questions about the ability of the world's forests to keep taking up the carbon dioxide that humans are emitting. Mr. Gillis found that climate change poses a risk to forests, particularly in the already dry climate of the American Southwest. 
In Arizona, the most interesting thing I found was that big, destructive fires have caused many groups to seek common ground in reversing the trend. A coalition of land managers, scientists, environmentalists and loggers have come together to combat the fires, making strange bedfellows of groups that fought each other during the timber wars of the 1990s.
The emerging consensus is that the Ponderosa pine forests of northern Arizona and New Mexico have been mismanaged for more than a century. Small ground fires historically burned through these forests with some regularity, keeping the trees widely spaced. But decades of fire suppression have allowed trees to grow so thick that the forests are now referred to as "dog-hair thickets."
The small fires of old would generally leave large Ponderosa pines intact; the trees have a spongy bark that resists ground fires. But in an overgrown forest, flames can climb the small trees into the high forest canopy, creating a "crown fire" that can leap with the winds and take out thousands of acres quickly. While crown fires can play an important ecological role in other types of forests, for Ponderosa forests they can be highly destructive and a liability to the forest's ability to capture and store carbon.
Massive fires like the Wallow and the Rodeo-Chediski not only pour carbon back into the atmosphere; if areas are burned badly enough, the forest can be permanently destroyed. Ongoing climate change makes that more likely, favoring heat-tolerant grasses and shrubs over trees. I visited areas burned in the Rodeo-Chediski fire that are not recovering as forest a decade later, and Mr. Gillis saw the same thing in Montana.
Many now believe the solution, across much of the West, is to cut down the spindly dog-hair trees and restore forests to something akin to historic density levels, at times reducing the tree cover from as many as 800 an acre to fewer than 100.
The White Mountain Stewardship Project, created after the Rodeo-Chediski fire, serves as an example of a way that various stakeholders have been able to nurse some forest areas back to health. In our video, Dwayne Walker, a fourth-generation timber man, speaks of the return of logging and jobs in some of the poorest parts of Arizona. 
Mr. Walker and his business partner Rob Davis run a company called Future Forest; they won the White Mountain Stewardship contract to thin 150,000 acres over a 10-year period. 
Mr. Davis, who runs a wood pellet manufacturing facility in Show Low, Ariz., has helped to build an economically viable way to put some of the smaller trees clogging the Southwest's forests to use. Many in nearby communities credit the thinning and the hard work of fire crews with saving their homes and businesses. 
Mr. Davis argues that better management preserves forests and their ability to clean the air, filter water and store carbon dioxide. "I don't think the country gets how much benefit we get from having healthy, sound, sustainable forests," he said.
Many experts say treating forests pre-emptively could be more cost-effective than fighting huge forest fires. Yet, in tight budget times, the United States Forest Service does not have nearly enough money to do the work. Still, a new program called the Four Forests Restoration Initiative is taking shape and aims to thin more acres.
"The big limitation on all of this, when we're talking about treating the forest, is economics," said Mr. Knopp, the Forest Service supervisor. The Wallow Fire "points out that the quantity of material that we've been able to treat, even though it was strategic and was logical, it wasn't enough."

        
Dying Forests: How Bad Is It, Really?
        
Natural Causes Drove Russian Heat Wave, Study Finds
        
On Our Radar: BP Writes Off Spill Costs
        
Forests and Climate Change: Ask the Reporter a Question
        
Does the Southwest Face a Mega-Drought?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (92%); FIRES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); TRENDS (87%); HISTORY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%) Apache-Sitgreaves National Forest; Arizona; beetles; Carbon Dioxide; carbon sequestration; climate change; Drought; forest fires; Forest Service; forests; Montana; New Mexico; Rodeo-Chediski; Wallow Fire; wildfires; Fires and Firefighters; Forest and Brush Fires; Forests and Forestry; Global Warming; Logging Industry; Southwestern States (US); Living; Politics and Policy; Science

ORGANIZATION: Forest Service

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (98%); SOUTHWEST, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) Arizona; Montana; Southwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



165 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Losing the Family Car

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A guest post by Corbyn Hanson Hightower, whose earlier post about dumpster diving to feed her family struck a chord with readers. 

 BODY:
One of the more memorable posts on Motherlode was Corbyn Hanson Hightower's account of dumpster diving to feed her family. What struck so many of you were not the facts of her life -- losing a six-figure job, running through her savings, supporting her family by cleaning houses and finding food where she could. What most of you talked about was her tone, her spirit, as she described that fall. She had no apologies for her missteps, and she was determined that in spite of her current straits, that she eat well. Is organic food, you wondered, an entitlement? Is it worth slogging through the trash?
Ms. Hightower has been writing more of her story (for what she hopes will eventually be a book). In a guest post today she tells another part of her tale, about the love and loss of another possession that limns the line between want and need in America -- the family car.
IN SLOW MOTION
By Corbyn Hanson Hightower
What does it feel like to fall off a cliff in slow motion? In 2008, we watched ourselves go from being an affluent family to living below the poverty line. My job as a well-compensated sales rep nearly vanished overnight as retailers pulled the plug on orders in response to stock market woes, the housing crisis and a sudden free-fall in customer spending.
It became a kind of scrambling panic, this realization every month that nothing was coming in, and again we'd be forced to cut some slice off of the whole. We had been making reductions in places where it wouldn't cut so close to the quick, where it wouldn't cause the blood to well and rise. We told ourselves, "It's temporary," and we glossed over things like letting go of health insurance for the few months until the new plan kicked in with the kind of optimism that defines "survival mechanism." My husband was starting his new job, and we felt like we'd managed to grab the edge of the life raft just as it was drifting away.
When the cable and Internet got shut off, I could hide my shame and embarrassment from the kids, who were oblivious to the threatening collection letters. None of us had to face the person sent out to solemnly sever our connection to the world, since they can do it all externally without having to enter the house. I knew my youngest child would be okay. Molly takes everything in stride, and embraces change. But I worried about my two older kids, who take such comfort in things reliable, familiar and stable. Having access to TV shows and the Web whenever needed was something they'd never been without. But still, I could reassure myself it was not a forever-thing, and that we would eventually breach that financial stranglehold and it would all be turned on again, as though nothing had happened.
But selling the car meant no turning back. Our Honda S.U.V. was only three years old, and it was the first new car I had ever owned. I traveled from city to city to earn money for my family when I worked at my sales job, and this was the capsule that carried me along to the accompaniment of satellite radio and my own self-important chatter on the Bluetooth. The leather seats smelled like I was slipping into the kind of purses I had started to carry as my commission checks swelled. Twice a year, I got it detailed to shining perfection. I remember once grabbing the worker's red towel and buffing off a small spot of road grime I spied on an edge of the license plate, with an apologetic smile.
Because we didn't yet own a house, this was our most visible claim to the comforts of our income level. Emerging from the frosty air-conditioning of my stalwart Honda, I would arrive at meetings in the morale-sapping endless Texas summers as pristine as when I had left home. When I had to get it serviced, the sybaritic dealership had employees who called me ma'am, and brought me coffee in a china cup and a copy of the Wall Street Journal while I waited.
It was also our family vehicle, and when I wasn't working, we clicked the children into the fanciest and safest car seats money could buy. We took long drives to the rolling wooded hills outside town, often just meandering leisurely, filling the gas tank without concern. This didn't seem indulgent at the time, it seemed more just what families did on long unplanned weekend days. Nothing we were doing felt extravagant at the time. Walking to my car with my keyless-entry fob in hand made me feel cared for. My car looked handsome in the parking lot. I liked that it was luxurious while also being (relatively) fuel-efficient for an S.U.V. I sometimes congratulated myself at having made a good choice.
It was completely paid-off, but the costs associated with insuring our car, maintaining it and fueling it were taking us over the edge. A few times we had pondered driving out to the coast, or maybe into San Francisco for the day . . . but the money required to fill the gas tank was galling. We were months behind on electricity and rent. Selling it would give us $15-$20 K of breathing room, and allow us to carry on for quite a bit longer while we established new income streams. Larry had always indulged me by calling it My Car, the car I paid for with my sales job, the car I lovingly shined and kept vacuumed, and the car that it would ultimately be my own decision to sell. In the end, though, this wasn't a decision I needed to make or we needed to make. The decision was being made for us.
As I posted my ad on Craigslist, I felt a combined anger and sadness. ("Excellent condition 2006 Honda Pilot with leather interior. Silver. Seats seven, or eight in a pinch. Clean title, impeccably maintained . . . ") And then, a breaking sort of goddamn it, we don't need this car, this car doesn't define me and it doesn't define my family. That safety it represented was an illusion. Or rather, the safety it offered now was in what it could give us financially.
After a panicky few days where we worried if we would even have any takers, we got a serious offer from a young family. We played phone tag, traded banter, and became friendly. And one night, they handed us a cashier's check and drove off in our last asset. Now we could keep our family afloat for another year. I was sad, and yes, I was a little jealous of this successful young couple that had weathered these tough years better than we had. I was worried when Zeke wanted to watch them drive away. I kept gently herding him into the house, trying to discourage him from that moment of loss, but he wanted to see it. He needed to see it and say it out loud: "They're taking our car. They're going to have it now. That's not our car anymore."
Some quiet reflection and then, "Are they bringing it back later?"
No, Zeke, they're not bringing it back.

        
Are Poor Parents Poorer at Parenting?
        
Does a Bad Economy Bring Families Together?
        
More Abortions in a Recession
        
Telecommuting During Tough Times
        
Unemployed Dads at Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (71%); RETAILERS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) poverty; recession

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



166 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Play Key Role as City Entrepreneurs, Study Finds

BYLINE: PATRICK WALL


HIGHLIGHT: While immigrants constitute just over a third of the city's population, they own about 48 percent of the city's small businesses, according to a study published by the Fiscal Policy Institute. 

 BODY:
Any taxi-riding, bodega-shopping, laundromat-using New Yorker knows that immigrants own many of the businesses that make New York tick. Now a new study shows that while immigrants constitute just over a third of the city's population, they make up nearly half of the city's small-business owners.
The study, published Monday by the Fiscal Policy Institute and based on census data, found that more than 69,000 New York City business owners - about 48 percent of the total - are foreign born. These immigrant entrepreneurs hail from around the world and run companies in every sector of the economy. But in certain lines of business, including dry cleaning, taxi services and grocery stores, the study shows that immigrant owners dominate. 
"When you think of New York neighborhoods, you think about the stores and restaurants and groceries," said David Dyssegaard Kallick, a senior fellow at the institute - a union-supported, nonpartisan research and advocacy group. "Those are the kinds of small businesses where immigrants are playing a particularly strong role."
 (pdf) is based on a five-year sample of data from the 2005-9 American Community Survey. It defines small business owners as self-employed people with incorporated businesses, which excludes corporations and nonprofits.
The country whose natives make up the largest share of immigrant business owners is China, with about 9 percent of the total, followed by the Dominican Republic, Korea, India, Italy, Greece, Colombia, countries of the former Soviet Union, Israel and the Palestinian territories and Jamaica. Another 55 percent of foreign-born owners come from other countries.
Immigrant business owners represent a majority in several industry sectors, including transportation and warehousing, retail trade, construction, wholesale trade and manufacturing. Within those broad sectors, foreign-born ownership of certain types of businesses dwarfs United States-born ownership. A full 90 percent of the city's dry cleaning and taxi service owners are immigrants, as are 84 percent of grocery store owners and 75 percent of child day care owners.
Immigrants also have a strong presence in higher-skilled professions. Among computer systems design, architectural and engineering businesses, 40 percent of owners are foreign born.
The study notes that while the percentage of immigrant business owners is greater than the share of immigrants in the overall population, it is similar to the share of immigrants in the labor force, which is 46 percent. This means that New York's immigrants are more likely than their American-born peers both to own small businesses and to be in the labor force.
A 2008 analysis by the federal Small Business Administration found that, across the country, immigrants are nearly 30 percent more likely to start a business than are nonimmigrants. 
Despite their numbers, immigrant entrepreneurs must navigate a sea of obstacles beyond the normal challenges that all small business owners face. One recent study showed that immigrants in New York were less likely than nonimmigrants to own a business that has been running for more than three-and-a-half years, and more likely to have shut down a business within the past year.
One commonly cited hurdle is a lack of access to the capital needed to start or expand a company. While most banks hesitate to loan money to any small business, which can be a risky, time-consuming process, they are especially reluctant to lend to immigrants, who often have little collateral and bad or nonexistent credit histories, experts say.
The situation is made worse for immigrants when banks send loan applications to distant offices to be evaluated, said Paul Quintero, CEO of ACCION USA, a New York-based microlender.
"You put an application in and it's processed by someone in Omaha," said Mr. Quintero. This disadvantages immigrants, who need "people that can look into the white of your eyes, speak your language and understand where you're coming from."
The average ACCION small business loan is about $7,000 and, in New York City, a majority of borrowers are immigrants. 
In Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Abel Cherubin, a native of Haiti, has prepared taxes for a local clientele -- a mix of working-class blacks, Latinos and West Indians -- from a rented storefront for more than a decade. But his his client base has shrunk to 300 customers from a peak of 800 and he has had to lay off his last few employees. He has fallen $6,000 behind on the rent and received an eviction notice last month.
"Maybe three, four months I could be out of business," said Mr. Cherubin, 55, who during the recession has borrowed money from a friend rather than approach a lender, after being turned down for loans in the past. "That's my worry: I'm afraid one day I won't have that door to be open."
Another major barrier for foreign-born entrepreneurs is confusion about the city's myriad business regulations. Whether because of inexperience, language problems or reliance on informal business networks, immigrants often misunderstand or are unaware of the rules regarding tax filing, permits and practices.
For instance, many ground-floor merchants in Chinatown do not realize they are responsible for cleaning the sidewalks outside their shops until they are fined for noncompliance, said Larry Mei, a business counselor at the Chinatown Manpower Project.
"The business here is more regulated," Mr. Mei said. "In China, they don't have that many agencies that look after the businesses."
This year, the city introduced three new initiatives intended to support immigrant business owners. They include a competition that awarded funds to organizations that assist foreign-born entrepreneurs, free business classes to be offered in five non-English languages and an expo this month that will showcase immigrant-owned food manufacturing businesses.

        
Answers About Entrepreneurship, Part 2
        
Answers About Entrepreneurship
        
Ask About Entrepreneurship
        
'Worst' No Longer Describes New York Commuting Time
        
TimesCast: Slipping Into Poverty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); CENSUS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CHILD CARE (50%) Census; entrepreneurs; Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Immigration and Emigration; Chinatown Manpower Project; Fiscal Policy Institute; Jackson Heights (NYC); Business; Highlights; Immigration

ORGANIZATION: Chinatown Manpower Project; Fiscal Policy Institute

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Jackson Heights (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



167 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Promoting More Visits Between Korea and New York

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Hoping to increase the number of visitors to New York City during the usually slow period after the December holidays, the city's tourism agency announced a partnership with the city of Seoul and Korean Air. 

 BODY:
 Hoping to increase the number of visitors to New York City during the usually slow period after the December holidays, the city's tourism agency announced a partnership with the city of Seoul and Korean Air on Tuesday.
 The yearlong arrangement involves reciprocal advertising on billboards and discounted flights on Korean Air this winter, said George A. Fertitta, the chief executive of NYC & Company. NYC & Company also created a Facebook page to promote New York to Koreans.
 Mr. Fertitta and the acting mayor of Seoul, Young-Gyu Kwon, announced the alliance between the cities at a news conference in Seoul, which was also attended by Kee-Hong Woo, managing vice president of Korean Air. 
 "Our new partnership with Seoul in collaboration with Korean Air is an innovative alliance, which will help us build tourism between our two cities, creating demand for the holiday and winter travel periods, including the Lunar New Year," Mr. Fertitta said.
 He said that 133 posters promoting New York City would appear on the streets of Seoul and in its main train station. In exchange, 70 posters promoting Seoul will appear in New York, along with ads on a video screen in Times Square. 
 The mayor of Seoul said that the alliance would help his city achieve its goal of attracting 10 million visitors annually while helping New York reach the target of 50 million annual tourists that was set a few years ago by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 Last year, the number of visitors to New York from Seoul rose by about 10 percent to 223,000, according to NYC & Company data. Those tourists spent an estimated $684 million, or an average of about $2,800 each, its figures show. About three times as many Americans - 653,000 - visited Seoul last year, the agency said.
 The discounted airfares from New York to Seoul will start at $1,295 for flights between Nov. 1 and March 31, 2012. 

        
$13.5 Million in Incentives Lures a Publishing Company
        
Steuben Glass Factory and Store to Close
        
Want to Visit 9/11 Memorial? Get Online (For a Ticket)
        
Obama Jobs Plan Would Boost the City, Comptroller Says
        
Would You Go to Liberty I. With Statue Closed?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); AIR FARES (89%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MAYORS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); GLASS MFG (50%); PUBLISHING (50%) economy; tourism; Travel and Vacations; Korean Air Lines; NYC & Co; Business; Highlights; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Korean Air Lines; NYC & Co

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



168 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: City Agencies Are Told to Cut Costs by $2 Billion

BYLINE: DAVID W. CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Agencies are being asked to cut 2 percent from their budgets for the current fiscal year, which ends in June 2012, and 6 percent from proposed budgets for the following fiscal year. 

 BODY:
Citing a grim economic outlook and dimming prospects for state and federal aid, the Bloomberg administration on Tuesday asked city agencies to pare $2 billion from their budgets over the next 18 months.
Mark Page, director of the mayor's Office of Management and Budget, wrote in a letter that agencies would be asked to cut 2 percent from their budgets for the current fiscal year, which ends in June 2012, and 6 percent from their proposed budgets for the following fiscal year. And he could not rule out additional cuts, either. (The complete letter is posted below.)
"Obviously, reductions submitted do not necessarily represent the final outcome of resource allocation for your agency," Mr. Page wrote. "Depending on the economic circumstances we face, and federal and state actions, the size of cuts may need to increase, and implementation may need to be accelerated or other changes implemented."
The decision to seek across-the-board cuts marks a return to a previous budget-cutting strategy for the city, which for the last several years had made smaller cuts in the Education Department and the city's uniformed services and deeper cuts elsewhere.
If carried out, the budget cuts would help plug a projected $4.6 billion shortfall in the next fiscal year caused in part by sluggish tax revenue, ballooning spending in some areas and higher costs for employee pension and health benefits. 
Midyear budget adjustments have become standard practice in the city in recent years, and have usually been accomplished through spending cuts, tax increases or both. In 2008, for instance, the administration persuaded the City Council to push through a $1.2 billion increase in property taxes.
On Tuesday, the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, who has been an ally of Mr. Bloomberg, said through a spokesman that "the cuts sought by the mayor are sizable" and the Council would try to preserve core programs. At the same time, she said that "with revenues falling and a multibillion-dollar deficit looming, it's prudent to begin looking closely at the city's budget now."
The budget letter comes as 716 of New York City's lowest-paid workers - school aides, parent coordinators and other members of school support staffs - are expected to lose their jobs on Friday. The layoffs were announced in August.
When asked about the latest budget cuts, Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said that city schools "have been cut to the bone" and were already stretched to their limit. But he also said the union had a guarantee that none of its members would be laid off this year and "we expect them to live up to their word."
Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, warned of projected cuts to the Police Department. "The last thing this city should plan to do for the future," Mr. Lynch said, "is to reduce the staffing of the N.Y.P.D., which has already been stripped to the bone in our local neighborhood precincts. Staffing cuts over the past 10 years have left our ranks overworked and demoralized."

        
Athens on the Hudson
        
Bloomberg Moves to Block Teachers' Raises
        
Study Says Higher-Wage Bill for City Projects Would Cost Jobs
        
Like Putin, Like Bloomberg
        
Bloomberg to Testify at Trial of Consultant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX INCREASES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); PARAEDUCATORS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%) department of education; job reductions; layoffs; Michael Bloomberg; Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City budget; Bloomberg, Michael R; Budgets and Budgeting; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Education Department (NYC); New York City; City Hall; Highlights

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%) Education Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



169 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: National Spotlight on Christie Misses a State Full of Troubles

BYLINE: MICHAEL POWELL


HIGHLIGHT: In this Gotham Extra, Michael Powell walks out of the State House in Trenton, where a certain non-candidate met the press and state cuts have forced a one-third reduction in the police force. 

 BODY:
TRENTON - New Jersey's Big Man has peered into the right-wing abyss that is the Republican presidential primary and stepped away.
Fair enough. 
That he will remain a formidable presence is beyond argument. He has rolled unions and won pension givebacks, and his ratings in this blue state sometimes look red state friendly.
With his Jersey Guy spiel, he is described as unscripted, which is Lesson 433 in the eternal gullibility of journalists. He writes the script to appear unscripted - and his staff posts evidence of his "spontaneity" on YouTube.
It's all great theater. As the governor acknowledged on Tuesday afternoon, he is left to wrestle with the prosaic reality of governing in a recession. "It just never felt right to me to leave now," he said. 
In fact, Mr. Christie has presided over nothing like a New Jersey Miracle. It's a scripted mirage.
Income and jobs in this middle-class state are tumbling downward. Mr. Christie's chief economist regularly claims to discern rays of sunshine, but private-sector jobs shrank last month, and the unemployment rate is higher than a year ago. Tax receipts are comatose.
And New Jersey's cities remain aggressively forgotten by the governor. 
In Trenton on Friday, I stepped out of a State House hot with presidential fever, crossed State Street and walked a block north. A gentleman offered to sell me a nickel bag of pot. I apologized that the timing was all wrong, and continued down a tenement block to Calhoun Street.
There, seven young black men commanded a corner in their best gang-color strut, with that melancholy adolescent admixture of menace and fear. A mother with a daughter and a tiny woman pushing a laundry cart gave them wide berth.
Trenton's mayor, Tony Mack, recently let go one-third of his police force. He knows this is demented public policy, but state aid cuts have left him with a $27 million hole in his budget.
Mr. Mack occupies a City Hall where the white marble is stained green and crumbling. Weeds are conducting hostile takeovers of flower beds. "It's a pretty dismal picture right now," he said.
The violent crime rate in Trenton is twice that of New York City's, and the New Jersey city has, per capita, a third fewer police officers. How will that play out?
"Well, I mean, I hope it won't have a drastic effect," the mayor replied.
Is the governor any help?
Mr. Mack's voice falls. "There's dialogue, but revenue hasn't followed our conversation," he said.
Does that bother you?
"The governor is governing," he said, "according to his thought processes."
New Jersey's politics rarely are more dispiriting than when you search for a mayor with outrage to spare.
Camden's mayor all but hides in her office, for fear she will utter a word that displeases her political boss, George E. Norcross III, a Democrat who has cut handsome deals with Mr. Christie.
Newark's mayor, Cory A. Booker, is the Stanford-and-Yale-educated darling of the hedge fund set, and a considerable step up from the wily old crook who preceded him. But his staff's strangled silence about state cuts is impressive. Newark sits in Essex County, which is run by Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., a Democrat who also plays well with the governor, perhaps a presidential candidate someday.
The state is hamstrung by these county political warlords.
Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat who was governor, cut deals with these fellows, and Mr. Christie might argue that he simply plays the game with more panache. Although, given that Mr. Christie was a United States attorney charged with investigating the generous levels of corruption here, you might hike an eyebrow at his explanation.
In 2002, just before the primary election, United States Attorney Christie issued a letter stating that Mr. DiVincenzo, who was a candidate, was not under federal investigation; this highly unusual move reportedly left Mr. DiVincenzo greatly touched.
These bosses could perhaps prevail upon Governor Christie to open the spigots and let aid flow into their cities. But help for now remains a dry streambed.
Last week in Trenton, thugs shot up a popular restaurant. Another fellow emptied a semiautomatic pistol into parked cars. The police collected 61 bullet shells.
You walk Paul Avenue here, and in the shadow of a sycamore, a middle-age fellow wearing shorts swings his 5-iron to laughs from a porch full of gangbangers.
Barbara Cameron, a wiry, 30-year resident, peers out her door. "The bangers don't pull junk on this block, but don't go around the corner, no, no," she said.
Ask about the governor's presidential reverie, and she shakes her head.
"You could just say we're forgotten here," she said, "but don't we live in New Jersey, too?"

        
Christie Decides Against Presidential Bid
        
Before 9/11 Ceremony, Back-Room Maneuvers
        
Old Lesson for New, Tough-Talking Governors: 'It's the Economy ...'
        
Talk of President Cuomo? 2016 Is a Long Way Off
        
Principle and Politics (Minus Details) in Trenton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CRIME RATES (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); WRITERS (71%); CITIES (71%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); TAKEOVERS (64%); VIOLENT CRIME (62%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Gov. Chris Christie; New Jersey; Booker, Cory A; Christie, Christopher J; Corzine, Jon S; Mack, Tony; Politics and Government; Trenton (NJ); Gotham Extra

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%) Booker, Cory A; Christie, Christopher J; Corzine, Jon S; Mack, Tony

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; Trenton (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



170 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Mets to Reduce Season-Ticket Prices for 2012

BYLINE: ANDREW KEH


HIGHLIGHT: The majority of season-ticket holders will pay less for Mets tickets in 2012. 

 BODY:
In the wake of another sizable drop in attendance, the Mets have announced that they were again cutting ticket prices.
The Mets' attendance fell 7 percent in 2011, their second annual decline since moving to Citi Field, as the team logged its third consecutive fourth-place finish. That, with the continued weak economy, prompted the team to readjust prices for many of its season tickets in hopes of prompting fans to return.
It is the third consecutive year that the team has lowered prices. Next year, no full 81-game season-ticket holder will pay more than this year, and more than 80 percent of them will have their ticket prices fall at least 5 percent. Tickets in about half the ballpark will be $25.
"It's primarily the economy and the team performance," said Dave Howard, who is in charge of the Mets' business operations.
The team has not announced prices for its partial season ticket plans yet.
For the first time, the Mets will also start pricing tickets dynamically, which other teams have been doing for several years. This allows the team to cut or raise ticket prices during the season based on demand. If the Mets are on a winning streak and the Phillies are in town, the team might raise prices. If rain is in the forecast for a midweek game, the team can lower prices to spur sales.
The Mets have also simplified their price tiers, which have sometimes confused fans, by eliminating about eight of them.
"It should be less of an eye chart," Howard said.
The Mets drew 3,154,270 fans in 2009, the year Citi Field opened, but the team finished with an unsightly 70-92 record. The Mets then cut ticket prices by as much as 20 percent on some seats for 2010, but another losing year on the field - the team was 79-83 - and Citi Field's diminished novelty helped lead to a 19 percent drop in attendance, with the Mets finishing with a home attendance of 2,559,738.
For the 2011 season, the Mets cut ticket prices by an average of a further 14 percent, and more than 60 percent of all tickets were reduced by some amount. But while the Mets seemed to overachieve much of the time, they staggered to the finish with a 77-85 record, and once again, attendance dropped, this time to 2,378,549 fans.
With the team' s ownership still trying to resolve its continuing financial problems, the Mets are expected to spend less money on payroll in 2012 than they did this season, and they may not make any marquee signings - unless they can convince Jose Reyes not to leave as a free agent. And if they do not re-sign Reyes, an already discontented fan base may be even more upset.
Amid such issues, it cannot hurt to make prices cheaper.
Over all, the Mets said, the ticket prices for 80 percent of the seats at Citi Field will be reduced by at least 5 percent; 57 percent of the seats will be reduced by at least 10 percent; and 18 percent of the seats will have a price drop of at least 30 percent. But it will also help if the Mets can find a way to be contenders again.

        
Bay's Bunts Can't Clear Up Foggy Night for Mets
        
No Longer a Home Away From Home
        
Mets vs. Giants: A Home Run-Free Series?
        
For the Mets, a Traditional Ugly Ending
        
Actually, Citi Field Is Not That Bad for the Mets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%) Citi Field; New York Mets; Citi Field (NYC)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%) Citi Field (NYC); New York Mets

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



171 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Carrier Rivalry Sharpens as iPhone Comes to Sprint

BYLINE: JENNA WORTHAM


HIGHLIGHT: As the iPhone migrates to another carrier in the United States, expect the competition between the major wireless companies to get much fiercer. 

 BODY:
Apple's speedier, fancier version of the iPhone 4, the 4S, will sharpen Apple's competition with Google, whose Android operating system has been gaining market share.
But Tuesday's announcement will also probably fan the flames of a rivalry that is almost as fierce. Apple announced that in addition to AT&T and Verizon, Sprint will begin selling the iPhone 4S, beginning Oct. 14. For years, AT&T benefited from being the only American carrier with the iPhone. And Verizon saw an increase in sales once it added the device to its portfolio, albeit a minor one. 
The carriers are counting on the lucrative revenue generated by smartphone owners and the expensive data plans that those devices require to buoy their financial outlook as they move away from their legacy landline businesses. Now that most people in the country own a cellphone, one of the last remaining areas of growth is getting them to upgrade to more sophisticated smartphones. 
For Sprint, the stakes are even higher. The beleaguered carrier has a lot riding on the success of its ability to sell the iPhone on its network. 
But does Sprint have a shot at luring customers away from AT&T and Verizon? Sprint may have one advantage -- it still offers unlimited data plans for its line of smartphones, something that Verizon and AT&T have already abandoned in favor of tiered data plans.
We've already seen the carriers taking potshots at one another in advertising campaigns and trying to appeal to consumers by adjusting their pricing structures. AT&T has announced that it will give away the iPhone 3GS free for new contract subscribers on its network -- something Verizon and Sprint cannot offer, as there is no compatible version of that phone model for their respective networks.
"The elbows are getting sharper," said Charles Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research. "Now that they have most of the same portfolio, we're going to start to see the carriers hone in on their own offerings as a way to pitch themselves."
Verizon will probably promote the quality of its network, he said, while AT&T will boast about its download speeds and having the broadest portfolio of iPhones, with the iPhone 3GS, 4 and 4S. Sprint's ace will be its unlimited data plans.
Expect the battleground to get bloodier in the coming weeks as the iPhone 4S goes on sale.

        
Will Apple Put the iPhone on Other Carriers?
        
Testing the Android Waters
        
Creative Solutions to iPhone Service Woes
        
The Fog of Cellphone Wars
        
T-Mobile Tries to Counter the iPhone's Spread

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); SMARTPHONES (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%) Apple; AT&T; Google; iPhone; Siri; Sprint; verizon; Wireless Communications; AT&T Inc; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Verizon Communications Inc; AT&T Inc|T|NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE; Phones and Mobile Devices

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (92%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AT&T Inc; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); S (NYSE) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%) AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



172 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: The iPhone 4S Is as Much About Google as Apple

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Apple needed to compete with Android, so it now has phones that are free and phones that cost $400. 

 BODY:
Tuesday's iPhone unveiling didn't have as much to do with Apple as it did with Google. And in regards to Google, Tuesday's announcement was, to quote the rapper Diddy, "All about the Benjamins."
It's no secret that Google and Apple are currently embroiled in a smartphone war. According to the latest numbers by several research firms that track smartphone sales, twice as many Android devices are currently being activated each day as Apple devices. Analysts have repeatedly said that one of the main reasons people opt for Google's Android over Apple's iOS is the price of the phone.
"The Android phone is available on almost any carrier at almost any price," said Charles Golvin, an analyst for Forrester Research specializing in mobile technology. "And now the big growth in the smartphone space is not coming from people that need a new phone every three weeks. It's your brother or your cousin or your aunt."
This means that Apple needed to compete with Android in the same way.
To do this the company had to offer a high-end phone that is very Applesque, complete with the slickest new features and software: the iPhone 4S, which starts at $200 and goes as high as $400. In addition, the company needed to offer iPhones for the masses: the iPhone 3GS, which is now free. All of these prices are valid with a two-year contract with the carrier for wireless service.
The iPhone may have lacked a new design, but the broad pricing plan represented the first time Apple had used this strategy for its phones.
"Just like Apple built a product portfolio for the iPod that allowed anyone to get an iPod, no matter how much money they had, it's the same now, if you want an iPhone," Mr. Golvin said. "There's everything from the high-end version to the free one."
Apple has also streamlined the cost of building the iPhone.
The iPhone 4S uses a chip that will work globally across all carriers. This means Apple can manufacture a smartphone that will work on Sprint, Verizon and AT&T in the United States, and a long list of others abroad. This will bring huge savings to Apple, which in the end will help Apple compete with Google globally.

        
Many Smartphone Customers Are Still Up for Grabs
        
Android Pulls Ahead in Smartphone Race, Report Says
        
The Race to Dominate the Smartphone Market
        
Jobs Says Apple's Approach Is Better Than Google's
        
The iPhone Has a Real Fight on Its Hands

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); RAP MUSIC (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (69%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (66%) android; Apple; Google; iPhone; Android (Operating System); Smartphones; Apple Incorporated; Google Inc; Apple Incorporated|AAPL|NASDAQ; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Company News; Internet; Phones and Mobile Devices; Silicon Valley

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Incorporated; Google Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%) Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



173 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: A Strange Lesson From Renaissance Learning

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Why did the controlling family accept a lower offer? And why did the board not question that decision? 

 BODY:
Something weird is happening in Wisconsin. 
On Aug 15, Renaissance Learning agreed to be acquired by Permira for $14.85 a share. 
Then on Sept. 27, Renaissance announced that Permira had raised its offer. Public shareholders would receive $16.60 a share, while Terrance and Judith Paul, the co-founders and owners of 69 percent of Renaissance, would receive $15 a share. 
This was quite a munificent gesture by the Pauls. It is not uncommon for controlling shareholders to receive a premium for their shares. In this case, the Pauls inexplicably were agreeing to receive less so that public shareholders could receive a higher amount of consideration. 
The next day, part of the reason for their generosity became apparent. Renaissance disclosed that Plato Learning Inc., a company owned by the private equity firms Thoma Bravo and HarbourVest, had proposed to acquire the Pauls' shares for $15.10 a share and the public shareholders' shares for $18. 
It seems that the Pauls took less so that the public shareholders could get a higher amount to fend off a competing bid from Plato. It didn't work. 
It was at this point that things got weird. Renaissance announced that the Pauls had informed the Renaissance board that "they will not support an acquisition of Renaissance Learning by Plato Learning." Therefore, the Renaissance board would not consider the higher Plato bid. 
The Pauls have not disclosed any arrangements with Permira for the post-acquisition operation of the company. It thus appears that the Pauls are willfully forgoing the extra cash solely because they like Permira more. 
This makes no economic sense. And it is here that we have our puzzle. Why are the Pauls doing this? They have even agreed to vote their shares in order to push through the Permira bid.
Renaissance did not respond to a request to comment on the transaction. 
But in a proxy amendment filed by Renaissance on Monday, Renaissance offered the reasons the Pauls gave to the Renaissance board.
At a Sept. 27 board meeting, the Pauls stated that the Plato proposal would take longer to complete than the Permira one and would allegedly have more financing risk. The Pauls also stated that they thought the company may be taking on too much leverage if Plato bought the company and the Pauls would be at risk -- which they admitted was low -- of a lawsuit if the transaction subsequently failed. 
None of these reasons are particularly compelling. Things are volatile, but the risk of a financing failure or a delay in this instance are lessened by the fact that Plato is a real company with real assets. The fact that financing is being lined up in these circumstances also indicates that the failure risk is low. 
The Pauls rejection is arguably within their rights. Renaissance is incorporated in Wisconsin, and its law governs. In Wisconsin and Delaware, a controlling shareholder has the right to sell his or her shares. The controlling shareholder can both sell or refuse an offer to sell. In this case the Pauls would no doubt rely on this case law to argue that they are simply exercising their right to sell or not sell their shares as they wish. This is why the Renaissance news release was worded in the way it was and spoke about the Pauls' lack of support. 
But this case is slightly different. In this transaction, a sale process was already under way. At least one court applying Wisconsin law has rejected the Revlon doctrine that in Delaware would require the Renaissance board to obtain the highest price reasonably available when a chance of control occurs. 
Even if this were Delaware, though, Revlon duties would probably not apply. This is because there is no change of control occurring for purposes of the minority - the controlling interest is merely being passed to another controller. 
Still, the minority shareholders are exiting the enterprise. In Delaware, again, this would most likely not change the analysis, and the Pauls would be free to make their "charitable" decision. 
But there is some case law in Wisconsin that asserts that a controlling shareholder has fiduciary duties to its minority shareholders. It is not on point, but a court could decide to apply the case law to this situation and hold that these fiduciary duties require the Pauls to consider this higher bid.
This is particularly true since the Pauls appear to have no reason to support the lower Permira bid. It is a very uncertain prospect but certainly possible. 
Then there is the Renaissance board. 
No doubt the Renaissance directors are close to the Pauls, who selected them. The directors, however, have their own independent responsibilities to Renaissance and all of its shareholders. The board at least has a duty to inquire why this decision is being made.
More important, if it is without basis, the board can choose to play chicken with the Pauls and refuse to accept the lower Permira offer. 
This is complicated by Renaissance's already existing merger agreement with Permira. The board cannot willfully get out of the agreement at this time unless it declares the Plato bid superior and goes through the procedures outlined in the merger agreement. But then Renaissance would be entering into a deal with Plato that the Pauls oppose and would vote down. 
Given the hard choices, it would be a very unusual board that would do anything else but take the current deal. This does not make the Renaissance board's decision right, it just reflects the realities of the dynamics here.
In connection with Permira's latest increase, however, Permira agreed to indemnify the Pauls for any litigation arising from their subsequent rejection of another takeover proposal. 
Clearly, the specter of a Plato higher bid was on the table even before Plato made its latest bid. The Renaissance board still allowed this bizarre arrangement to proceed. 
Complicating the board's decision is Wisconsin's constituency statute. This statute allows the Renaissance board to consider factors other than the best interests of the shareholders in accepting a takeover bid. This includes: 
 - the effects of the action on employees, suppliers and customers of the corporation;
 - the effects of the action on communities in which the corporation operates; and
 - any other factors that the director or officer considers pertinent.
This statute was used by the Midwest Air Group to justify its rejection of a hostile Airtrans bid in 2006. 
It is a powerful device. The Renaissance board has not cited the statute in this case. The Pauls, however, did reference the interests of the Wisconsin Rapids community and other community interests as another reason for their rejection of the Plato bid. Again, the Pauls' charity is touching, but other than a bare recitation of the interests of the communities they provided no basis for this decision. 
Permira is a private equity firm. Plato is a company owned by two private equity firms. It is hard to see how Renaissance can justify preferring one bid over the other. 
Thus we are still left with a mystery. Why are the Pauls accepting a lower offer?
Plato was no doubt being cheeky in raising the offer for the Pauls' shares by only 10 cents, but the public shareholders' by $1.40. Plato most likely crystallized this issue intentionally. 
On Sept. 29, Plato sent a letter to the Renaissance board claiming that its acceptance of the lower bid was a breach of the Renaissance board's responsibility, and that the failure to disclose an alleged relationship between the Pauls and Permira violated federal securities laws. Since then Plato has been quiet. 
There is at least one shareholder lawsuit pending. The lawyers in this case may want to ask the hard questions of the Pauls that we are left to speculate about: Do you have any side-deal arrangement here that is not being disclosed? And if not, why are you doing this? More to the point, why are you deliberately depriving yourselves and other shareholders of millions of dollars.
As I said, weird.

        
Delaware Law Gives NYSE an Edge in Battle With Nasdaq
        
What Comes Next in the Battle for NYSE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); DIVESTITURES (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LITIGATION (60%) Delaware Case Law; HarbourVest Partners; Plato Learning; Renaissance Learning; Revlon; Terrance and Judith Paul; Thoma Bravo; Wisconsin; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Private Equity; Renaissance Learning Incorporated; Renaissance Learning Incorporated|RLRN|NASDAQ; Deal Professor; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: RENAISSANCE LEARNING INC (92%); PLATO LEARNING INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Renaissance Learning Incorporated

TICKER: Renaissance Learning Incorporated; RLRN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



174 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Investigates FEMA

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: The chairman of the House Appropriations Committee said the panel was investigating the emergency agency's last-minute decision to finish the fiscal year with no additional funds. 

 BODY:
The House Appropriations Committee is investigating the Federal Emergency Management Agency's last-minute decision to finish the 2011 fiscal year with no additional funds, the panel's chairman said on Tuesday.
The chairman, Representative Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky, said he wanted to know why the agency "suddenly, and I might add mysteriously, announced that these funds were no longer necessary" to assist victims of this summer's string of natural disasters.
Less than two weeks ago, the government was teetering on the brink of a shutdown as lawmakers struggled to agree over how to provide the emergency funds when FEMA abruptly announced that it did not need the additional money. Officials said the agency could finish the fiscal year (which ended Friday) with the $114 million it had on hand. Crisis averted, the Senate passed a resolution on Monday to keep the government operating through Nov. 18; the House approved the bill hours ago.
Mr. Rogers said it was "clear" that the agency would soon need the additional emergency funds to continue its recovery and relief efforts and added that he was "disappointed" that the agency "has apparently been playing games with the numbers."
"And my committee is closely examining why FEMA's estimates changed at the 11th hour," he said.
Republicans wanted to see the cost of additional disaster aid offset by cuts to an alternative energy program supported by Democrats, while Democrats countered that such a move would set a bad precedent.
Mr. Rogers suggested that the impasse over disaster aid had left disaster victims unprotected and undermined the recovery.
"We simply must not leave our citizens in the lurch, particularly as thousands of American families and communities continue to rebuild following devastating natural disasters across the country," he said. "Furthermore, our economy can't handle the instability that comes from the threat of a government shutdown."

        
Stop-Gap Bill Tied Up Over Disaster Aid Feud
        
Caucus Video: Perry's Challenges; Shutdown Looms Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (92%); APPROPRIATIONS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%) disaster relief; FEMA; Harold Rogers; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (94%)

PERSON: HAROLD ROGERS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



175 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Another View: Bernanke Ups the Ante

BYLINE: MARK SPITZNAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: A hedge fund manager explains how his poker skills help him understand the market risks in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. 

 BODY:
With Federal Reserve's continued monetary easing through so-called Operation Twist, which is intended to lower interest rates further out the yield curve, it is good to reconsider its intended impact on risk-taking and expected returns. Moreover, why should we expect ever-lower interest rates to keep people broadly invested in American equity markets -- the stated monetary policy raison d'etre of the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, thanks to his presumed wealth effect - despite the only statistically significant aggregate market valuation indicators (such as the Q ratio and the 10-year price/earnings ratio) still pointing to low single-digit equity market returns and likely deep draw-downs of cash over the next decade or so?
Over the years, I have received much needed investment insight from the game of poker. I find it particularly useful in exploring the answer to the question at hand.
Poker and investing are both about weighing the likelihood of different potential future payoffs against the current cost of receiving that future payoff, that is, the probabilistic expectation of a risky bet. (Incidentally, I have tended to find much higher probabilistic expectations in investing than I have in poker - surprising for where I reside.)
Success in both investing and poker can be had through discriminating risk-taking, patiently betting only when payoffs are large relative to the likely superiority of one's card hands (tight play), as well as patiently investing only when asset prices are cheap relative to their likely superior intrinsic values (value investing). But success can also be often achieved through indiscriminate risk-taking, betting with the hopes that other players will agree on one's presumed superior card hands (loose play), as well as investing in assets with the hopes that other investors will agree on their eventual superior intrinsic values (momentum investing).
There is a mechanism in the rules of both poker and investing that regulates much of these two approaches.
In poker, this is known as the ante, which is an initial bet required of all players before the game even begins. Antes exist specifically to discourage inactivity (particularly among those with less-than-stellar hands) by immediately establishing a high reward for the winner and essentially charging a fee for the tight player's patient folding. They are the very grease that keeps the gambling wheels spinning; in the extreme, however, these wheels start to come off.
As antes become high relative to betting limits, the players' estimations of their mathematical likelihoods of having the winning hand become increasingly irrelevant, and their rational, optimal strategy becomes to bet indiscriminately - that is, to play increasingly loose. By definition, when everyone plays every random hand, victory becomes a matter of luck. So there is a clear meta-optimal strategy to high-ante games, and that is to not even show up for the game.
A similar mechanism to encourage risk-taking is at work in the financial markets, where in place of ante manipulation is Mr. Bernanke's interest-rate manipulation. Risk-free interest rates are an important opportunity cost to risky investment. They help support the return expectations of risky assets at levels sufficient to attract capital away from risk-free investment. When risk-free rates are artificially set to zero by the Fed through monetary easing, all risk-free coupons are effectively seized from their owners' hands, like the antes from the poker players' hands. 
Risky investing automatically provides an even higher payout relative to the cost of idleness. This, of course, makes everyone invest more aggressively, "reaching for yield," as underlying mathematical value becomes less relevant, thus further increasing their expectation of further investing. In essence, they become momentum investors. That, in turn, immediately and indiscriminately pushes up the prices of assets and their risks of loss (as well as certainly their correlations with each other) and drives down their long-term expected returns (commensurate with their new premium to their original and little-changed mathematical value).
In both poker and the financial markets, tweaking the rules in hopes of creating more speculative action through the illusion of enticingly higher payoffs paradoxically and subtly creates very unenticing, yet very risky, payoffs in the end. A game of profound skill where the best play wins in the long run is distorted into a degenerate game of pure coin-flipping luck.
In the words of the singer and songwriter Leonard Cohen, "You hate to watch another tired man lay down his hand like he was giving up the holy game of poker."
Yet, in both poker games and financial markets distorted by the manipulation of antes and interest rates, respectively, this makes sense. Current valuations indicate that Mr. Bernanke's continuing monetary policy is fooling investors into taking enormous risk for no expected return, or close to it. Perhaps investors should heed the poker player in similar circumstances, who would instead choose a guaranteed zero return, saving his chips for another day, for another chance to play the holy game - but with fairer rules where the value of the hand truly justifies the risk and reward.

        
Viewpoints: Bernanke's Only Choice?
        
Fed Official Warns of a Cycle of Boom and Bust

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); POKER (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); YIELD CURVE (78%); CARD GAMES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%) Ben Bernanke; Ben S. Bernanke; Federal Reserve; Monetary Policy; Operation Twist; Quantitative Easing; Bernanke, Ben S; Interest Rates; Poker (Card Game); United States Economy; Federal Reserve System; Another View; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



176 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Exit Christie

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: An understandable decision adds to an institutional failure. 

 BODY:
Though I urged the New Jersey governor to consider running for president and liked his chances if he did, I can understand why Chris Christie has decided against a bid. The hour is late, the hurdles are significant, and if his candidacy crashed and burned Christie would have probably thrown away his still-young political career - and with it, his ability to fundamentally reform a long-misgoverned state. As Reihan Salam put it the other day, "New Jersey needs its governor," and a Republican Party that believes in the importance of federalism shouldn't necessarily be in the business of promoting its most successful state officials to the national level before their statehouse work has come to fruition. (See Palin, Sarah, for a cautionary tale on that front.)
But if New Jersey needs a governor, the United States definitely needs a president - or at least the very least, a viable alternative to President Obama in the 2012 campaign. My Sunday column dealt with conservative populism's failure to produce a credible standard bearer for the G.O.P., but with the end of the Christie romance it's worth pausing to consider the failures of the Republican establishment as well. From Jeb Bush to Haley Barbour, Jon Thune to (especially) Mitch Daniels, we've watched the party's leading lights and most experienced national figures repeatedly pass the buck, all of them hoping that somebody would step forward to supply a credible alternative to Mitt Romney. Individually, their choices were understandable; collectively, they have represented a significant institutional failure - even a generational failure, you might say, which left conservatives scrambling to promote the next generation (Christie, Paul Ryan) ahead of schedule.
Yes, Romney has his strengths, and yes, there's probably still time for Rick Perry to rebound from his awful start. But it's still dispiriting that a time of global economic crisis and national paralysis, the Republican Party is putting forward a primary field that's considerably weaker than either the Republican or the Democratic fields of 2007-2008.

        
The Rick Perry Experiment
        
Don't Panic, Mitt Romney!
        
Charisma and Chris Christie
        
Rick Perry as Howard Dean
        
The Huntsman Gambit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%) 2012; Chris Christie; Mitt Romney; Republicans; Rick Perry; the horse race

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



177 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Some Loans Go Bad; Others Just Fade Away

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Loan guarantees have been far harder to arrange for nuclear plants than for solar projects because the nuclear borrower has to pay the government's risk-compensation fee. 

 BODY:
As my colleague Eric Lipton and I report in Tuesday's paper, the Obama administration was divided early on over the loan guarantee to Solyndra, the solar equipment manufacturer that took $528 million in federal money before it filed for bankruptcy in September.
But the Solyndra loan was hardly the first occasion for recent conflict between two wings of the administration, the White House Office of Management and Budget and the Energy Department. Another divide persisted through most of 2009 and 2010 over loan guarantees for new nuclear reactors.
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 provided loan guarantees of up to $18.5 billion for new reactor construction, but only one reactor project, in Georgia, has won the promise of a guarantee. That is partly because of a difference in the loan programs.
For both programs, the Office of Management and Budget calculates a fee that the government must be paid to compensate it for taking the risk on a loan. For nuclear plants, the borrower must pay that fee. But for wind and solar plants, Congress appropriated money for that purpose, so the government essentially pays itself.

For the nuclear loans, the Office of Management and Budget has been asking for fees that industry executives say are unreasonably high.
In October 2010, after months of negotiations, Constellation Energy of Baltimore threw up its hands and walked away from its proposed third reactor at Calvert Cliffs, about 50 miles south of Washington, because the Office of Management and Budget was demanding a fee of $880 million in exchange for the government's bearing the risk of default on a $7.6 billion loan.
One loan guarantee was promised, for a twin-reactor project in Georgia, butanother project in South Carolinahas been proceeding without loan guarantees, apparently because the builders say they believe they may get just as good a deal from the private sector.
Nuclear industry executives characterize the Energy Department as ready to issue loans, but the Office of Management and Budget is taking a much more cautious approach.
As a result, most of the $18.5 billion loan guarantee fund has gone unused.
Because the borrower does not pay the risk-compensation fee for alternative energy projects, that certainly makes such loans easier to get, even for companies that may not turn out to be creditworthy.
Some parties have argued that the government has proceeded too slowly on nuclear loans and renewable energy loans. But lately the argument has mainly been that the government moved too fast.
Either way, nearly all renewable energy businesses took loans if they were offered; that has not been possible on the nuclear side.

        
In the Green Race, the U.S. as Also-Ran
        
Parsing Myth and Reality on Solyndra
        
Staying the Course, Post-Fukushima
        
For Energy-Starved India, Japan's Crisis Raises Hard Questions
        
Solar, Wind, and Nuclear: South Africa's New Electricity Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); SOLAR ENERGY (92%); BUDGETS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (75%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (72%) constellation energy; loan guarantees; Nuclear Energy; nuclear reactors; renewable energy; Solyndra; Obama, Barack; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Bankruptcies; Budgets and Budgeting; Energy and Power; Federal Aid (US); Federal Budget (US); Guarantees and Warranties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Constellation Energy Group Inc; Energy Department; Office of Management and Budget (US); Solyndra Inc; Baltimore (Md); Georgia; South Carolina; Constellation Energy Group Inc|CEG|NYSE; Alternative Energy; Business; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (94%) Constellation Energy Group Inc; Energy Department; Office of Management and Budget (US); Solyndra Inc

TICKER: Constellation Energy Group Inc; CEG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (86%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (86%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) Baltimore (Md); Georgia; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



178 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Christie Decides Against Presidential Bid

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The New Jersey governor has decided not to run for president, citing his commitment to "fix a broken New Jersey" first. 

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has decided not to seek the presidency, citing a promise he made to his state's voters when he took office 20 months ago to "fix a broken New Jersey." The decision ends a late flurry of indecision on the part of Mr. Christie, who had been encouraged by a growing number of Republican donors and activists who hoped he join the field of candidates vying to challenge President Obama. Read (and comment on) the full story on The Caucus.

        
U.S. Declares Major Disaster in Areas of New York
        
Before 9/11 Ceremony, Back-Room Maneuvers
        
Old Lesson for New, Tough-Talking Governors: 'It's the Economy ...'
        
Talk of President Cuomo? 2016 Is a Long Way Off
        
Obama Suggests That Weiner Step Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%) candidates; Gov. Chris Christie; President Obama; Christie, Christopher J; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; New Jersey; Government & Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Christie, Christopher J; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



179 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Waning

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
America's budget crisis is forcing the first significant cuts in overseas aid in nearly two decades, threatening to undermine an aspect of the administration's foreign policy that emphasizes diplomacy and development as a complement to American military power, Steven Lee Myers reports.

        
Newly disclosed e-mail warnings from inside the White House show just how worried senior administration officials were about the $528 million loan to Solyndra, saying it could prove a major embarrassment for President Obama, Eric Lipton and Matt Wald report.

        
Investigators from the Government Accountability Office report that Medicare is subsidizing drug abusefor thousands of beneficiaries who shop around for doctors and fill prescriptions for huge quantities of painkillers and narcotics. Evidence of Medicare officials' failure to act on the abuse will be presented in a Senate hearing on Tuesday, Robert Pear writes.

        
The Obama administration sent Congress trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama on Monday, saying the pacts would help accelerate economic growth, Binyamin Appelbaum reports. The administration's action comes after a months-long standoff with House Republicans over benefits for displaced workers.

        
South Carolina moved its Republican primary up to Jan. 21, increasing the pressure on Gov. Chris Christieof New Jersey to make a decision about running for president, Michael D. Shear and Jeff Zeleny report. His advisers have asked supporters to wait until at least Wednesday before finding another candidate.
Around the Web

        
The targeted killing of an American-born Al Qaeda leader might be grounds for a presidential impeachment, said Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas. The comments are another example of his nontraditional view of Republican foreign policy, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
The president and vice president will both depart Washington for campaign events and speaking engagements to solicit more voter support for the American Jobs Act.

        
Back in Washington, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will meet privately with Senator Daniel Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, on Capitol Hill.

        
The Early Word: Listed
        
The Early Word: Deal
        
The Weekend Word: Sequel
        
The Early Word: Change
        
The Early Word: Combative

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); DANIEL INOUYE (57%); RON PAUL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



180 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Romney Plans Foreign Policy Speech

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: On the campaign trail, Mitt Romney has talked about the need for a strong America, and it is a theme he said he would address in his speech on Friday in Charleston, S.C. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney will deliver a foreign policy speech on Friday in Charleston, S.C., he announced Monday afternoon on Sean Hannity's radio show.
Mr. Romney was vague on details - when Mr. Hannity asked him what time his speech would take place, he laughed and said he did not have his calendar in front of him - but he promised "a very different vision" than that of President Obama.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Romney has talked about the need for a strong America, and it is a theme he said he would address in his speech at The Citadel.
During the summer, Mr. Romney promised to roll out his policy proposals this fall, and this foreign policy speech is his second major policy address. In early September, he unveiled his economic plan in Nevada.
A Romney spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said the speech will offer a strategy for securing America's enduring interests and ideals in a world of growing threats and will discuss specific ways to enact the strategy. 
"It is a strategy that does not assume American decline,but recognizes that American strength -- in our values, economic strength, and military strength -- is the best ally peace has ever known" Ms. Saul said, "This is a strategy of American leadership, one in which our ties with our allies are strong and our policies clear and resolute." 

        
Huckabee to Interview Romney on His Show
        
No Surprise Here, Romney Wins Michigan Straw Poll
        
Romney Plays Up His Michigan Roots
        
For Romney and Perry, a Day on the Island
        
Romney Recruits Congressional Republicans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%) mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; speeches; Romney, Mitt; Speeches and Statements; United States International Relations; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



181 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Wins West Virginia Governor's Race

BYLINE: SABRINA TAVERNISE


HIGHLIGHT: The race was being closely watched as an indicator of voter mood ahead of the 2012 presidential election. 

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, W.Va. - Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin, a Democrat, narrowly won a special election for governor on Tuesday, successfully defending himself against Republican attacks that tried to link him with
President Obama and his health care overhaul.
With about 94 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Tomblin led his Republican opponent, Bill Maloney, by about 3 percentage points, according to the Web site of the West Virginia Secretary of State.
It was a slim victory in a hard-fought race that was seen as a test for Democrats. Mr. Maloney, a businessman, was initially viewed as a long-shot in this heavily Democratic state, but he surged ahead in the polls in recent weeks with the help of negative advertisements associating Mr. Tomblin with Mr. Obama, who is deeply unpopular here. Mr. Tomblin's campaign also ran negative ads.
The election was unusual. It was ordered by the State Supreme Court after
Joe Manchin III vacated the governor's office when he won a Senate seat last year. Mr. Tomblin, then the president of the State Senate, filled the vacancy as required by the State Constitution. He will now hold the office for just 14 months, until another election is held in November 2012.
West Virginia tends to vote for Republicans in presidential elections and for Democrats in local and state races.
Robert C. Byrd, a Democratic senator who died last year and whose seat Mr. Manchin now occupies, was the state's longest-serving public official. The state has voted for Republican candidates in the last three presidential elections, but has had only three Republican governors since the late 1960s.
For months, Mr. Tomblin appeared to have the advantage. His conservative credentials seemed to appeal to Democrats, and endorsements were heaped upon him, including from the National Rifle Association, the West Virginia Coal Association and the Chamber of Commerce. He has continued a lawsuit filed by Mr. Manchin against the Environmental Protection Agency.
"You're not going to mistake him for
Barney Frank," said Neil Berch, an associate professor of political science at West Virginia University, referring to the liberal Democratic congressman from Massachusetts.
But the country's mood toward incumbents has soured, helping to lift Mr. Maloney's campaign and presenting a formidable challenge to Mr. Tomblin, who struggled to maintain his advantage.
Mr. Obama was another liability, and Mr. Tomblin worked hard to distance himself. The Republican Governors Association ran the ad linking him to Mr. Obama's health care law, but that effort appeared to have fallen flat.
Mr. Maloney emphasized the fact that he was not a career politician. He pointed to West Virginia's low economic rankings - 49th in the nation in per capita income and dead last in labor force participation - as evidence that the records of long-serving Democratic political leaders are weak.
But national politics may have hurt Mr. Maloney too. The Republican plan to overhaul Medicare seemed to be still resonating here, with many voters viewing it unfavorably.
Kathy Jackson, a retired janitor, said she would cast her vote for the Democratic candidate because she did not trust Mr. Maloney.
"I heard on TV that he wanted to take away Medicare," she said, sitting in a wheelchair in a McDonald's restaurant in Charleston.
Turnout for the election was a meager 20 percent in Kanawha County, where Charleston is located, and many people interviewed here said they were sick of both political parties and had not bothered to vote.
"No one talks about the real issues that affect our lives," said one woman who did not vote. "There's a real disconnect. You get no information. Just sound bites."
H. Ray Evans, a retired journalist, said he voted for Bob Henry Baber, the Mountain Party candidate, not because he liked him, but because he could not bring himself to vote for the others.
Mr. Maloney "is just some dude who drilled oil wells, made a lot of money and decided he wanted to be governor," said Mr. Evans, reading a book outside a cafe in downtown Charleston.
"I'm so sick of Republicans and Democrats being in the pockets of the energy industry," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); WEB SITES (56%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%) Obama, Barack; Tomblin, Earl Ray; Elections; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2012; West Virginia; The Caucus

PERSON: EARL RAY TOMBLIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE MANCHIN (78%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%) Obama, Barack; Tomblin, Earl Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (92%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



182 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Obama, in Texas, Pushes Jobs Bill

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Speaking in the Lone Star State, the president delivers a message that he hopes will be heard on Capitol Hill. 

 BODY:
 DALLAS -- President Obama on Tuesday campaigned for his jobs bill and collected political contributions in the home state of Gov. Rick Perry and the Congressional district of a Republican House leader, and he did not shy away from telling affluent donors that they and the state's oil companies should pay more in taxes for the nation's good. 
 At two luncheon fund-raisers and then at a community college, Mr. Obama was unbowed in continuing to challenge Congress to "pass this bill," even though the Senate Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, that morning had moved to call his bluff by demanding that the Senate Democratic majority leader, Harry Reid, bring the measure to an immediate vote.
 Mr. Reid refused, dismissing Mr. McConnell's move as a "political stunt" and saying the Senate would first finish with bills to pressure China to devalue its currents and to approve three free-trade agreements.
 Mr. Obama did not mention the Senate back-and-forth but almost shouted into the microphone at Eastfield College in Mesquite, just east of Dallas, as if he were speaking to the Congressional leadership: "The time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now."
 He said Republicans would resist his plans "if I took their party platform and proposed it" because they say they do not want to give him a win. "Give me a win? Give me a break," Mr. Obama added, bringing the enthusiastic and diverse crowd of more than 1,000 to its feet. "This is not about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. This is about giving people who are hurting a win. This is about giving small-business owners a win, and entrepreneurs a win, and students a win, and working families a win. This is about giving America a win."
 The trip was the latest example of the president's new strategy of confronting Republicans directly after nearly a year in which they have blocked his efforts to raise more revenues from the wealthy and corporations, both to reduce long-term deficits and, in the short term, to offset the cost of additional spending and tax cuts to spur the economy.
 Mr. Obama did not mention either Mr. Perry or Representative Jeb Hensarling, a conservative House leader who represents Mesquite. But he recalled that he recently traveled to an aging bridge connecting Ohio, the state of Speaker John A. Boehner, a Republican, to Kentucky, Mr. McConnell's state, to underscore the need for the sort of job-creating repairs of the nation's bridges, roads and schools, including Eastfield College. 
 And Mr. Obama notably singled out the House majority leader, Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, for saying on Monday that he would not bring the president's job-creation package to a vote -- eliciting boos from the audience.
"Do they not have the time? They just took the week off," Mr. Obama said mockingly. He challenged Mr. Cantor to come to Dallas and explain his opposition, including to the laid-off elementary school teacher, Kim Russell, who introduced Mr. Obama at the college. "Tell her why she doesn't deserve to be back in the classroom doing what she loves, helping our kids," he said.
 Republicans oppose Mr. Obama's package mainly because he would pay for it by raising taxes on high-income taxpayers and oil companies, and they oppose new stimulus spending. The president's $447 billion plan would extend payroll tax cuts for all workers and also cut them for employers and provide additional spending for infrastructure and for strapped states to keep teachers, police officers and firefighters on the job. Money in past stimulus measures for those purposes has been exhausted, but unemployment remains at 9 percent.

        
Obama Says He's the Underdog in 2012
        
Supreme Court Ruling Could Revive Health Care for 2012 Campaign
        
Palin 'on the Verge' of a Decision About Presidential Run
        
2012 Could Be Tiebreaker of Last 2 Cycles
        
Calls for Shakeup in White House That Prizes Constancy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); FAMILY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%) jobs bill; president obama; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICK PERRY (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); HARRY REID (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



183 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: More Solyndra E-mails, and Warnings

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Talking points from a public relations firm offered a glowing picture of the future. Others, inside and outside the government, disagreed. 

 BODY:
 The Solyndra e-mails that House Democrats used to write the memo they released on Monday, in an effort to refute the idea that political favoritism was in play, are now posted on their Energy and Commerce Web site, and they have a few more nuggets about the company.
 Solyndra got $528 million in loans from the Treasury and then declared bankruptcy. House Republicans stress that one investor in the company -George B. Kaiser, a billionaire from Tulsa, Okla. - was a bundler for the Obama campaign.
 Perhaps most stunning at this late date is the list of talking points from the Glover Park Group, a public relations firm representing Solyndra, about forecasts for the second half of 2011 and beyond. "We will have a clear path to turn cash flow positive on $400 million in annual revenue by the 2H 2011, through a combination of lower costs, expanded production and increased sales," said the head of the account in one e-mail to two subordinates. He added that by 2012 they would have a product "making us highly competitive with all other solar companies on the rooftop." 
 In fact, the company ended up with a high-priced product it could not sell.
 The e-mails make clear the division of opinion between the Office of Management and Budget and the Energy Department about the loan program.
 An official of the Office of Management and Budget, whom the Democrats quoted in their memo as fretting that "I am increasingly worried that this visit could prove embarrassing to the Administration in the not too distant future," also points out that Solyndra told the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had received $140.9 million in loans, at a time when the Energy Department was saying it was $25 million. "Perhaps they meant 25 percent," said the O.M.B. official, whose name was blacked out when the document was released. 
 Brad Jones, a founding partner of an investment fund that put money into Solyndra, in an e-mail exchange with Lawrence H. Summers, then a top economic adviser to President Obama, observed, "Every administration seems to feel like it knows better than the private markets how to allocate capital, and I've just never seen that to be true.''
 Ronald A. Klain, the chief of staff for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and a backer of the loan, told Valerie Jarrett, a presidential adviser, in a May 24, 2010, e-mail, "they are burning capital, perhaps a bit fast, and are dependent on a break or two to be viable outside of the 18-24 month window." 
 Matt Rogers, a special adviser to the energy secretary for Recovery Act implementation, tells colleagues in another e-mail not to worry about an accountant's opinion that the company may not survive, because such opinions are "standard for companies pre-IPO," that is, before their initial public stock offerings. But he noted, in an e-mail on May 24, 2010, that the price of competing solar panels had fallen as the price of a crucial ingredient, silicon, had fallen, and that the market for such panels was dropping because of economic problems in Spain. 
 Those were two of the major reasons cited for the bankruptcy after it occurred, 15 months after the e-mail. 
 "The good news," Mr. Rogers wrote, "is that the loans that we made are allowing the company to increase revenues and reduce production costs significantly, helping them remain competitive in a tough market. If Europe goes south and we don't see an energy bill here, they will face issues in the 18-24 month window, but the company should be strong going into the fall with their new facilities on line." 

        
Caucus Video: Politics of Obama's Deficit Proposal, The Latest on Solyndra
        
Solar Loan Gets 'Daily Show' Treatment
        
New Budget Director Confirmed
        
Landrieu to Block O.M.B. Nominee
        
Social-Media, Not Social-ism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CASH FLOW (69%) Energy Department; office of management and budget; solyndra; The Caucus

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (58%); RON KLAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



184 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Misrepresentations, Regulations and Jobs

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans are using the nation's economic problems as an excuse to pursue the business agenda of eliminating regulation, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Republicans have a problem. People are increasingly concerned about unemployment, but Republicans have nothing to offer them. The G.O.P. opposes additional government spending for jobs programs and, in fact, favors big cuts in spending that would be likely to lead to further layoffs at all levels of government. 
Republicans favor tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations, but these had no stimulative effect during the George W. Bush administration and there is no reason to believe that more of them will have any today. And the Republicans' oft-stated concern for the deficit makes tax cuts a hard sell.
These constraints have led Republicans to embrace the idea that government regulation is the principal factor holding back employment. They assert that Barack Obama has unleashed a tidal wave of new regulations, which has created uncertainty among businesses and prevents them from investing and hiring. 
No hard evidence is offered for this claim; it is simply asserted as self-evident and repeated endlessly throughout the conservative echo chamber.

On Aug. 29, the House majority leader, Eric Cantor of Virginia, sent a memorandum to members of the House Republican Conference, telling them to make the repeal of job-destroying regulations the key point in the Republican jobs agenda. 
"By pursuing a steady repeal of job-destroying regulations, we can help lift the cloud of uncertainty hanging over small and large employers alike, empowering them to hire more workers," Mr. Cantor said.
Evidence supporting Mr. Cantor's contention that deregulation would increase unemployment is very weak. For some years, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has had a program that tracks mass layoffs. In 2007, the program was expanded, and businesses were asked their reasons for laying off workers. Among the reasons offered was "government regulations/intervention." There is only partial data for 2007, but we have data since then through the second quarter of this year.
The table below presents the bureau's data. As one can see, the number of layoffs nationwide caused by government regulation is minuscule and shows no evidence of getting worse during the Obama administration. Lack of demand for business products and services is vastly more important.
These results are supported by surveys. During June and July, Small Business Majority asked 1,257 small-business owners to name the two biggest problems they face. Only 13 percent listed government regulation as one of them. Almost half said their biggest problem was uncertainty about the future course of the economy - another way of saying a lack of customers and sales.
The Wall Street Journal's July survey of business economists found, "The main reason U.S. companies are reluctant to step up hiring is scant demand, rather than uncertainty over government policies, according to a majority of economists." 
In August, McClatchy Newspapers canvassed small businesses, asking them if regulation was a big problem. It could find no evidence that this was the case. 
"None of the business owners complained about regulation in their particular industries, and most seemed to welcome it," McClatchy reported. "Some pointed to the lack of regulation in mortgage lending as a principal cause of the financial crisis that brought about the Great Recession of 2007-9 and its grim aftermath."
The latest monthly survey of its members by the National Federation of Independent Business shows that poor sales are far and away their biggest problem. While concerns about regulation have risen during the Obama administration, they are about the same now as they were during Ronald Reagan's administration, according to an analysis of the federation's data by the Economic Policy Institute.
Academic research has also failed to find evidence that regulation is a significant factor in unemployment. In a blog post on Sept. 5, Jay Livingston, a sociologist at Montclair State University, hypothesized that if regulation were a major problem it would show up in the unemployment rates of industries where regulation has been increasing: the financial sector, medical care and mining/fuel extraction. He found that unemployment rates in these sectors were actually well below the national average. Unemployment is much higher in those industries that one would expect to suffer most from a lack of aggregate demand: construction, leisure and hospitality, business services, wholesale and retail trade, and durable goods.
Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings Institution, asserts that if businesses were really concerned about rising regulations, they would be investing now to avoid them. But there is no indication that this is the case. "The real reason for anemic investment and hiring is that businesses are not confident there will be enough potential customers to justify expansion or even routine capital replacement right now," he says.
In my opinion, regulatory uncertainty is a canard invented by Republicans that allows them to use current economic problems to pursue an agenda supported by the business community year in and year out. In other words, it is a simple case of political opportunism, not a serious effort to deal with high unemployment.

        
Are We About to Repeat the Mistakes of 1937?
        
I'd Rather Be an Unlucky Ducky
        
The Biggest Challenge for Today's Tax Reformers
        
The Case Against a Payroll Tax Cut
        
Are the Bush Tax Cuts the Root of Our Fiscal Problem?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); CONSERVATISM (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (69%) Bruce Bartlett; Daily Economist; demand; economic stimulus; employment; layoffs; politics; tax cuts; Taxation; Unemployment; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; United States Politics and Government; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011



185 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: 'Now Is Not My Time' to Run, Christie Says

BYLINE: DAVID M. HALBFINGER AND MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Chris Christie has decided not to run for the White House, despite increasing pressure to join the field. 

 BODY:
1:30 p.m. | Updated Saying "now is not my time," Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey announced on Tuesday that he would not seek the Republican nomination for the presidency.
Mr. Christie said he had taken to heart the appeals of influential Republicans and ordinary Americans to reconsider an 11th-hour campaign. But after only 20 months on the job as governor, he said he had "a commitment to New Jersey that I simply will not abandon."
"So, New Jersey," he added, "whether you like it or not, you're stuck with me."
The decision ended a late flurry of political ruminating by Mr. Christie on his national ambitions, and dashed the hopes of Republican activists, pundits and donors who had hoped he would add his name to the field of candidates vying to challenge President Obama.
But Mr. Christie, who was elected governor in 2009, has long said that he did not feel ready to pursue the presidency. At one point, he joked that he would have to commit suicide to convince people he was not running.
In a nationally televised news conference at the State House in Trenton, Mr. Christie said he had never really changed his mind. "For me the answer was never anything but no," he said. "My job here in New Jersey was always my passion."
With Mr. Christie out, attention will quickly turn back to the rivalry between Mitt Romney and Rick Perry for the Republican nomination. Polls suggest that Mr. Perry's support has dropped significantly after recent problems on the campaign trail and in debates.
Mr. Romney, meanwhile, continues to have difficulty earning the support of Tea Party advocates and other conservatives in the Republican Party.
The pressure on Mr. Christie to run reflected in part the unease among some in the Republican Party that they do not have a candidate who can beat Mr. Obama in the fall. Those urging him to run said they believed his tough-talking style and blunt approach to governing would contrast well with the president.
Among Mr. Christie's inner circle, one of the strongest arguments for mounting a run now was a concern that, if he did not, another Republican could well defeat Mr. Obama, thereby foreclosing a 2016 campaign for Mr. Christie. But people who have spoken to Mr. Christie in recent days said that apart from such calculations, he had not become any more eager to run for the presidency this year.
Indeed, at a forum last week, he spoke with distaste of the prospect of finding himself "in a hotel room in Des Moines and its 5:30 in the morning, and it's 15 below, and it's time for me to get up and go shake hands at the meatpacking plant."
Mr. Christie's moderate views on gun control, climate change and immigration would likely have been issues for him in the primary campaign, especially in places where conservatives make up a large share of the voters.
His decision comes in the wake of a new poll showing that a broad majority of voters do not yet have an opinion of him. And the poll, by CBS News and conducted before Mr. Christie announced his decision, found that just one-third of Republican primary voters said they wanted him to throw his hat in the ring.
Seven in 10 voters over all and 63 percent of voters who say they intend to vote in a Republican primary next year were either undecided or did not have an opinion of Mr. Christie. Twenty-nine percent of Republican voters had a favorable opinion of Mr. Christie and just 9 percent had an unfavorable opinion.
While 32 percent of Republican primary voters would like to see Mr. Christie run for president, 38 percent say they would not, and 30 percent do not yet have an opinion.
A new ABC News/Washington Post poll found higher support for a Christie run, at 42 percent, but the question was asked of all Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and not only Republican primary voters as in the CBS News poll. In the ABC News poll, 34 percent did not support his candidacy, and 24 percent had no opinion.
Mr. Christie's decision drew scorn from some of the Democrats he has tangled with in his state.
"The governor clearly understood that he cannot run for president when his own house isn't in order," Barbara Buono, the Senate majority leader, said. "Unemployment is 9.4 percent -- higher than the national average. Property taxes have increased since he took office. He has a budget deficit of almost $8 billion."
"Not the best record on which to base a presidential campaign," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); SUICIDE (52%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%) Christie, Christopher J; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; ABC News; CBS News; Republican Party; New Jersey; Polling

ORGANIZATION: ABC News; CBS News; Republican Party

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%) Christie, Christopher J; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011



186 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Facing Backlash, Syria Revokes Week-Old Ban on Imports of Consumer Goods

BYLINE: By NADA BAKRI; Anthony Shadid contributed reporting from Beirut, and Neil MacFarquhar from the United Nations.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- The Syrian government on Tuesday revoked a recent decision to ban imports of most consumer goods, a move that had sent prices soaring and provoked outrage among a business elite that has until now backed the leadership of President Bashar al-Assad in his nearly seven-month contest with anti-government activists.
The revocation was just one in a string of developments on a tumultuous day for Syria. The United Nations Security Council voted Tuesday on a resolution calling for an end to violence there and suggesting the possibility of sanctions; the resolution failed after Russia and China vetoed it. 
Meanwhile, Turkey said it would begin military maneuvers along its border with Syria this week. Though previously announced, the location of the exercise near the border seemed a move by an increasingly assertive Turkey to bring more pressure on Damascus.
''Now they're really banging the gavel,'' an Obama administration official said of the Turkish announcement. ''They're suddenly moving very fast.''
Analysts said that the ban imposed last week on imported merchandise, which included cars, household appliances and even food items, underscored a deep sense of anxiety among the authorities as Syria faces some of its most dangerous political unrest in four decades of dictatorship. Officials said it was needed to protect foreign currency reserves.
Analysts said the ban had been ordered without any study of the potential effects on the Syrian market or on Syria's trade agreements with neighboring countries. Some economists in Syria said the import ban and its reversal were indicators that the Syrian leadership remained uncertain in the face of the uprising and its ramifications for the Syrian economy.
''The ruling caused a domestic uproar that was very important,'' said Nabil Sukkar, a former senior economist at the World Bank who now leads the Syrian Consulting Bureau for Development and Investment, based in Damascus. ''They realized that they can't do that because it will lead to soaring prices, smuggling, unemployment and harm the credibility of the reforms.''
The United States and the European Union have imposed strict economic sanctions on Syria, including an embargo on its crude oil, over its brutal crackdown on pro-democracy protests, in which 2,700 people have been killed, according to the United Nations.
The uprising, which started in mid-March, has devastated Syria's economy. The International Monetary Fund predicted that growth might shrink by 2 percent this year, given a decline in investment and losses in tourism which, with oil, provide Syria with much of its foreign currency.
''There is no work, no customers,'' said a salesman at an art gallery in Bab Touma, a Christian neighborhood in Damascus. ''It has been a really bad season.''
Analysts said the Syrian government would now take other steps to protect its foreign reserves, which Finance Minister Mohammad al-Jleilati recently estimated at $18 billion -- enough to cover the country's imports for two years. Some economists dismissed that figure as inflated.
It was not immediately clear why Syria would impose such a ban if it had two years' worth of reserves on hand. The measure was announced by the economy minister, Mohammad Nidal al-Shaar, on Sept. 26. He said that it was temporary and precautionary, but that it was necessary to protect foreign currency reserves, a main indicator of the government's stability.
The Obama administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity following diplomatic protocol, contended that despite the reversal, ''the damage has already been done.'' The official said inflation had tripled and smuggling had surged since the decision was made, unsettling the business elite in Syria, which has largely sided with the government.
The ''well-to-do are completely dismayed with Assad,'' the American official said. ''They don't think he knows what he's doing. Inflation has gone up. He can't fix it.''
Turkey remains a wild card in the developments in Syria. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, once one of Mr. Assad's closest allies, has said he will no longer communicate with the Syrian president, after Mr. Assad repeatedly misled Mr. Erdogan and other Turkish officials about his intentions. Turkish officials have said they will impose sanctions soon, possibly by this week, potentially deepening Syria's economic woes. Particularly in Aleppo, near the Turkish border, Turkey has fostered economic ties.
At the Security Council, nine nations, including the United States and its Western allies, voted for the measure condemning Syria, while Brazil, India, South Africa and Lebanon abstained. Russia, whose main ally in the Middle East is Syria, had said that it would not accept a resolution that included even a hint of sanctions.
The American ambassador, Susan E. Rice, accused opponents of the resolution of seeking to continue arms sales to Syria. ''During this season of change, the people of the Middle East can now see clearly which nations have chosen to ignore their calls for democracy and instead prop up desperate, cruel dictators,'' Ms. Rice said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VETO (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); SMUGGLING (74%); CURRENCIES (70%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) SYRIA (98%); TURKEY (93%); LEBANON (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



187 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: As Economies Slow, Price Of Gas Falls

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- The sharp slump in oil prices over the last few months is finally beginning to bring relief at the gasoline pump, with the price of a gallon of regular gasoline dropping nearly a penny a day over the last four weeks.
Gasoline cost an average of $3.41 nationwide on Tuesday, according to the AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report, down from more than $4 a gallon in some states in May. 
And with the global economy weakening further, prices for both oil and gasoline are likely to fall further in coming days, analysts say. On Tuesday, the price of Brent crude oil, a crucial global benchmark that is linked to the gasoline prices paid by most Americans, fell $1.92 a barrel in London trading, ending the day at $99.79. It was the first time Brent had closed below $100 since early February, when political turmoil began spreading across the Middle East and North Africa.
Oil experts say the dropping prices of oil and gasoline reflect increasing supply and declining demand worldwide, a surge in the value of the dollar in recent weeks and a gradual easing of fears that the Arab Spring revolutions would produce an oil supply shock.
''Oil wants desperately to grind down,'' said Jan Stuart, head of energy commodities research at Credit Suisse. ''Oil is moving down as part of a broader trade of equities, debt markets and commodities driven by a panicky feeling that the macroeconomic situation is deteriorating fast.''
The slowing global economy has led to declining demand for oil in Europe and the United States and has curbed consumption growth in China and other developing countries.
Gasoline consumption in the United States was down 2.5 percent in September compared to the same period a year ago, according to a MasterCard Spending Pulse survey. The survey has shown declines of 2 to 3 percent in the four-week moving averages of gasoline consumption every week since the week ending Aug. 5, reflecting a decline in economic activity.
Oil prices have also fallen in part because Europe's financial crisis has weakened the region's currency, the euro. Oil is denominated in dollars, so it becomes cheaper to buy in dollars when the greenback is stronger.
Oil supplies around the world remain tight, but they have eased, too, in recent months.
With the Libyan civil war winding down, exports of oil have started up again in recent days, and several European oil companies have returned to work in onshore and offshore fields. As much as a half-million barrels a day of high-quality crude could return to the market by the end of the year. Iraqi production is also slowly recovering.
As a rule of thumb, economists say a $10 decline in the price of a barrel of oil increases economic growth 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points, helping many businesses dependent on oil, like airlines and makers of plastics and fertilizers. Every dime shaved off the price of a gallon of gas can translate into an annual savings of $120 for the typical household that consumes 1,200 gallons a year.
But until the last couple of weeks, gasoline prices have not slumped as sharply as oil.
Part of that is because of a quirk of the American market. The main benchmark oil quoted in the United States, West Texas Intermediate, has fallen much more sharply than Brent crude, closing Tuesday at $75.67 a barrel, down $1.94.
Normally, W.T.I. and Brent have diverged in price by only a couple of dollars. But this year the gulf between the two has surged to $20 or more as a glut of W.T.I. built up at the Cushing, Okla., storage terminal, where W.T.I. contracts are settled.
Most Americans pay for gasoline that is pegged to Brent prices, not W.T.I. prices, and Brent prices have remained resiliently high.
''W.T.I. continues to capture headlines but has little to do with what Americans pay for fuel,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. ''Brent is the relevant number for drivers.''
Tuesday's average retail price per gallon of gasoline of $3.41 is still roughly 70 cents above a year ago and only about 15 percent below the year's high of $3.98 on May 5.
Mr. Kloza predicted that gasoline prices would continue to fall to around $3 in the coming months. ''That will be the launching pad for 2012, and we will overreact in the spring and prices will flirt with $4 again,'' he added, since oil and gasoline prices normally rise as the summer driving season approaches.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 14, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Oct. 5 about the decreasing price of gasoline misstated part of the name of a survey of gasoline prices. It is the MasterCard Spending Pulse survey, not the MasterCard Spending Plus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EURO CRISIS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



188 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Play Key Role As Entrepreneurs in City

BYLINE: By PATRICK WALL

 BODY:
Any taxi-riding, bodega-shopping, laundromat-using New Yorker knows that immigrants own many of the businesses that make New York tick. Now a new study shows that while immigrants constitute just over a third of the city's population, they make up nearly half of the city's small-business owners.
The study, published Monday by the Fiscal Policy Institute and based on census data, found that more than 69,000 New York City business owners - about 48 percent of the total - are foreign born. These immigrant entrepreneurs hail from around the world and run companies in every sector of the economy. But in certain lines of business, including dry cleaning, taxi services and grocery stores, the study shows that immigrant owners dominate. 
''When you think of New York neighborhoods, you think about the stores and restaurants and groceries,'' said David Dyssegaard Kallick, a senior fellow at the institute - a union-supported, nonpartisan research and advocacy group. ''Those are the kinds of small businesses where immigrants are playing a particularly strong role.''
The study (pdf) is based on a five-year sample of data from the 2005-9 American Community Survey. It defines small business owners as self-employed people with incorporated businesses, which excludes corporations and nonprofits.
The country whose natives make up the largest share of immigrant business owners is China, with about 9 percent of the total, followed by the Dominican Republic, Korea, India, Italy, Greece, Colombia, countries of the former Soviet Union, Israel and the Palestinian territories and Jamaica. Another 55 percent of foreign-born owners come from other countries.
Immigrant business owners represent a majority in several industry sectors, including transportation and warehousing, retail trade, construction, wholesale trade and manufacturing. Within those broad sectors, foreign-born ownership of certain types of businesses dwarfs United States-born ownership. A full 90 percent of the city's dry cleaning and taxi service owners are immigrants, as are 84 percent of grocery store owners and 75 percent of child day care owners.
Immigrants also have a strong presence in higher-skilled professions. Among computer systems design, architectural and engineering businesses, 40 percent of owners are foreign born.
The study notes that while the percentage of immigrant business owners is greater than the share of immigrants in the overall population, it is similar to the share of immigrants in the labor force, which is 46 percent. This means that New York's immigrants are more likely than their American-born peers both to own small businesses and to be in the labor force.
A 2008 analysis by the federal Small Business Administration found that, across the country, immigrants are nearly 30 percent more likely to start a business than are nonimmigrants.
Despite their numbers, immigrant entrepreneurs must navigate a sea of obstacles beyond the normal challenges that all small business owners face. One recent study showed that immigrants in New York were less likely than nonimmigrants to own a business that has been running for more than three-and-a-half years, and more likely to have shut down a business within the past year.
One commonly cited hurdle is a lack of access to the capital needed to start or expand a company. While most banks hesitate to loan money to any small business, which can be a risky, time-consuming process, they are especially reluctant to lend to immigrants, who often have little collateral and bad or nonexistent credit histories, experts say.
The situation is made worse for immigrants when banks send loan applications to distant offices to be evaluated, said Paul Quintero, CEO of ACCION USA, a New York-based microlender.
''You put an application in and it's processed by someone in Omaha,'' said Mr. Quintero. This disadvantages immigrants, who need ''people that can look into the white of your eyes, speak your language and understand where you're coming from.''
The average ACCION small business loan is about $7,000 and, in New York City, a majority of borrowers are immigrants.
In Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Abel Cherubin, a native of Haiti, has prepared taxes for a local clientele -- a mix of working-class blacks, Latinos and West Indians -- from a rented storefront for more than a decade. But his client base has shrunk to 300 customers from a peak of 800 and he has had to lay off his last few employees. He has fallen $6,000 behind on the rent and received an eviction notice last month.
''Maybe three, four months I could be out of business,'' said Mr. Cherubin, 55, who during the recession has borrowed money from a friend rather than approach a lender, after being turned down for loans in the past. ''That's my worry: I'm afraid one day I won't have that door to be open.''
Another major barrier for foreign-born entrepreneurs is confusion about the city's myriad business regulations. Whether because of inexperience, language problems or reliance on informal business networks, immigrants often misunderstand or are unaware of the rules regarding tax filing, permits and practices.
For instance, many ground-floor merchants in Chinatown do not realize they are responsible for cleaning the sidewalks outside their shops until they are fined for noncompliance, said Larry Mei, a business counselor at the Chinatown Manpower Project.
''The business here is more regulated,'' Mr. Mei said. ''In China, they don't have that many agencies that look after the businesses.''
This year, the city introduced three new initiatives intended to support immigrant business owners. They include a competition that awarded funds to organizations that assist foreign-born entrepreneurs, free business classes to be offered in five non-English languages and an expo this month that will showcase immigrant-owned food manufacturing businesses.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); CENSUS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CHILD CARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



189 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: In Deal With Ford, Union Wins Wage Increases and Additional Jobs

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- After winning promises of thousands of new jobs and bonuses for active workers at the Ford Motor Company, the United Automobile Workers union now turns to Chrysler to wrap up its epic contract talks with Detroit's major automakers.
The U.A.W. and Ford on Tuesday announced a tentative agreement on a four-year contract that substantially mirrors the deal struck last month at G.M. 
The union's president, Bob King, said he anticipated reaching a settlement soon with Chrysler, the smallest and least profitable of the Detroit car companies.
''We want to go in and finish the job at Chrysler very quickly,'' Mr. King said at a news conference here on Tuesday to announce details of the Ford pact.
About 41,000 union workers at Ford will vote over the next two weeks on whether to approve the agreement, which calls for the company to create 5,750 entry-level jobs in the United States over the four years of the contract. Those jobs are in addition to 6,250 positions that Ford previously said it would add over the next two years.
Besides increasing jobs and investment in its facilities in the United States, Ford also agreed to raise the hourly wages of entry-level employees to $19 by the end of the contract, from about $15 now.
Longtime auto workers, who earn about $28 an hour, did not get any increase in base wages. Instead, Ford agreed to give workers with at least one year on the job a $6,000 bonus for signing the new contract as well as annual $1,500 payments beginning next year and through 2015.
The bonuses are higher than those agreed to by G.M., which is still in the early stages of its comeback from a government bailout and bankruptcy protection in 2009.
Analysts said Ford had to sweeten its payments to workers because the company has posted better financial results than its crosstown rivals and rewarded its top executives with bonuses and stock options.
Ford agreed to pay the first six months of 2011 profit-sharing for workers -- about $3,700 a worker -- in November, and the balance next year. Usually, the automakers make profit-sharing payments after the calendar year.
John Fleming, Ford's head of global manufacturing and labor affairs, said Tuesday that the contract was meant to reward workers and improve the company's cost structure.
''We really believe that it's fair to our employees and recognizes the contribution that they've made to the success of the Ford Motor Company,'' Mr. Fleming said at a briefing. ''But we're also pleased that it will continue to improve our competitiveness directly here in the United States.''
Ford said it would invest an additional $4.8 billion in its United States plants beyond previously announced capital expenditures. Several factories received guarantees of new products in the contract, including an Ohio assembly plant that will build medium-duty trucks that had been slated for production in Mexico.
''Our membership not only wanted good wages, they wanted to make sure they had security in their jobs,'' said Jimmy Settles, the U.A.W.'s chief negotiator with Ford. Ford officials declined to say whether the contract directly matched what G.M. achieved in terms of holding the line on labor costs. G.M. executives have said their deal will add about 1 percent to labor costs annually over the life of the contract.
Mr. King said he believed the Ford deal followed the pattern set by G.M. ''The overall costs are very comparable,'' he said.
The success of the Detroit labor talks is seen as significant because of the industry's gradual comeback in the face of strong economic headwinds. The union tried to extract bonuses and new jobs without creating additional costs, said Harley Shaiken, a labor professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
''This is a good contract in very bad times, and that's an unusual achievement,'' Mr. Shaiken said. ''It makes the companies more competitive and allows the workers to share in the success.''
Mr. King expressed confidence that Ford workers would approve the deal. G.M. employees ratified their agreement last week by almost two to one.
The negotiations may be trickier at Chrysler, which has taken longer than G.M. to turn around after its own federal bailout and trip through bankruptcy.
Now controlled by the Italian automaker Fiat, Chrysler is still struggling to achieve solid profitability. Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of both companies, has said Chrysler could not afford contracts as rich as those at G.M. and Ford.
''The contract at Chrysler will not be identical to Ford's deal,'' Mr. Shaiken said. ''But it is likely to be the same framework tailored to fit Chrysler.''
The union and Chrysler have agreed to extend their current contract until Oct. 19. Mr. King played down the possibility that the U.A.W. or Chrysler would have to seek arbitration to reach an agreement.
''Sergio doesn't want to turn it over to a third party to decide, and I don't want to turn it over to a third party,'' Mr. King said.
Online Correction: October 4, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly said that $2.4 billion of the $6.2 billion investments that Ford would make had already been announced. Actually, $1.4 billion was already announced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); BONUS PAY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); APPROVALS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); BAILOUTS (62%); STOCK OPTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



190 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: The Downside To a Debt Jubilee

BYLINE: By MARTIN HUTCHINSON and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
Good ends do not justify bad means. That philosophical observation applies to proposals for a big American debt jubilee that are now doing the rounds. The basic idea is to slash consumer debt, which is an admirable aim for an overleveraged nation. Household debt is still 90 percent of gross domestic product, down only modestly from the 2008 peak of 100 percent. But even bank-haters should recognize that this cure might be worse than the disease.
To start, writing off debts would not necessarily increase economic growth. Every liability is also an asset, so while a dollar that is no longer required for debt repayment might add some cents to consumer spending, it is also a dollar cut out of a bank's capital or of an investor's net worth -- subtracting from resources and confidence. 
And write-offs big enough to change consumer behavior would probably be big enough to destabilize banks. The Federal Reserve or the government would need to help, presumably by injecting newly printed money as capital. Such government control is usually inefficient, and abundant printing of money increases the risk of uncontrolled inflation, which has its own way of making people feel poorer.
The issue of moral hazard also cannot be ignored. Much of the excess debt was incurred through irresponsible mortgage refinancing, which peaked in 2006 at $322 billion, representing 2.4 percent of G.D.P. The reckless use of houses as A.T.M.'s was a major factor in decapitalizing and destabilizing the American economy. Forgiving such debts will teach the wrong lesson: borrow in haste, repent never.
Finally, investors would rightly see a jubilee as an attack on property rights. That runs the risk of throwing markets into disarray and discouraging foreign investors from buying assets in the United States. Risk premiums on both debt and equity capital would increase.
There are better ways to deleverage. Higher inflation does the job more naturally, without invidious choices about whose debt got reduced. But inflation also discourages savers, weakening capital formation. The best way to get debts under control is the hard slog of paying some back and writing the rest off.
Sound money, including interest rates above inflation, would help by preserving existing capital and promoting savings. After all, capital creation, not its destruction through debt forgiveness, is what makes capitalism work.
Apple's New Victims
Apple has an astonishing ability to casually unleash creative destruction. Its latest iPhone, the 4S, offers faster data processing and downloads as well as voice-powered software. The phone, released Tuesday, may not have lived up to the most feverish expectations of investors. Apple shares fell while the market rallied. But it will do more than enough to create headaches for companies ranging from Research in Motion to American Greetings.
Smartphones started by devouring the personal digital assistant, as any former Palm Pilot aficionado can testify. Wristwatch sales declined. They terrorized the market for fixed-line phones, which are now in sharp decline. Apple's newest gadget shows just how hungry smartphone makers, and Apple in particular, are to eat the lunches of all sorts of rivals.
For instance, the new iPhone offers an improved video camera. That will further hurt sales of digital still and video cameras. Its software allows easy and free texting to other Apple devices. That's bad news for telephone operators, who make fat margins on such services. Instant messaging has also been the killer app for BlackBerry users.
Apple also unveiled a function that lets users digitally create their own greeting cards and send them in physical form. That may not excite Apple's most ardent fans, but it was enough to send shares of the card makers American Greetings and the British company International Greetings reeling. Oh, and the new iPod Nano allows runners to track their performance, which will take a chunk out of the market for personal fitness monitors and shoes with sensors.
In a sense, though, these are the easily quantifiable effects of the new iPhone. The device also comes with software allowing users to search the Internet, answer queries, take dictation or set up phone commands using their voice. It's hard to judge how effective this software is until the 4S hits the shelves. But investors on the lookout for Apple's creative/destructive impact should be drawing up a new list of victims.
MARTIN HUTCHINSON and ROBERT CYRAN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Greetings is now competing with iPhone's greeting-card app. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INFLATION (88%); SMARTPHONES (84%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (84%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (63%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (81%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (50%); PALM INC (50%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); AM (NYSE) (50%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



191 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Routinely Rogue, Puerto Rico's Police Face a New Order

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
SAN JUAN, P.R. -- The discrepancies in the Puerto Rico police logs were hard to miss. Burglaries, including stolen plasma televisions and jewelry, were coded as mere breaking and entering. Large-scale thefts of telephone company cables were labeled property damage.
After months spent investigating, it was clear to Norman O. Torrens, an internal affairs agent for the Puerto Rico Police Department, that scores of felony crimes in Vega Alta, in the north, were being intentionally recorded as misdemeanors. The result was that these crimes were not counted in statistics released by the Police Department to support its claim that while the murder rate was higher than ever, other felonies were declining.
''They are lying to the people of Puerto Rico by telling them that crime statistics are going down,'' said Officer Torrens, 37, who was abruptly demoted this summer after presenting his findings, first to his supervisor and then to officials in Puerto Rico's Justice Department. ''The bosses are the ones who push this to happen. The culture here is if you don't produce, you get nowhere.''
The manipulation of statistics, long suspected by Puerto Ricans, is just one of the systemic failures that the Police Department must reverse after a blistering report last month from the United States Department of Justice outlined widespread dysfunction and civil rights violations. 
For decades, the Police Department has operated without much oversight and officers have maneuvered with little supervision, training or accountability. The failings, detailed not only in the Justice Department report but also by the governor's own monitor, are glaring:
Until recently, not one police precinct had instructions for handling domestic violence; civilian complaints piled up by the thousands, unaddressed; hate crimes went unrecognized; continuing training for police officers was unheard of; officers went unpaid for long stretches; and the Police Department was not connected to the national crime database, which meant that criminals from the 50 states could easily slip through the cracks here.
Gov. Luis G. Fortuno, a Republican, said in an interview that he was well aware of the department's turbulent history and that the problems were worse than anticipated when he took office in 2009.
''Most of the problems occurred before my time,'' Mr. Fortuno said. ''I accept responsibility. My mandate is to change that. But this will take time. It was years in the making, and it will take years to fix.''
Rooted in the dictate of ''la mano dura'' -- the Puerto Rican version of ''get tough on crime'' -- the department operated for decades under a system that rewarded arrests much more than community policing, criminologists say. The result, they say, is that most Puerto Ricans do not trust or respect the police, including claims that most violent crime is down.
''This was all predicted 15 years ago, this problem,'' said Dora Nevares-Muniz, a criminologist and law professor at the Inter American University of Puerto Rico who sat on a commission that evaluated the Police Department in 2008. ''The vision of the police is not a vision of prevention. The vision is a vision of control, of intervention after the crime is committed. And even at that they are not efficient. And then every time the government changes here, they want to reinvent the wheel.''
Ms. Nevares-Muniz said the public's views about the police force had further deteriorated under Mr. Fortuno, whose New Progressive Party won supermajorities in the 2008 election. There is a sense, Ms. Nevares-Muniz said, that the governor further politicized the Police Department -- already an established tradition -- and installed people who were overly eager to please.
This was one reason that ill-trained police officers used too much force on demonstrators last year in front of the Capitol, she said. The demonstrators were protesting government layoffs and college fee increases. The other reason is that Puerto Rico lacked an explicit policy on when and how to use force. The governor was widely criticized for his handling of the protest.
Favoritism in the department, Ms. Nevares-Muniz said, had reached the point that many supervisors no longer relied on exams to promote officers.
This is why, in part, Officer Torrens chose to speak publicly. Rather than being promoted for his diligence -- he had been assigned the task of investigating the department's statistics in the Bayamon District -- he was returned to patrol duty in the precinct he had investigated, a tricky turn of events for an internal affairs officer. He is suing the Police Department for what he said was his wrongful transfer.
''An officer knows he can get a special job if the boss is able to say that crime is going down,'' said Officer Torrens, who has a record of positive evaluations. ''So with traffic cops, you give tickets. With drug busts, you make arrests, whether the person has drugs or not. If you don't arrest, you're out.''
The governor said he was already working to change the culture of the Police Department along with its operational nuts and bolts long before the Justice Department report. Last month, he announced that the police and prosecutors would now work with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives on armed robberies, carjackings and other crimes in five regions. Those cases will be handled in federal court, and the regions have been assigned six special prosecutors to expedite the cases.
Mr. Fortuno said he recognized that the department needed outside assistance last year, so he contracted Robert Warshaw, a career police chief who specializes in overhauling police departments. The same year, Puerto Rico finally looped into the national crime database.
Mr. Fortuno said he and his aides also had sought out experts in New York City. One day after the June 30, 2010, demonstration in front of the Capitol, during which the police struck protesters with truncheons and used pepper spray, the governor called to ask Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly for help, he said. The city complied.
The governor began in internal investigation of his own last September, when he appointed an independent monitor to investigate the scope of the failures, a precursor to the Justice Department report. The conclusion: the department was in disarray.
Four months ago, Mr. Fortuno replaced the police chief and began phasing in some of the changes, including better training -- 2,000 officers so far have received it -- and a detailed ''use of force'' policy. The tactical squad, which was often at the center of abuse accusations, has been cut by half. And promotions are reverting back to an exams-based system.
Other changes will follow in the next year, including the retraining of all supervisors and police officers and new software to track statistics and complaints.
But a few things are not likely to change soon. While police officers finally received the pay they were due, their salaries -- the lowest in the United States -- are not likely to rise with the economy still struggling. The median salary for a police officer in Puerto Rico is $31,000; in Orlando, Fla., for example, starting salaries are nearly $42,000. Still, police jobs are coveted on an island where college graduation rates are low and unemployment is high.
The governor's critics say they wonder whether the flurry of changes will amount to anything lasting. After all, they say, the findings did not come as a surprise.
''There had to be pressure from outside for this to change,'' said Osvaldo Toledo Martinez, the president of the Puerto Rican Bar Association and a vocal critic of Mr. Fortuno. ''So it will change because he is now obligated to comply. We have to believe that people will trust in the police again. But they have to see positive action right away. If that happens, they will have confidence.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, cadets attending the Police Academy in Gurabo, P.R. Above, a homicide detective worked at a crime scene in Caguas while an officer stood guard. Officer Norman O. Torrens, below, was demoted after revealing the manipulation of crime statistics. (A13)
 Cadets practiced an arrest drill during exercises last month at the Puerto Rico Police Academy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENNIS RIVERA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); CRIME RATES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BURGLARY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FELONIES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); MURDER (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



192 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: At Controls of Doomed Aircraft, a Pilot With Experience

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Five years ago, Paul Dudley was at the helm of a plane that was forced to make an emergency landing in a Brooklyn park. It was a nonevent, he said, engine trouble that he compared to ''getting a blowout with your car on the highway.'' 
The same could not be said of Mr. Dudley's experience on Tuesday: he was flying the helicopter that plunged into the East River, killing one of his four passengers.
Reached at their home in Southampton, N.Y., Mr. Dudley's wife said that the passengers were ''dear friends of ours'' but that she did not know why they were flying from Manhattan. She said she was headed to New York City to pick up her husband, who had refused to go to a hospital for treatment.
Mr. Dudley owns the helicopter, a Bell 206 JetRanger built in 1976, that he regularly used to commute to Linden, N.J., where he manages a small airport that serves as a base for many of the commercial helicopters that fly tourists and executives around the city and most of the television and radio news helicopters. He did not fly tourist flights or corporate excursions, said Michael Roth, who runs the New York Helicopter service out of Linden.
''He's a good pilot,'' Mr. Roth said of Mr. Dudley, 56. ''He's been flying around for a long time.''
But Mr. Roth, whose company is a tenant at Linden Airport, emphasized that his landlord was not one of his competitors in the business of flying tourists around the city. Indeed, the East 34th Street Heliport, near where the crash occurred, does not handle excursions; in Manhattan, the sightseeing business is limited to a heliport, near Wall Street.
Mr. Roth said the weather could not have been a factor in the crash because flying conditions in the city were normal. ''Everything was perfect; there was no reason for this to happen,'' he said, adding that the cause must have been a mechanical failure or pilot error.
Three years ago, Mr. Dudley bid for a contract to operate the downtown heliport. After the city's Economic Development Corporation chose another bidder, Mr. Dudley sued, arguing that he had more experience and was willing to pay the city more. In the suit, Mr. Dudley contended that the awarding of the contract was fraudulent and would cost the city millions of dollars in potential revenue.
But he did not prevail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (84%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



193 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: The Self-Sufficient Office Building

BYLINE: By BRYN NELSON

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- One of the most highly anticipated development projects in the Pacific Northwest is still little more than a grid of concrete and rebar at the edge of the Capitol Hill neighborhood here. When completed near the end of next year, though, the six-story office building may be the greenest commercial structure in the world.
The building, the $30 million Bullitt Center at 1501 East Madison Street, is expected to set a new precedent for environmentally friendly design and construction and in doing so would reinforce Seattle's reputation as a global leader in sustainable development.
As the future home of the environmentally focused Bullitt Foundation and other like-minded tenants, the Bullitt Center is designed to produce as much electricity as it uses, making it both energy- and carbon-neutral. The building will supply and treat all of its own water, capturing rainwater in a 50,000-gallon underground cistern. And its construction will exclude items on a ''red list'' of hazardous materials like lead and cadmium, a stipulation that has required developers to compile a spreadsheet of 362 prohibited building components. 
If the Bullitt Center passes the self-sufficiency test after its first full year of occupancy, it will be certified as a ''living building'' by the International Living Future Institute, a group based in Seattle that has established a green building standard, called the Living Building Challenge, widely viewed as the world's toughest.
''The story is that this building is pushing the boundaries of performance in all categories, not just in one or two,'' said Jason McLennan, the chief executive of both the certifying institute and the Cascadia Green Building Council, a chapter of the U.S. Green Building Council that administers the better-known LEED rating system. ''For this building type and this scale, it's the first in the world to go this far.''
So far, only three modestly sized buildings have been fully certified as ''living buildings,'' a phrase Mr. McLennan coined in the '90s for structures that could operate ''as elegantly and efficiently as flowers.'' Joining the exclusive group means meeting expectations in seven areas, or ''petals,'' including water, energy, health, materials, site, equity and beauty; projects also may attain certification in individual petals.
Although the concept has not yet attained the popularity of movements like the primarily European Passivhaus, about 100 other ''living building'' projects are in development.
Denis Hayes, the president and chief executive of the Bullitt Foundation and a national coordinator of the first Earth Day in 1970, said his foundation's future home had benefited from an integrated design process involving architects, engineers, developers and contractors.
Rising above an adjacent pocket park lined with gnarled sycamores, the building will be capped by a rooftop ''sombrero'' of photovoltaic panels expected to produce enough energy in the summer to overcome wintertime deficits and break even over an entire year.
The idea that solar energy alone could meet the needs of a multistory office building in overcast Seattle might strike some as wishful thinking.
But that will be accomplished through a combination of increased panel efficiency and a decrease in energy demands. The Bullitt Center is expected to use less than one-fourth the energy of a typical building its size; conventional usage would have dictated a 64,000-square-foot solar panel canopy that would have shrouded the block.
Even so, the solar panel array will extend out like a brim over the sidewalk, requiring a special permit from the city. Minimizing the building's energy footprint has also required higher ceilings and windows to let in as much natural daylight as possible, tacking an additional nine feet to the building's overall height and prompting an ultimately unsuccessful zoning challenge from a neighboring apartment building.
Meeting strict water usage rules could prove more onerous. As planned, the Bullitt Center will collect and treat rainwater for its showers, sinks and drinking fountains, then filter the used ''gray water'' through a lower-level green roof and a strip of landscaping. The building's raw sewage will be composted and decontaminated before being shipped offsite to be converted into fertilizer.
The Washington State Department of Public Health requires urban public-use buildings that obtain their potable water from anything other than a municipal supply to chlorinate it. But chlorine would run afoul of the Living Building Challenge's prohibitions on toxins, and the Bullitt Center's backers are pushing instead for ozone purification, a less toxic method used elsewhere around the world.
Chris Rogers, of the building's developer, Point32, said the project's team was negotiating with state authorities over how to have the Bullitt Center's water independently tested to prove that it would meet quality standards. Even if it does, the Bullitt Center will remain connected to the city's water supply as a backup.
The project ran into another snag over financing. The Bullitt Foundation challenged a design firm, the Miller Hull Partnership, and their collaborators to develop a core of steel, concrete and timbers with a life expectancy of 250 years, a nearly unheard-of number in an industry that typically uses 40-year life spans in appraising the value of commercial buildings. With no comparable structures to point to, banks were at a loss for how to value many of the building's central features, including its expected longevity and its energy and water self-sufficiency. Most balked at lending. Meanwhile, the upfront costs have run about one-third higher than for commercial structures of comparable size.
''Candidly, we had to put more equity into this building than we expected,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''We found only a very, very, very limited number of banks that would even consider making a loan, and the most generous of them gave us a construction permit for about 50 percent of the cost of constructing the building.''
Mr. McLennan said the difficulties in financing the project, however, could ease the strain on future efforts by providing a template for the added value of a living building. ''How do you find comparables for a building that's never been built like this before?'' he asked. ''You can't.''
The project has won some important victories. Earlier in its development, it was a catalyst for the passage of a 2009 Seattle ordinance that set up a pilot program offering new flexibility in the city's land use code for up to 12 potential ''living buildings.''
After the developers selected highly energy-efficient windows from Schuco International, a German company, it agreed to set up its first American assembly plant, in the Puget Sound region. And Point32's team persuaded Building Envelope Innovations, of Clackamas, Ore., to reformulate its Wet-Flash sealant, a liquid spray that creates watertight and airtight barriers, to exclude phthalates, compounds that mimic some human hormones and have been linked to disruptions in the endocrine system.
The Bullitt Center has early lease commitments for four of its six floors. The building's general contractor, the Schuchart Corporation, will be a principal tenant, joining Mr. McLennan's Cascadia Green Building Council in staking their reputations on the structure's success. The foundation says rents will be comparable to those for other newly constructed, LEED-certified buildings in the area, and it eventually expects a positive return on investment.
Mr. Hayes said the project team was talking with behavioral economists on incentives to encourage tenants to practice environmentally responsible habits. Immediate feedback on energy use may be one. Competition among floors may be another, as well as making each tenant's consumption public.
Designers also are not beyond a little bribery. At the site's high point along East Madison Street, a glass-enclosed stairwell will connect the upper four floors. Those who choose to walk rather than take the elevator will be rewarded with spectacular views of the Space Needle and downtown skyline.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Denis Hayes, left, of the Bullitt Foundation and Chris Rogers, the Bullitt Center's developer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK MASTIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (89%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



194 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ASKED AND ANSWERED; Pg. 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: From Hibbing, Minn., a Plea for Planes to Keep Flying

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Delta Airlines recently announced that it would probably drop or reduce commercial air service to 24 smaller cities in the United States because the flights are often half-full -- or even less -- and lose millions of dollars a year. Delta, under an agreement with the federal government, is the only carrier to serve the cities, which rely on the flights to stay connected to the rest of the country. Without the service, they fear isolation, and in some cases, economic calamity. Butte, Mont.; Muscle Shoals, Ala.; Waterloo, Iowa; Pierre, S.D.; Greenville and Tupelo, Miss.; Sault Sainte Marie, Mich.; and Hibbing, Minn., are among the cities where the flights are threatened. Residents of Hibbing, population 16,000, and the heart of Minnesota's Iron Range -- where iron-ore mining is the predominant industry -- are particularly concerned. The city's mayor, Rick Cannata, and Patty Shafer, a city councilor, discuss:
Q. Why are the Delta flights so important to Hibbing? 
Ms. Shaffer: ''Really, in the Iron Range, we've got plants that are going to open up in the next few years. Once they open, they are going to have hundreds of jobs -- good-paying jobs. Minneapolis is 200 miles away. We're from a smaller county here. A lot of people here are elderly. They can't drive down to Minneapolis and St. Paul. There's really no bus or train to take you to Minneapolis-St. Paul, so the airport is our main source of transportation. Driving, it takes three-and-a-half to four hours. Flying takes about 40 minutes. It is a big difference.''
Mr. Cannata: ''We're the only airport north of Duluth for the whole Iron Range. We need those commercial flights. The drive to Minneapolis is three hours, and you're paying for parking down there. We have no train service. We don't have bus service. You have to go to Duluth to catch the bus. We're a mining community that is expanding. The business people fly in in the morning, and they can catch the afternoon flight out.''
Q. How many flights a day are there?
Ms. Shafer: ''There are three flights in daily. One leaves at 6:30 a.m. and originates in International Falls, stops here and goes to the [Twin] Cities. Then there's another one we just got a year ago that comes from Minneapolis and another one that comes from Minneapolis in the evening. If they discontinue all of this, it's going to be terrible for the Iron Range, not just Hibbing. The next closest place is Duluth, 80 miles away.''
Q. Delta says the flights are not nearly full, and that it is losing money. Why should they keep flying to Hibbing?
Ms. Shafer: ''A lot of these big companies don't care about the people. They just don't care about the needs of people anymore. They only care about their bottom line. If that isn't greed, what is it? It's crazy.''
Mr. Cannata: ''We're a mining community so we have ups and downs. A lot of the younger people are moving away. One of the reasons I ran for office was to bring manufacturing jobs to Hibbing. There is a big market now for copper-nickel. It is used in cellphones and computers. Northern Minnesota is going to have a booming industry, which is one of the reasons we need to keep the flights. If these airlines are doing this just because they are not making enough money ... Sometimes if smaller counties aren't able to meet their needs they could still provide a service. They should be kind of, you know, they should meet the needs of the people. They should be sympathetic to that. It will be devastating for Hibbing. Businesses will probably be lost.''
Q. What's there to do in Hibbing?
Mr. Cannata: ''At the end of May we have Bob Dylan Days. [Mr. Dylan was raised in Hibbing]. We have people from all over the world for that. There is a singing contest and a songwriting contest and there are tours. In Zimmy's bar there's all kinds of memorabilia and photos.''
Ms. Shafer: ''Hibbing is a beautiful town. Hibbing has the largest open-pit mine in the world. It's beautiful. You are overlooking the whole thing and you can see the trucks going in and out. And once a month they blast. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. It's just a big hole with red rock. This was the birthplace of the Greyhound bus lines, and now we don't have any bus service. There's something wrong with this picture.''
Q. Has Mr. Dylan been in town any time recently?
Mr. Cannata: ''No, he hasn't. (Laughter). We're going to work on that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); IRON MINING (88%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); CITIES (78%); MINES & MINING (74%); MAYORS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (64%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); DULUTH, MN, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (79%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



195 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Evidence of Christie's Unfinished Business? Visit a New Jersey City

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
Trenton
New Jersey's Big Man has peered into the right-wing abyss that is the Republican presidential primary and stepped away.
Fair enough.
That he will remain a formidable presence is beyond argument. He has rolled unions and won pension givebacks, and his ratings in this blue state sometimes look red state friendly.
With his Jersey Guy spiel, he is described as unscripted, which is Lesson 433 in the eternal gullibility of journalists. He writes the script to appear unscripted -- and his staff posts evidence of his ''spontaneity'' on YouTube. 
It's all great theater. As the governor acknowledged on Tuesday afternoon, he is left to wrestle with the prosaic reality of governing in a recession. ''It just never felt right to me to leave now,'' he said.
In fact, Mr. Christie has presided over nothing like a New Jersey Miracle. It's a scripted mirage.
Income and jobs in this middle-class state are tumbling downward. Mr. Christie's chief economist regularly claims to discern rays of sunshine, but private-sector jobs shrank last month, and the unemployment rate is higher than a year ago. Tax receipts are comatose.
And New Jersey's cities remain aggressively forgotten by the governor.
In Trenton on Friday, I stepped out of a State House hot with presidential fever, crossed State Street and walked a block north. A gentleman offered to sell me a nickel bag of pot. I apologized that the timing was all wrong, and continued down a tenement block to Calhoun Street.
There, seven young black men commanded a corner in their best gang-color strut, with that melancholy adolescent admixture of menace and fear. A mother with a daughter and a tiny woman pushing a laundry cart gave them wide berth.
Trenton's mayor, Tony Mack, recently let go one-third of his police force. He knows this is demented public policy, but state aid cuts have left him with a $27 million hole in his budget.
Mr. Mack occupies a City Hall where the white marble is stained green and crumbling. Weeds are conducting hostile takeovers of flower beds. ''It's a pretty dismal picture right now,'' he said.
The violent crime rate in Trenton is twice that of New York City's, and the New Jersey city has, per capita, a third fewer police officers. How will that play out?
''Well, I mean, I hope it won't have a drastic effect,'' the mayor replied.
Is the governor any help?
Mr. Mack's voice falls. ''There's dialogue, but revenue hasn't followed our conversation,'' he said.
Does that bother you?
''The governor is governing,'' he said, ''according to his thought processes.''
New Jersey's politics rarely are more dispiriting than when you search for a mayor with outrage to spare.
Camden's mayor all but hides in her office, for fear she will utter a word that displeases her political boss, George E. Norcross III, a Democrat who has cut handsome deals with Mr. Christie.
Newark's mayor, Cory A. Booker, is the Stanford-and-Yale-educated darling of the hedge fund set, and a considerable step up from the wily old crook who preceded him. But his staff's strangled silence about state cuts is impressive. Newark sits in Essex County, which is run by Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., a Democrat who also plays well with the governor, perhaps a presidential candidate someday.
The state is hamstrung by these county political warlords.
Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat who was governor, cut deals with these fellows, and Mr. Christie might argue that he simply plays the game with more panache. Although, given that Mr. Christie was a United States attorney charged with investigating the generous levels of corruption here, you might hike an eyebrow at his explanation.
In 2002, just before the primary election, United States Attorney Christie issued a letter stating that Mr. DiVincenzo, who was a candidate, was not under federal investigation; this highly unusual move reportedly left Mr. DiVincenzo greatly touched.
These bosses could perhaps prevail upon Governor Christie to open the spigots and let aid flow into their cities. But help for now remains a dry streambed.
Last week in Trenton, thugs shot up a popular restaurant. Another fellow emptied a semiautomatic pistol into parked cars. The police collected 61 bullet shells.
You walk Paul Avenue here, and in the shadow of a sycamore, a middle-age fellow wearing shorts swings his 5-iron to laughs from a porch full of gangbangers.
Barbara Cameron, a wiry, 30-year resident, peers out her door. ''The bangers don't pull junk on this block, but don't go around the corner, no, no,'' she said.
Ask about the governor's presidential reverie, and she shakes her head.
''You could just say we're forgotten here,'' she said, ''but don't we live in New Jersey, too?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie at a news conference in Trenton on Tuesday when he said he would not seek the Republican nomination for president. ''It just never felt right to me to leave now,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (78%); CRIME RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); WRITERS (71%); CITIES (70%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); TAKEOVERS (64%); VIOLENT CRIME (62%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



196 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Urges Obama and Congress to Do More for Economy

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told a Congressional committee Tuesday that lawmakers and the Obama administration should do more to increase economic growth.
Mr. Bernanke described the nation's economic health in bleak terms, saying that ''the recovery is close to faltering,'' and suggested that avoiding another recession might require fresh government action. ''We need to make sure that the recovery continues and doesn't drop back,'' he said.
Such talk from a Fed chairman usually means the central bank is preparing to reduce interest rates, and Mr. Bernanke said that the Fed was not ruling out such a step. But on Tuesday, as at other recent appearances, he made clear that his remarks were aimed at the rest of the government. 
''Monetary policy can be a powerful tool, but it is not a panacea for the problems currently faced by the U.S. economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''Fostering healthy growth and job creation is a shared responsibility of all economic policy makers.''
Mr. Bernanke has repeatedly called on Congress to adopt a plan for paying down the federal debt, as well as for reducing inequities and loopholes in the corporate tax code, two ideas that enjoy wide support among economists. On Tuesday he also focused on housing policy, suggesting that the government could help underwater homeowners refinance and also improve the availability of mortgages for potential buyers.
However, the Fed chairman sidestepped a number of questions from Republicans and Democrats seeking his support for specific legislative proposals to reduce the federal deficit or to encourage job creation.
Mr. Bernanke's critique of Congress mirrors mounting frustrations among some lawmakers over his leadership of the central bank. Some liberals want the Fed to try harder to increase growth by further reducing interest rates or injecting money directly into the economy. Conservatives, meanwhile, warn that any new efforts by the Fed are more likely to harm the economy.
Members of the Joint Economic Committee, where Mr. Bernanke answered questions for about 90 minutes Tuesday, pressed both of those arguments. But Mr. Bernanke remained firm in his position that the Fed already had done a great deal, and that it might do more -- but not right now.
The central bank, he said, ''is prepared to take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in the context of price stability.''
In recent speeches, Mr. Bernanke had suggested that the economy did not need much more help, and that growth would pick up speed so long as the government did not interfere, for example, by making sharp cuts to short-term spending. But the Fed, like many private sector forecasters, has been too optimistic in its predictions over the last two years, repeatedly overestimating the pace of growth.
On Tuesday, Mr. Bernanke reiterated the Fed's forecast that the health of the economy would probably improve, but suggested there was also a significant risk of a second recession unless the government acted to increase growth.
He suggested that Congress should keep four goals in mind: Reducing debts to a sustainable level, avoiding short-term spending cuts that could impede recovery, adjusting spending and tax policies to support growth, and improving the government's decision-making process.
''There is evident need to improve the process for making long-term budget decisions, to create greater predictability and clarity, while avoiding disruptions to the financial markets and the economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican, said that the central bank's policy of maintaining low interest rates had made it irresistible for Congress to keep borrowing money rather than rein in federal spending.
''We're able to borrow so much money right now at a reduced rate; there's a very strong impetus here to simply put off the tough decisions,'' he said.
Mr. Bernanke responded that the Fed was holding down interest rates, but ''I don't think that eliminates the responsibility of Congress to take its own action.''
The Fed's own recent efforts to increase growth have been modest in scope. The central bank announced in August that it intended to maintain short-term interest rates near zero for at least two more years. In September, it announced an effort to further reduce long-term interest rates by moving $400 billion from investments in short-term Treasury securities to longer-term Treasury securities. Both policies are aimed at reducing borrowing costs for businesses and consumers.
Mr. Bernanke said on Tuesday that the Fed estimated the September program would reduce the interest rate on Treasury securities by about 0.2 percentage points. Analysts estimate that the August program will have a similar impact.
''We think that this is a meaningful but not an enormous support to the economy,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''It should help somewhat on job creation and growth.''
But the efforts also have highlighted the limits of the Fed's power. While it can reduce the cost of borrowing, it has not made it easier for consumers and businesses to qualify for loans. Mr. Bernanke noted the example of mortgage loans, saying that lower interest rates had not increased the volume of new loans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke, with a helping hand from his aides, called for cutting the deficit, closing tax loopholes and assisting homeowners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CORPORATE TAX (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



197 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Obama Pitches Jobs Bill And Appeals to Donors

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jackie Calmes reported from Mesquite, and Jennifer Steinhauer from Washington. Griff Palmer contributed research.

 BODY:
MESQUITE, Tex. -- President Obama on Tuesday combined fund-raising and campaigning for his jobs bill in the home state of the Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry and the Congressional district of a House Republican leader, and he did not shy from telling donors that they and Texas' oil companies should pay more taxes for the nation's good.
At two luncheon fund-raisers and then at a community college here, Mr. Obama continued to challenge Congress to ''pass this bill.'' 
At Eastfield College in Mesquite, just east of Dallas, Mr. Obama almost shouted into the microphone, as if he were speaking to the Congressional leadership: ''The time for gridlock and games is over. The time for action is now.''
The president, to laughter, said Republicans would resist his plans ''if I took their party platform and proposed it'' because they say they do not want to give him a victory.
''Give me a win? Give me a break,'' he said, bringing the enthusiastic and diverse crowd of more than 1,000 to its feet. ''This is not about giving Democrats or Republicans a win. This is about giving people who are hurting a win. This is about giving small-business owners a win, and entrepreneurs a win, and students a win, and working families a win. This is about giving America a win.''
The trip was the latest example of the president's new strategy of confronting Republicans directly, after nearly a year in which they have blocked his efforts to raise more revenues from the wealthy and corporations both to reduce long-term deficits and, in the short term, to offset the cost of additional spending and tax cuts to spur the economy.
Mr. Obama did not mention either Mr. Perry or Representative Jeb Hensarling, the conservative who represents Mesquite. But he did single out the House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, for saying on Monday that he would not bring the president's job creation package to a vote.
''Do they not have the time? They just took the week off,'' Mr. Obama said mockingly.
Republicans oppose the package mainly because of the tax increases proposed to offset the $447 billion cost of extending temporary payroll tax cuts for all workers, cutting taxes for employers and providing additional spending for infrastructure work and for aid to local governments.
To persuade reluctant Democrats to help pay for the jobs bill, Senate leaders are pondering a surcharge on millionaires, Senate officials said Tuesday. During his closed-door lunch with other Democrats, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, proposed a plan in a which the top tax rate on income over $1 million dollars would be raised to a top rate of 40 percent, rather than the current 35 percent. This surcharge would replace a variety of other tax changes that Mr. Obama has proposed for high-income earners.
The White House reacted to the tentative proposal ambiguously.
''The president's goal is to grow the economy, put more money in the pockets of the middle class and put more Americans back to work,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, a White House spokesman, adding, ''As we have said from the beginning, we offered a balanced way to pay for the American Jobs Act, but if Congress has a better idea that ensures that everyone pays their fair share, we're open to it.''
Kevin Smith, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner, said Congress should concentrate on areas where Republicans have identified common ground with Democrats on jobs. ''That should be our focus,'' he said, ''not desperate gimmicks floated to cover up divisions within the Democratic caucus.''
Mr. Obama's trip to Texas and then to Missouri was unusual in that both are conservative states he did not win in 2008, and is not expected to win in 2012. The president's trip showed that even in Republican-friendly states he can scoop up campaign dollars. Texas ranks fourth among the states as a source of the $33.4 million that Mr. Obama raised through the first half of this year for the 2012 campaign cycle and for the Democratic National Committee -- behind the Democratic-leaning states of California, New York and Illinois.
In Dallas, more than 500 people paid at least $500 a person to hear Mr. Obama, and a second luncheon for $35,800 a couple drew about 30 people. He got applause when he told the donors, ''We've got to ask the wealthiest Americans, the biggest corporations to pay their fair share.''
''If we want to put people back to work and close this deficit and invest in our future, then the money has got to come from somewhere,'' Mr. Obama added. ''So you've got a choice. Would you rather keep tax loopholes for oil companies that are doing just fine? I know I'm in Texas. I know there's a lot of oil here. But they're doing fine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama greeting supporters Tuesday at Love Field in Dallas. Mr. Obama combined fund-raising and campaigning for his jobs bill on the Texas trip and a visit later in the day to St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); FAMILY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RICK PERRY (78%); JEB HENSARLING (57%); ERIC CANTOR (57%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



198 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BRITAIN PLANS TO TIGHTEN
ANTI-SQUATTER LAWS
The British government plans to strengthen anti-squatting laws to make it easier for property owners to evict uninvited tenants. The proposed regulations would, among other things, make trespassing, and by extension squatting, a crime, and would speed up the mechanisms by which squatters could be evicted. Currently, squatting in an empty commercial property is a civil offense, and such squatters can be removed only by court order. Page A4
IRAQ'S TERMS ON TROOPS 
Iraq's political leaders announced that they had agreed on the need to keep American military trainers in Iraq next year, but they declared that any remaining troops should not be granted immunity from Iraqi law, a point the United States has said would be a deal breaker. The statement sent mixed signals as United States officials and the Iraqi cabinet negotiate whether any troops will remain after the first of the year, when the forces are all scheduled to depart. Page A4
RUSSIA'S ACCESSION TO W.T.O.
Russian officials said they were on the brink of a deal that would allow Russia to become a member of the World Trade Organization after 18 years of halting negotiations, though hostility between Georgia and Russia remains a crucial sticking point. Russia's accession to the organization has been a key goal of the reset between Russia and the United States, a rapprochement whose future is uncertain amid political change in both countries. Page A6
EGYPT UNCLEAR ON TIMETABLE
Anne W. Patterson, the United States ambassador to Egypt, said not even Egypt's interim military rulers knew when they planned to relinquish power to a new civilian government. Speaking at a news conference with Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, Ms. Patterson offered an unusually candid assessment of the haze over Egypt's path toward democracy after the revolution that ousted President Hosni Mubarak eight months ago. Page A8
National
G.O.P. ACCUSES HOLDER
OF MISLEADING CONGRESS
Republicans sought to intensify political pressure on Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. over a disputed investigation into a gun trafficking network based in Phoenix, accusing him of misleading Congress. Representative Lamar Smith sent a letter to President Obama asking him to appoint a special counsel to investigate whether Mr. Holder committed perjury in testimony about the investigation, known as Operation Fast & Furious, at a hearing in May.
Page A14
SPENDING BILL APPROVED
With limited discussion and zero fanfare, the House approved and sent to President Obama a measure to keep the government operating through mid-November, ending for now the threat of any shutdown. By a vote of 352 to 66, the House approved the measure, passed by the Senate just a week ago, closing another anguished chapter in the fiscal war between Republicans and Democrats. Page A15
GOVERNOR HOLDS ONTO OFFICE
Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin, a Democrat, narrowly won a special election for governor on, successfully defending himself against Republican attacks that tried to link him with President Obama and his health care overhaul. With about 98 percent of the precincts reporting, Mr. Tomblin had won 49 percent of the vote, beating his Republican opponent, Bill Maloney, who had garnered 47 percent. The hard-fought race was seen as a test for Democrats. Page A17
New York
SHUTTERED BUS FLEET
STILL ON THE ROAD
In the months after a bus crash on Interstate 95 killed 15 people in the Bronx, federal officials were so concerned about the operation of the bus company, World Wide Travel, that they revoked its registration. But the owner, Michael Shub, continues to book passengers on buses through two other companies that he owns and that share the same address in Brooklyn that World Wide Travel used. Page A20
Business
QUESTIONS ARISE OVER USE
OF AVASTIN TO TREAT EYES
The Department of Veterans Affairs has temporarily halted use of Avastin for eye conditions while it reviews reports that 21 patients were blinded from injections. In Los Angeles, the pharmacy company that was supplying Avastin to Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center decided to get out of that business, leaving the hospital without supplies. But many eye doctors say the problems occur in fewer than one in 1,000 injections. Page B1
SIGNS OF RELIEF AT THE PUMP
The sharp slump in oil prices over the last few months is finally beginning to bring relief at the gasoline pump, with the price of a gallon of regular gasoline dropping nearly a penny a day over the last four weeks. Gasoline cost an average of $3.41 nationwide on Tuesday, according to the AAA Daily Fuel Gauge report, down from more than $4 a gallon in some states in May. Page B3
BERNANKE CALLS FOR ACTION
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told a Congressional committee that lawmakers and the Obama administration should do more to increase economic growth. Mr. Bernanke described the nation's economic health in bleak terms and suggested that avoiding another recession might require fresh government action. Page B5
Sports
N.B.A. GAMES WILL BE LOST
AS LABOR TALKS FALTER
An effort to resolve the N.B.A. lockout faltered Tuesday, ensuring that games will be lost to a labor crisis for the second time in league history. Negotiators for the league and the players union met in Manhattan, but failed to reach agreement on the economic issues that have separated them for months: most critically, how to divide $4 billion in annual revenue. Page B16
MINNESOTA STADIUM BATTLE
The Vikings' proposal to build a $1.1 billion stadium on a Superfund site in Arden Hills, Minn., with the public paying about 60 percent of the cost, faces stiff opposition. However, when their lease expires at the Metrodome at the end of this season, the Vikings say they will not sign a new lease unless there is a deal in place to build them a new home. Page B14
Arts
LOS ANGELES ORCHESTRA
TO LEAD YOUTH EFFORT
The Los Angeles Philharmonic has seized the initiative in guiding a national teaching program based on El Sistema, the Venezuelan-based movement that weds music teaching and social work. The orchestra announced that it would open an office, host yearly conferences and support a training program to sustain the effort. Page C1
Dining
ELEVEN MADISON PARK
BEING SOLD IN-HOUSE
In the introduction of ''Eleven Madison Park: The Cookbook,'' Danny Meyer, the principal owner of the Manhattan restaurant that has been the cynosure of his empire, confirmed speculation on Eater.com that he intended to sell the restaurant to its executive chef and its general manager -- Daniel Humm and Will Guidara -- and their financial backers. Page D7
OP-ED
Maureen Dowd PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EVICTION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (73%); LAMAR SMITH (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); LEON E PANETTA (52%); EARL RAY TOMBLIN (50%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EGYPT (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



199 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Russia Declares It Is Close to Joining the World Trade Organization

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; Steven Yaccino contributed reporting from Chicago, and Helene Cooper from Washington.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- After high-level meetings in Washington, Russian officials said Tuesday that they were on the brink of a deal that would allow Russia to become a member of the World Trade Organization after 18 years of halting negotiations, though hostility between Georgia and Russia remains a crucial sticking point.
Russia's accession to the organization has been a key goal of the ''reset'' between Russia and the United States, a reconciliation whose future is uncertain amid political change in both countries. Russia's first deputy prime minister, Igor I. Shuvalov, said Tuesday that United States officials were vigorously advocating for Russia and that they were near a breakthrough. 
''We have Americans working 24 hours a day on our application in order to persuade other W.T.O. members that Russia should get membership before the end of the year,'' Mr. Shuvalov said at a United States-Russia trade event in Chicago. ''At the beginning of this year, very few people believed it was possible. Now we are very close to that.''
United States officials offered similarly upbeat assessments. One said American officials ''see every likelihood'' that Russia could obtain membership in December.
Russia has the largest economy of any country not in the 153-member trade group, and the World Bank says that as a member, Russia could bolster its annual gross domestic product as much as 11 percent over the long term, though noncompetitive industries might suffer. The repeated delays have frustrated Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, who publicly chastised his officials this spring for complying with regulations of the group, telling them, ''Why the hell should they admit us if we already observe everything?''
A top Georgian official said it was premature to celebrate Russia's accession. The trade group accepts members through a consensus system, meaning that Georgia, which joined in 2000, could block Russia. Although the organization could technically admit Russia through a vote of the majority, that type of accession has never happened.
Russia and Georgia have remained in an icy standoff since they fought a war in 2008, and Russia's military is deeply entrenched in the Georgian enclaves of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The countries began negotiating in March, with Georgia asking for international observers to be posted on the Russian side of the enclaves' borders. The countries have found no common ground, said Giga Bokeria, the secretary of Georgia's National Security Council.
Mr. Bokeria said the matter was a central topic of his meeting last week with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
''We know our allies are interested in having Russia in the W.T.O., but there is a compromise that has to be reached first,'' he said. ''The ball is in their court.''
The issue has taken on new significance with the news that Mr. Putin is poised to return to the presidency. Mr. Putin adopted a defiant posture toward the United States in his second presidential term and had little public role in the reset, though he clearly approved of the conciliatory tone set by President Dmitri A. Medvedev. Mr. Shuvalov said Tuesday that he had delivered a message to American officials from Mr. Putin.
''Everyone in the United States should understand that we will not forget the reset,'' Mr. Shuvalov said.
In recent days, negotiators appear to have removed most of the remaining obstacles to Russia's accession, including differences on meat imports, sanitary standards and incentives to Russian automobile producers. Andrei Slepnev, a deputy minister for economic development, said the burst of progress had surprised his team.
''We see today that our accession process is at the very end of its final stage,'' said Mr. Slepnev, in comments carried by the Interfax news service. Completing the process by December, he said, ''is quite possible if the consensus and the mood achieved within the W.T.O. today are maintained.''
Dominic Fean, a junior research fellow with the French Institute of International Relations, said agreements would have to be completed in the next few days if Russia were to join this year. Mr. Putin's return to the presidency, he said, has made the outcome ''more weighty.''
''If it happens now, it's a very different political signal in favor of integration,'' Mr. Fean said. ''It shows that Russian concerns about international standing, and about being present at the forums where important decisions are being made, have not gone away.''
Andrew C. Kuchins, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, emerged from Mr. Shuvalov's speech in Chicago with the sense that the sides were ''really close to the finish line,'' including in negotiations between Georgia and Russia, he said.
''There is not going to be a lot of support and sympathy at the end of the day if it were perceived that the Georgians were holding up W.T.O. accession,'' Mr. Kuchins said. ''The Russians have got to play ball and be flexible, too. The U.S. government has leaned way forward on this.''
Failure to reach an agreement, he added, ''would definitely be a blow to the bilateral relationship.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GEORGIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011



200 of 1445 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: West Virginia Democrat Keeps the Governor's Office

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, W.Va. - Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin, a Democrat, narrowly won a special election for governor on Tuesday, successfully defending himself against Republican attacks that tried to link him with President Obama and his health care overhaul.
With about 94 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Tomblin led his Republican opponent, Bill Maloney, by about 3 percentage points, according to the Web site of the West Virginia Secretary of State.
It was a slim victory in a hard-fought race that was seen as a test for Democrats. Mr. Maloney, a businessman, was initially viewed as a long-shot in this heavily Democratic state, but he surged ahead in the polls in recent weeks with the help of negative advertisements associating Mr. Tomblin with Mr. Obama, who is deeply unpopular here. Mr. Tomblin's campaign also ran negative ads. 
The election was unusual. It was ordered by the State Supreme Court after Joe Manchin III vacated the governor's office when he won a Senate seat last year. Mr. Tomblin, then the president of the State Senate, filled the vacancy as required by the State Constitution. He will now hold the office for just 14 months, until another election is held in November 2012.
West Virginia tends to vote for Republicans in presidential elections and for Democrats in local and state races. Robert C. Byrd, a Democratic senator who died last year and whose seat Mr. Manchin now occupies, was the state's longest-serving public official. The state has voted for Republican candidates in the last three presidential elections, but has had only three Republican governors since the late 1960s.
For months, Mr. Tomblin appeared to have the advantage. His conservative credentials seemed to appeal to Democrats, and endorsements were heaped upon him, including from the National Rifle Association, the West Virginia Coal Association and the Chamber of Commerce. He has continued a lawsuit filed by Mr. Manchin against the Environmental Protection Agency.
''You're not going to mistake him for Barney Frank,'' said Neil Berch, an associate professor of political science at West Virginia University, referring to the liberal Democratic congressman from Massachusetts.
But the country's mood toward incumbents has soured, helping to lift Mr. Maloney's campaign and presenting a formidable challenge to Mr. Tomblin, who struggled to maintain his advantage.
Mr. Obama was another liability, and Mr. Tomblin worked hard to distance himself. The Republican Governors Association ran the ad linking him to Mr. Obama's health care law, but that effort appeared to have fallen flat.
Mr. Maloney emphasized the fact that he was not a career politician. He pointed to West Virginia's low economic rankings - 49th in the nation in per capita income and dead last in labor force participation - as evidence that the records of long-serving Democratic political leaders are weak.
But national politics may have hurt Mr. Maloney too. The Republican plan to overhaul Medicare seemed to be still resonating here, with many voters viewing it unfavorably.
Kathy Jackson, a retired janitor, said she would cast her vote for the Democratic candidate because she did not trust Mr. Maloney.
''I heard on TV that he wanted to take away Medicare,'' she said, sitting in a wheelchair in a McDonald's restaurant in Charleston.
Turnout for the election was a meager 20 percent in Kanawha County, where Charleston is located, and many people interviewed here said they were sick of both political parties and had not bothered to vote.
''No one talks about the real issues that affect our lives,'' said one woman who did not vote. ''There's a real disconnect. You get no information. Just sound bites.''
H. Ray Evans, a retired journalist, said he voted for Bob Henry Baber, the Mountain Party candidate, not because he liked him, but because he could not bring himself to vote for the others.
Mr. Maloney ''is just some dude who drilled oil wells, made a lot of money and decided he wanted to be governor,'' said Mr. Evans, reading a book outside a cafe in downtown Charleston.
''I'm so sick of Republicans and Democrats being in the pockets of the energy industry,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Earl Ray Tomblin 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); WEB SITES (56%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: EARL RAY TOMBLIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE MANCHIN (78%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (92%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

 
