

401 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Glucosamine and Chondroitin, Drinks to Unlimber With

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
WHILE tablets that combine glucosamine and chondroitin are popular for those seeking relief from arthritis, Elations offers the supplements in the form of a bottled eight-ounce juice drink or powder mix, and it turns out the beverage appeals to consumers who have trouble swallowing not just pills -- but also the fact of aging.
 ''Baby boomers view themselves as forever young, and they think taking pills feels like taking medicine and like a symbol of feeling old or sick,'' said Mike Burton, director of shelf stable brands at the Sunny Delight Beverages Company, which makes Elations. 
 Glucosamine and chondroitin have their doubters among doctors, with several studies, including one published in The New England Journal of Medicine in 2006, indicating that for many people they do not relieve pain much better than placebos. 
 Yet such products remain popular with 25 percent of arthritis sufferers seeking relief with glucosamine, chondroitin or other supplements, according to a 2009 report by Mintel, a market research firm.
 Since its introduction in 2007, Elations has grown phenomenally in spite of the economic downturn. Revenue increased to $40 million in 2009 from $12 million in 2008 and is projected to rise to $75 million this year.
 Now the brand is embarking on an online marketing effort, by Dig Communications, a public relations agency in Chicago, to align itself with aging consumers' predilections for volunteerism and social media. In a contest called Boomers Building a Better America on the Facebook page of Elations, the brand is accepting nominations for community projects, which Facebook users can vote on until July 17. 
 Among the top 20 vote getters, a panel that includes the former Olympic gymnasts Bart Conner and Nadia Comaneci (now husband and wife) will choose three projects, and those will win $10,000. 
 Likely to be of greater value to the projects than the cash is that, in what the brand likens to an episode of ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,'' a Dig team will oversee each project to help coordinate volunteers and businesses, as well as generate coverage in local media. 
 If the project is a community garden, for example, Elations could help enlist nurseries to donate plants. Also, naturally, brand representatives will be on hand with product samples for creaky knees.
 Boomers have the highest volunteer rate of any age group, at 33.2 percent, compared with a national average of 29 percent, according to the Corporation for National and Community Service, a federal agency.
 And 46 percent of boomers were on a social media network in 2009, up from 30 percent in 2007, according to eMarketer, a research firm. Census data, which defines boomers as those born from 1946 to 1964, says they account for about 25 percent of the United States population.
 A television commercial for Elations that will be introduced in July, by Carrafiello Diehl & Associates of Irvington, N.Y., begins with a woman saying, ''With my stiff joints, it's the little things that get me.'' The ad shows women walking, gardening and climbing out of bed, and concludes with a tagline, ''Everyday ... made easier.''
 Older consumers ''don't want to see themselves represented in extreme situations like running marathons,'' Mr. Burton said. ''They just want to be able to garden and walk their dog without having pain.''
 Elations spent $10.4 million on advertising in 2009, while a competing brand, Joint Juice, spent $3.5 million, according to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP that tracks ad spending. 
 Joint Juice, which claims to be the original drinkable glucosamine supplement, was introduced in 2001 by an orthopedic surgeon. In contrast to Elations, it directs some marketing to athletes. 
 It recently introduced ads featuring Dean Karnazes, an ultramarathoner whose feats include running 135 miles across Death Valley in 120-degree heat. Print ads depict him running while speech balloons like those in comic strips emanate from his joints, with one knee saying ''Wheee!'' the other saying ''Uh-huh!'' and an elbow saying ''Yippee!''
 Darcy Horn, director of brand marketing at Joint Juice, said the ad, by Eleven of San Francisco, will appear in Runner's World magazine, but that most Joint Juice marketing caters to older consumers in decidedly lower impact activities.
 ''We have a secondary target who are endurance athletes and any runners who tax their joints, but our primary target is 45 and older,'' Ms. Horn said. New print ads aimed at older consumers also have speech balloons emanating from ecstatic joints, but feature older actors golfing, playing tennis or gardening. The ads appear in publications like AARP The Magazine and Arthritis Today. 
 General Nutrition Centers, the vitamin and supplement retailer, also is stepping up efforts to appeal to middle-aged and older consumers. It plans to introduce a line called GNC Longevity Factors in August.
 ''We think there are opportunities beyond joint products with boomers, who are very affluent and very fitness-oriented,'' said Beth J. Kaplan, chief marketing and merchandising officer at GNC. The line, which will be advertised in publications like Prevention and AARP The Magazine beginning in September, will feature supplements that aim to improve balance, agility, vision, energy, heart function and more. 
 Asked how the packaging might differ for the line, Ms. Kaplan said, ''We made sure the packaging font is big enough, and that the performance benefits are very legible and readable.''
 Elations, too, may expand.
 ''We view ourselves over time becoming a boomer lifestyle brand,'' said Mr. Burton, from Elations. ''We're looking at where we go next after joints -- will it be bone health, heart health, anti-aging, memory? What's the right next move?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elations is sponsoring a contest called Boomers Building a Better America to promote its glucosamine and chondroitin drink and powder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); AGING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CENSUS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); ATHLETES (63%); GYMNASTICS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (51%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%); CARRAFIELLO-DIEHL & ASSOCIATES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



402 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL UPDATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: SCOTLAND: A New Study Presents a Grim Picture Of the State of Health in Scotland

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Scotland, home of the deep-fried Mars bar and caffeine-fired Buckfast Tonic Wine, has a huge number of people ''living dangerously,'' according to a national study released last week. 
 The survey of 6,574 Scots found that two-thirds were overweight, two-thirds were physically inactive and more than half had a poor diet. 
 Over all, 55 percent of people in the country had three or more of five risk factors for an early death: obesity, inactivity, smoking, having more than two drinks a day and eating fewer than five daily servings of fruit or vegetables. 
 Scots did worse than Americans in similar surveys, the authors said, as well as worse than Canadians, Dutch, New Zealanders, Swiss and Finns. However, ''we weren't necessarily worse than England,'' said the study's lead author, Dr. David I. Conway, a public health expert at the University of Glasgow Dental School. 
 The study -- an analysis of data in the 2003 Scottish Health Survey -- was published in the journal BMC Public Health. [Findings from the same survey, on secondhand smoke and mental health, are reported in Vital Signs on this page.]
 People who were poor, had little education, were unemployed or had unskilled jobs were more likely to have more risk factors, it found.
 Other researchers have noted what is called the ''Scottish effect,'' Dr. Conway said -- Scots in poor neighborhoods tend to die younger than people in similar neighborhoods in England and Wales. It's not clear what, ''but there's something else in the Scottish psyche,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS FURLONG/GETTY IMAGES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (90%); OBESITY (77%); SMOKING (76%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (75%); WRITERS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); DENTISTRY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (95%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WALES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



403 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Fed Study Suggests Rates Will Stay at Record Lows Until '12

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Given high unemployment and low inflation, the Federal Reserve is likely to wait until 2012 before it starts to raise interest rates, a new Fed research paper states.
 The paper, released Monday by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, does not represent the official position of the central bank, whose governors have declined to specify when they might begin to raise rates. The benchmark short-term interest rate, known as the federal funds rate, has been essentially zero since December 2008, and most economists estimate that the Fed will increase it earlier than 2012.
 But the paper, by Glenn D. Rudebusch, a senior vice president and associate director of research at the San Francisco Fed, is notable for its plainspoken conclusion. It could carry added significance because Janet L. Yellen, the president of the San Francisco Fed, is President Obama's nominee to be vice chairwoman of the central bank. 
 ''Fed staff economists rarely come so close to making specific forecasts of -- or recommendations for -- monetary policy, but I suspect Glenn's views are shared by many others on the staff,'' said Joseph E. Gagnon, a former Fed economist and now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
 Mr. Rudebusch concluded from Fed decisions over the last two decades that there was a statistical relationship between core consumer price inflation and the gap between actual unemployment and the natural, or normal, rate of unemployment. 
 Given that relationship, as the recession worsened and inflation slowed in 2009, the Fed in theory should have lowered the federal funds rate by another 5 percent, Mr. Rudebusch wrote. In reality, since the Fed had already hit what it calls the ''zero lower bound,'' this was impossible; the central bank left its target range for the fed funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent.
 ''To deliver future monetary stimulus consistent with the past-- and ignoring the zero lower bound -- the funds rate would be negative until late 2012,'' Mr. Rudebusch wrote. ''In practice, this suggests little need to raise the funds rate target above its zero lower bound anytime soon.'' 
 Mr. Rudebusch sought to address several objections, so far voiced by a minority of Fed policy makers, to keeping the federal funds rate near zero. 
 If the rate were raised too soon, it would be hard to reverse course, whereas if tightening is started too late, the Fed could catch up by raising rates at a rapid pace, he argued.
 And while a few Fed officials have argued that extraordinarily low interest rates could lead to new price bubbles, or excessive leverage and speculation by banks, Mr. Rudebusch argued that the relationship between short-term interest rates and financial imbalances was ''quite erratic and poorly understood,'' noting that Japan had very low interest rates for about 15 years without those problems.
 In addition, Mr. Rudebusch said the federal funds rate was less central than in the past because the Fed has been buying mortgage bonds and Treasury securities to hold down long-term rates. 
 ''Changes in long-term interest rates have much larger effects on the economy than equal-sized changes in short-term interest rates,'' he wrote. 
 Assuming that the Fed holds onto the roughly $2 trillion in mortgage-backed securities and Treasury debt on its books, the Fed would not need to start raising rates until the beginning of 2012, he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



404 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Aiming at Rivals, Starbucks Will Offer Free Wi-Fi

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Many coffee shops try to discourage people from buying a cup of coffee and then lingering for hours to use the free Internet access. Starbucks will soon encourage them to stay as long as they want. 
 The company said on Monday that as of July 1, its stores in the United States would offer free Wi-Fi, via AT&T, that anyone can reach with a single click. In case customers run out of distractions on the Web, Starbucks is giving them even more reason to sit and browse, offering free online articles, music, videos and local information through a partnership with Yahoo. 
 Starbucks has been squeezed lately by competition from both independent specialty coffee shops, which have long offered free Wi-Fi, and big chains like McDonald's, which added it this year. 
 ''Starbucks hit back,'' said Chris Brogan, president of New Marketing Labs, a social media marketing agency, who blogs about working on the go. ''They said, 'Not only do we have free Wi-Fi, but we're going to offer this huge raft of digital products you can get while you're here, and you like our coffee better anyway.' '' 
 Howard Schultz, chief executive of Starbucks, who made the announcement at a conference in New York, described it as a way to bridge the online world and real-world coffee outlets. 
 Of course, people have been bridging those worlds for years, using coffee shops as pseudo-offices by bringing their laptops and borrowing free Internet connections. But Starbucks has never offered unlimited free Internet access. 
 Customers who bought and registered a Starbucks card and used it in the last month have been able to use the Web for two hours, after a somewhat complicated log-in process. Cardholders who wanted to use the Web for more than two hours paid $3.99 for another two-hour session, and customers without cards who wanted to go online faced the same charge for an initial two-hour session. 
 Starbucks is making the change as many coffeehouses experiment with ways to cut off squatters who browse and do not spend. Some post signs asking people to continue buying food and drinks if they stay, while the more aggressive ones cover their power outlets with tape so people cannot charge their laptops.
 Other coffeehouse owners say Wi-Fi detracts from the atmosphere they are trying to foster.
 Four Barrel Coffee in San Francisco has no Wi-Fi or power outlets for customer use. ''We all have had experiences of working at cafes where the laptops just took over, and it started to feel more like a library,'' said Jodi Geren, head of operations for Four Barrel. ''We just really feel like it's important for people to talk to each other.'' 
 Those who bring laptops to Starbucks now average an hour of Wi-Fi use, and the company does not expect that the free access and content will make people linger longer, said Stephen Gillett, chief information officer at Starbucks and general manager of a unit called Digital Ventures, which will oversee the new offerings. He said that Starbucks purposely kept video and music clips short. 
 The coffee chain is catering in part to people who are out of work and need a place to perfect their resumes or do freelance jobs. In January, the company announced that same-store sales increased 4 percent after months of steady declines. Starbucks attributes the improvement, which came before consumer spending rebounded as a whole, in part to its role as an office for the unemployed. 
 The new partnership with Yahoo, which is called the Starbucks Digital Network, will include an online section on business and careers that will include tools for people searching for jobs or writing resumes, Mr. Gillett said. 
 ''We expect this to be a very versatile tool for people who are using Starbucks for what we call the third place, between home and work,'' he said. 
 Customers will also get free access to paid Web sites, like those of The Wall Street Journal and Zagat, free iTunes downloads and previews of not-yet-released movies and albums. They will see local content based on the coffee shop's location, like news from Patch, AOL's local news site, check-ins on Foursquare and neighborhood photos on Flickr. 
 For publishers and Web sites, the free content will serve as a marketing tool, Mr. Gillett said, letting customers sample things they might be willing to pay for later. 
 The digital network could also serve as a virtual storefront, Mr. Brogan said. He imagines Starbucks using it to sell songs and virtual goods, or to offer loyalty points for online shopping. 
 ''If you have eight people sitting in a store for four hours on one cup of coffee, that's not moving revenue,'' he said. ''However, if that same group is there for four hours on one cup of coffee and buys 14 songs, that's sales.'' 
 Starbucks is not disclosing the terms of its agreements with the content providers, including whether they are paying Starbucks or sharing revenue if customers make purchases, said Tamra Strentz, a spokeswoman. 
 Many coffeehouses, including Grounded in the West Village, a storefront one block from a Starbucks, offer free Wi-Fi to differentiate themselves from Starbucks. 
 ''It's definitely been an attraction,'' said David Litman, the manager of Grounded. Still, he said he doubted that Wi-Fi at Starbucks would be a threat. ''This is a very neighborhood place -- there is a Starbucks on the next avenue, but people like to support us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A customer, Mosey Levy, at Starbucks in Manhattan. On July 1, customers will be able to browse the Internet with one click. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Starbucks says its customers will have free access to some paid Web sites, like Zagat, and previews of coming movies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM PENNINGTON/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE INTERNET ACCESS (92%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); MCDONALD'S CORP (83%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); MCD (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



405 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: The Fresh Tutu Brigade

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
If there is a heaven for people in the costume industry, it surely includes an infinite walk-in closet: one-stop shopping no matter the fabric, historical period or one-of-a-kind button needed.
 For Marc Happel, director of New York City Ballet's costume shop, reality is somewhat more challenging. He and his staff are charged with rebuilding costumes made years or decades ago, sometimes with materials that have long since gone out of style or production. Meanwhile, shrinking budgets, rising costs and an imperiled garment district make it increasingly difficult to keep City Ballet's vast repertory looking fresh. 
 With seven costume-intense premieres this season, Mr. Happel and his staff have been on creation overdrive. But the work of maintaining existing ballets never ends. Audiences will see one of the shop's major rebuilds this week in Balanchine's ''Scotch Symphony'' (1952), the costumes' lush black bodices, originally designed by the illustrious Barbara Karinska, remade after years of wear and tear.
 ''Different variations of the velvet have been used to alter them,'' Mr. Happel said, the repairs leading to a mishmash of not-quite-right fabrics. But replacing the bodices meant the sleeves and handmade trim had to be redone too, with special attention paid to Karinska's detail work. ''It just became a much bigger project than initially we thought,'' Mr. Happel said.
 In the best of times, securing the right materials is quite a task, and shoppers like Tracey Herman, Mr. Happel's assistant, delight in the thrill of the hunt. But over the last 15 years or so, as clothing manufacturing has shifted overseas and rising Manhattan rents have forced small businesses out, she and her colleagues have had fewer places to look.
 ''It used to be there were 10 button stores you would go to, and now there are two,'' she said. ''What the stores are selling more of tends to be mass produced, imported, not as high quality, and maybe catering to a different fashion sensibility.''
 You might think that the Internet would be a paradise for costume makers and that new technologies would yield ingenious ways to recreate extinct patterns and dyes. Digital printing does allow for the cost-effective replication of old hand-painted patterns on fabric, sites like eBay occasionally yield finds, and authentic specialty items can be found on the Web. But the industry remains a largely local, personal one.
 ''It's a very 19th-century art form,'' said Jared Aswegan, owner of Barbara Matera, which makes costumes for performing arts groups ranging from circuses to American Ballet Theater. There's no substitute, he said, for holding material in your hands. ''Actually being able to see it and feel it and understand what it is that you're getting, you really can't get a sense of that on the Internet.''
 What you see online isn't always what you get in person, which leads to further delays. And time is a luxury costumiers seldom have, especially midseason. Mr. Happel mentioned one business, on the brink of folding, that sells his shop many everyday supplies.
 ''We are a little freaked out by that, because that means now what we have to do is get stuff shipped from California,'' he said. No more sending a staff member down to 36th Street. 
 Of course, resourceful shoppers have their secret stashes. Ms. Herman remains in touch with many of the merchants who closed their doors permanently, no longer able to afford Manhattan. Some of them keep stock at home. (Only a very few moved to other boroughs.) 
 ''Now we just call them, and we either get a box in the mail or we don't,'' she explained, but only as long as those supplies last. And then? ''That's a good question,'' she said, laughing. ''Certainly you can always get things made, but it becomes at what price and are the tools and the material even available anymore?''
 Trades go out of style too. Marcia Ceppos, who runs Tinsel Trading, which her grandfather started in 1933, said that younger generations aren't particularly interested in running family businesses. (Ms. Ceppos has no children and is unsure of Tinsel's future.) And Mr. Aswegan is beginning an internship program for skills like sewing and embroidery, which he says are ''heading onto the endangered species list'' as people look to more lucrative careers.
 The sour economy has only exacerbated these trends. Many remaining garment district stores are reinventing themselves to stay afloat: Tinsel Trading has diversified its stock, while Mood Fabrics has benefited from its association with the television show ''Project Runway'' and started its own production company, Preview Textile Group, to better cater to the needs of small, belt-tightening designers. 
 The strategy, said Eric Sauma, one of the owners of the family-run Mood, is to focus ''on our smaller designers, who just need small yardages, and be able to grow with them.'' He noted that many of his smallest customers were bringing production back to the United States -- cause for hope, he said. 
 Costume shop budgets are shrinking too. Ballet Theater, which outsources all of its costume work, started the Costume Fund in 2003 for restoration purposes. Mr. Happel said he was hoping for big donors for ambitious rebuilding projects like ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' which still has its original 1962 Karinska-designed costumes.
 Meanwhile, the show must go on, and costumiers have many masters to please. Beyond designers and choreographers, balletomanes have long memories and strong ideas about what a costume should look like. And dancers often become attached to, and even slightly superstitious about, old costumes, preferring to deal with disrepair and sweat stains than to break in new versions.
 Yet they can see the difference. On a recent Thursday morning the corps member Faye Arthurs, who was being fitted for a new ''Brahms-Schoenberg Quartet'' costume, exclaimed with pleasure over the subtle range of colors in her new tutu. 
 Mr. Happel nodded in somewhat harried agreement before hurrying off to a storage closet, where row upon row of diaphanous, bejeweled costume hung. 
 ''I walk through here a lot by myself,'' he said. ''It's exciting, you see the history of this company in all its costumes. It's also frustrating, because I see all there is to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A seamstress working on a new City Ballet costume, based on an old one. (C1)
 Marc Happel, costume director of New York City Ballet, said he hoped for big donors for ambitious rebuilding projects. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); FABRICS (90%); COSTUME SHOPS (78%); THEATER (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); APPAREL MFG (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



406 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Greece's Rating Is Cut, And the Markets Ebb

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street slipped on Monday after Greece's debt was downgraded, the latest development in the deepening challenges of the euro zone countries.
 Major indexes in the United States had opened higher and were up throughout the day until late in the afternoon, when the rating agency Moody's cut Greece's credit rating to junk. Near the end of the market session, all three indexes lost their momentum, though the Nasdaq managed to finish the day slightly higher.
 Analysts said the day fell into the pattern of the last several months, in which the market weathered the turbulence of uncertainty over the debt crisis. Greece had already been downgraded by Standard & Poor's. 
 ''It was not a huge surprise that Moody's is following suit,'' said Win Thin, a currency strategist for Brown Brothers Harriman. ''But it is another reminder of the negative news stream coming out of Europe.''
 Greece's rating was cut four notches to Ba1, the highest level of junk status. Moody's said in a statement that its decision was based on the strengths and risks of the financial rescue package developed by countries in the euro zone and the International Monetary Fund.
 Euro zone countries and the I.M.F. this year agreed to a bailout package of 750 billion euros, or $950 billion, to help European countries deal with the sovereign debt crisis. 
 While the package ''eliminates any near-term risk of a liquidity-driven default,'' a senior analyst at Moody's, Sarah Carlson, said, ''the macroeconomic and implementation risks associated with the program are substantial.''
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 20.18 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,190.89. The Dow had been up almost 100 points at one time on Monday. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.18 percent, or 1.97 points, at 1,089.63, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 0.36 points, to 2,243.96. Moody's made its announcement after the markets had closed in Europe.
 Energy shares that had recently been hurt by the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico were brought into focus again on Monday, when BP's board discussed the demands by the United States to suspend dividend payments to shareholders until the costs of the spill are addressed. Exxon Mobil slid 0.8 percent to $61.37, while Anadarko Petroleum rose 0.5 percent to $42. In New York trading, BP depositary shares were down 9.7 percent.
 ''You are hard-pressed to cite any one piece of news today as a catalyst for direction,'' said Joe Battipaglia, the market strategist for the private client group of Stifel Nicolaus. ''BP is not a new story,'' he said.
 Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist for Channel Capital Research Institute, said many traders seemed to be winding down their positions toward the end of the day, probably leading to a lack of liquidity.
 ''People probably don't want to hold positions overnight,'' he added, leaving themselves open to developments out of the European Union.
 The euro advanced during the day, but the bond spreads for Greece, Portugal and Spain widened. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 5/32, to 102 2/32. The yield rose to 3.25 percent, from 3.23 percent late Friday.
 Financial stocks fell. Bank of America slipped 1.22 percent, to $15.41, while JPMorgan Chase dropped 2 percent, to $37.33. 
 Still, corporate balance sheets are providing a strong foundation for companies, analysts said.
 Stanley Nabi, chief strategist for the Silvercrest Asset Management Group, said that, in general, he thought the market would continue to move higher, albeit in a ''jagged fashion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); EURO ZONE (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DIVIDENDS (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); OIL SPILLS (64%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (64%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (64%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); XOM (NYSE) (52%); APC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (51%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%); GULF OF MEXICO (66%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



407 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: State That Backs Filmmakers Says Cannibal Is Deal-Breaker

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When Andrew van den Houten got a letter two weeks ago rejecting his request for Michigan public money to help finance his latest horror movie, ''The Woman,'' it came with an admonition about the state's good name.
 ''This film is unlikely to promote tourism in Michigan or to present or reflect Michigan in a positive light,'' wrote Janet Lockwood, Michigan's film commissioner. Ms. Lockwood particularly objected to ''this extreme horror film's subject matter, namely realistic cannibalism; the gruesome and graphically violent depictions described in the screenplay; and the explicit nature of the script.'' 
 The easy money is not quite so easy any more.
 Among the states that began underwriting film and television production with heavy subsidies over the past half-decade -- 44 states had some sort of incentives by last year, 28 of them involving tax credits -- at least a handful are giving new scrutiny to a question that was politely overlooked in the early excitement: What kind of films are taxpayers paying for? 
 Less than two years ago, Mr. van den Houten became one of the first to take advantage of Michigan's generous subsidy, which pays for up to 42 percent of a movie's cost, when he made ''Offspring,'' a cannibalism-themed horror picture that was later distributed by the Ghost House Underground direct-to-video line and has been showing on NBC Universal's Chiller TV network.
 ''The Woman,'' a sequel to ''Offspring,'' is a little less horrific, Mr. van den Houten said in an interview. ''We had babies in the first movie,'' he offered.
 Still, ''The Woman'' proved too much for Ms. Lockwood. In rejecting the film for public money, she described its financing arrangements as ''questionable'' -- a claim disputed by Mr. van den Houten, who said his Moderncine company has been careful to pay its bills and has other backing for a budget of less than $1 million. But she also invoked a provision of Michigan's law that says movies underwritten by the state should help promote it as a tourist destination.
 Whether such payments ultimately benefit a state and its economy has been the subject of ferocious debate. Some monitors of the programs contend that the supposed benefits from job creation and tourism do not make up for the monies spent. The Michigan State Senate Fiscal Agency estimates the subsidies will amount to about $132 million in the next year. 
 Content requirements touch a hot button in Hollywood, where filmmakers are on alert for anything that reeks of censorship.
 ''They're never going to do that to a major studio film, because it would create too much of a firestorm,'' said Michael Shamberg, a producer whose recent credits include ''Extraordinary Measures.''
 In Texas, the verdict is still out on ''Machete,'' a thriller from the filmmaker Robert Rodriguez, set for release by 20th Century Fox in September.
 In May, Mr. Rodriguez used a mock trailer to promote the movie as a revenge story targeted at Arizona in the wake of its new anti-illegal immigrant law. Conservative bloggers and others then called on the Texas film commission to deny it support under a rule that says the state does not have to pay for projects that include ''inappropriate content or content that portrays Texas or Texans in a negative fashion.''
 Bob Hudgins, the film commission's director, said he had never yet denied financing to a film under the provision -- though he warned the makers of a picture about the Waco raid that they need not apply because of what Mr. Hudgins saw as inaccuracies about the event and people connected with it.
 Mr. Hudgins said would reserve judgment about ''Machete'' until he sees it. Texas, like many states, doesn't pay its share until after a film is finished. 
 ''This is tough for filmmakers to understand, but this is not about their right to make the movie,'' Mr. Hudgins explained. ''It's about the public investing in it.''
 In an e-mail message, Mr. Rodriguez, who is still finishing ''Machete,'' said the objections have come from people who do not know what is in the movie.
 ''The film is not about Texas specifically and it most certainly does not paint Texas in a negative light,'' he wrote. 
 In Florida, a recent legislative proposal to bar a special tax credit for family entertainment from films or shows that exhibit ''nontraditional family values'' was dropped after it was widely criticized as seeming to exclude gay characters.
 Many states, including Tennessee and Georgia, have no explicit provision regarding the tenor of films they underwrite (although no state will subsidize pornography, and many disallow incentives for commercials or certain other formats).
 Still, officials in Georgia plan to memorialize an understanding that the state will not pay for a picture that is likely to be rated NC-17. ''We really need to go ahead and put that in the rules,'' said Bill Thompson, the deputy commissioner for the economic development department's film, music and digital entertainment division.
 Hollywood has long dealt with stringent controls on content imposed by government entities like the Central Intelligence Agency and branches of the military when they offer access, equipment or other help. 
 ''The Pentagon's policy is they will assist film and television if it shows the military in a positive light, and, if not, they'll assist in changing the script to put it in a positive light,'' said David L. Robb, who wrote the book ''Operation Hollywood: How the Pentagon Shapes and Censors the Movies.''
 That state governments are also tightening their approach was probably inevitable, given the financial squeeze on governments. 
 ''Everybody's looking at everything so much more carefully,'' said Jeff Begun, a partner in the Incentives Office, a company in Santa Monica, Calif., that advises filmmakers.
 Pennsylvania has not yet rejected a film for violating its stipulation that publicly supported movies should ''tend to foster a positive image'' of the state. But it might.
 ''That would only come into play if I had two applications at some moment, and only had enough funding left for one,'' said Jane Saul, the director of the Pennsylvania Film Office. Pennsylvania helped underwrite ''The Road,'' a post-apocalyptic story that was distributed last year by the Weinstein Company, and which, like Mr. van den Houten's new film, was rife with cannibals, child-eating and otherwise.
 Ken Droz, the communications consultant for the Michigan Film Office, declined to discuss ''The Woman.'' But he noted that Michigan had approved 160 applications out of 320 submitted to date, after measuring each against criteria that include the potential for creating economic development.
 ''This is not an entitlement program,'' Mr. Droz said.
 Mr. van den Houten, whose company is based in New York, said his plan is to move ''The Woman'' to Massachusetts, where the subsidy program has no apparent strictures on extreme horror.
 But he might want to hurry.
 ''All the states will be looking at this as they begin to tighten their belts,'' said Marshall Moore, director of the Utah Film Commission. His state has unabashedly declined to fund pictures that, as Mr. Moore put it, you could not take the governor to see.
 Of the others, he predicted: ''They're going to ask, why are we giving money to that movie?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Viggo Mortensen and Kodi Smit-McPhee in ''The Road.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAVIER AGUIRRESAROBE/WEINSTEIN COMPANY) (A1)
Andrew van den Houten in Michigan filming ''Offspring.'' The state denied him public money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MODERNCINE)
 Pollyanna McIntosh in the horror movie ''Offspring'' (2009)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORROR FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); SPORTS & ENTERTAINMENT INSURANCE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TOURISM (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); JOB CREATION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) MICHIGAN, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



408 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Anger With Political Class Grows Among Iraqi Public

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID; Riyadh Mohammed, Khalid D. Ali and Duraid Adnan contributed reporting

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Even as Iraq's Parliament convened Monday, three long months of court challenges, recounts and disqualifications after it was elected, Saif Ali, a shopkeeper, was venting his anger at Iraqi politicians. 
 It was 119 degrees, and he had only a few hours of electricity. 
 ''Frankly, the politicians are just wearing us out,'' he said. ''Unemployment? Electricity? Housing? Since 2003 -- for seven years now -- no one has solved it yet.''
 His brow sweaty, Mr. Ali shook his head. ''Even the water is dirty.''
 Lawmakers hailed Monday's 18-minute session as a milestone, however symbolic, in forging a government. Perhaps. But officials, diplomats and politicians themselves worry that the frustration of Mr. Ali and others may pose, for the first time, a bigger threat to that fledgling political process than sectarian strife or a diminished but resilient insurgency. 
 Except for the Kurdish parties and the followers of Moktada al-Sadr, a populist Shiite cleric, few politicians have any real grass-roots support to help in dealing with an increasingly angry public that has welcomed better security but now demands better lives. In almost any conversation, cynicism runs deep toward a political class imbued with an opportunism many see as common to almost every Iraqi government since the monarchy was overthrown in 1958.
 ''There is clearly a divide,'' said Ryan C. Crocker, the former American ambassador to Iraq and a longtime diplomat in the Middle East.
 He described an ''elitist authoritarianism that basically ignores the people.''
 ''Right now, what I'm concerned about is the persistence of the political culture in which the governors simply do not really care about the governed,'' he said. ''Saddam didn't invent it. This is part of a persistent Iraqi political culture, and it did not produce a happy state after 1958 at any point, and I would worry that it will not now.''
 Iraq's politics have proved prone to deadlock and brinkmanship; the last government took six months to form. But Monday's session stood as a microcosm of a tangled political process in which nearly every step, procedural or otherwise, is contested.
 Kurdish lawmakers insisted that the oath be read in both Arabic and Kurdish. (It was, eventually.) None of Iraq's leaders spoke at the session because, politicians said, their opponents had demanded equal time. Loyalists of Mr. Sadr, whose militia twice fought the American military in 2004, threatened to walk out of the session if Christopher R. Hill, the American ambassador, attended. (In the end, they did not.)
 ''You can expect anything at any time,'' said Omar al-Mashhadani, a spokesman for the departing Parliament speaker, Ayad al-Samarrai, shaking his head.
 From Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki on down, politicians are defensive about the protracted negotiations, even as they acknowledge the public's growing anger.
 Real issues are at stake, they say -- namely, who will govern Iraq as the United States withdraws nearly 90,000 troops by the end of 2011. Whatever coalition eventually coalesces will help determine the formula by which the Shiite majority governs a country deeply divided by sect and ethnicity. The eventual prime minister will face attempts to shift power from his office to the cabinet and Parliament, delineating the state's authority.
 The plethora of factions makes the process harder, too. Everyone is negotiating with everyone, with varying degrees of sincerity and hardly any success.
 ''There is no real progress up to now, nothing real,'' said Adel Abdul Mahdi, a vice president and candidate for prime minister. ''We are still at a standstill.''
 Some people, though, have angrily termed the negotiations theater, and there is indeed an element of that. Indecision is so ingrained that President Jalal Talabani, who has the right to convene Parliament, issued a statement soliciting opinions on the date he should choose. Mr. Maliki's Shiite allies smuggled his Sunni opponents a video that seemed to undermine Mr. Maliki's argument to form the next government. 
 Then there is Ayad Allawi, the frequently flying leader of a secular and Sunni Muslim coalition that won the most seats in the March 7 election.
 ''I challenge anyone to tell me that Allawi has stayed more than seven days in Iraq since the election,'' said Ali al-Mousawi, a spokesman for Mr. Maliki's government. Mr. Allawi's aides defend his travel as necessary to help repair Iraq's relations with its neighbors.
 Mr. Abdul Mahdi wondered whether the very clubbiness of the politicians made it harder to make decisions. As a boy, he swam with Ahmad Chalabi in the pool of Mr. Chalabi's father. Both attended the same school as Mr. Allawi. In exile in the 1970s, Mr. Talabani and Mr. Abdul Mahdi circulated in the same Palestinian circles in Lebanon.
 ''Because of friendlier relations, courtesies, sometimes real issues are not raised,'' Mr. Abdul Mahdi said. ''You think your friend is making a mistake, and you can't be so frank with him.''
 His sense of generosity is not shared beyond the Green Zone, where everyone from Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the country's most powerful Shiite cleric, to merchants along the barricaded streets of Baghdad has warned of the discontent. The refrain of their conversation is masalih, or ''interests'' -- and politicians are working for their own.
 ''I'm worn out, the weather is hot, business is bad, and so is the government,'' shouted Mohammed Ali, a merchant along Palestine Street in Baghdad, as he wagged his finger. ''The subject is over. That's it. Can I tell you anything more than that?''
 A deep current of conspiracy and suspicion runs through such sentiments, much like what was heard during the early days of the American occupation in 2003. Rarely are individual politicians blamed. Often it is the entire state, its institutions having failed to deliver the most basic services or to ameliorate the siege-like sense to the fortified city.
 ''They know our problems, but they don't care,'' said Alaa Sabah, shopping on a trash-filled street. ''The people who elected them? They don't figure into their thinking.''
 Mr. Hill, the ambassador, suggested that an angry public might force politicians to reach an agreement on a coalition sooner than they otherwise would have.
 ''They're going to have to solve that or be judged as having allowed their personal ambitions get in the way of the public's interests,'' he said.
 But like many others, Riyadh Mehdi simply saw a disconnect between government and the governed. The owner of a clothing store, he said he had no faith in the Parliament seated Monday.
 ''When they hand out the salaries, every single one of them will be there,'' he said. ''When there's a session on the problems of Iraq, you'll be able to count the number who attend with both hands. Seven, eight. They're there for money and power. That's it.''
 He paused, looking out at a sun-drenched street.
 ''I swear,'' he said, ''a monarchy would be better than this republic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: National Security Minister Sharwan al-Waili, left, and Ibrahim al-Jaafari, a former prime minister, at an interview on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



409 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Unfazed By Reality

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Imagine that you've got the gas pedal to the floor (or almost to the floor) as you try to get your vehicle to the top of a mountain, where the road will level off. You've made real progress, but the vehicle is straining and wheezing. You're not there yet. 
 Why in the world would you lift your foot off the gas and risk rolling back down the mountain? 
 Something like this is happening in the fight to haul the United States out of the depths of the worst recession since the Great Depression. The deficit hawks -- policy makers from the very same crowd whose crazy theories and rampant irresponsibility got us into this terrible fix in the first place -- want the United States to step off of the stimulus gas, a move that might very well stall the current, extremely fragile recovery.
 The latest struggle on this front has to do with the crucially important issue of federal relief to state and local governments, which are facing nightmarish budget scenarios. Consider the following comment from General Davie Jr., the chief of the Natomas Unified School District in Sacramento County, Calif.:
 ''We made the decision to close our eight elementary school libraries with a heavy heart, but our budget situation is so dire that we had no choice. We've also cut all of our health aides, eliminated busing, shortened our school year by five days, increased K-3 class sizes to 30 to 1, and issued layoff notices to about 30 percent of our teachers, classified staff and administration.''
 Similar decisions, potentially devastating to the lives of individuals and families and poisonous to the effort to rebuild the economy, are being made by state and local officials from one coast to the other. State and local governments are obliged by law in nearly all cases to balance their budgets, but their revenues have fallen off a cliff because of the long economic downturn. Thus, they are slashing away at important government services, laying off workers and raising fees and taxes.
 For the federal government to stand by like a disinterested onlooker as this carnage plays out would be crazy. 
 President Obama has called on Congress to provide substantial relief to these localities to ward off the harmful impact of the budget cuts. In a letter to Congressional leaders of both parties, he said he was concerned that ''the lingering economic damage'' of the financial downturn ''has left a mounting employment crisis at the state and local level that could set back the pace of our economic recovery.''
 He urged quick action to prevent the budget cuts from leading to ''massive layoffs'' of teachers, police officers, firefighters and other public employees.
 Congress had already been considering legislation that would provide something approaching $50 billion in aid to states: $24 billion to offset increased costs in the states' share of Medicaid payments and $23 billion for teachers' salaries. But the constant chatter from Republicans and increasing numbers of Democrats about rising federal budget deficits has stymied those efforts.
 The concerns about the effect that this aid might have on long-term federal deficits are misplaced, because the effect would be barely noticeable -- if at all. But if Congress doesn't act, the impact in the here and now will be both powerful and painful. The secretary of education, Arne Duncan, has warned that the nation could face an ''education catastrophe'' if the federal government fails to provide assistance to prevent the loss of 100,000 to 300,000 public school jobs. 
 Nicholas Johnson, the director of the State Fiscal Project at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, told me in an interview on Monday: ''We've already seen in the first quarter of this year that state budget actions lopped half a percentage point off of G.D.P. growth, knocking it from 3 1/2 percent down to 3 percent. To put it in terms of jobs, the actions of state and local governments right now are taking a little over 20,000 jobs out of the economy each month. That's what it was in May, and there is every reason to believe it will continue unless the states get some assistance.''
 When you put people out of work, you cripple the quality of life of their entire families. When you start dismantling the public schools and driving teachers from the classrooms, you damage -- and in many instances cripple -- the lifetime prospects of untold numbers of pupils. When you undermine a recovery that is as fragile as this one, which is as fragile as a crate of eggs, you undermine the economic health of the entire nation.
 These are the kinds of disasters that the deficit hawks, secure in their ideological dream world, are quite happily prepared to live with. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); RECESSION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (66%); LIBRARIES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



410 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Obama, on Visit, Tries to Lift Economy and Mood

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and HENRY FOUNTAIN; Helene Cooper reported from Alabama, and Henry Fountain from New York.

 BODY:
THEODORE, Ala. -- President Obama on Monday stepped up his efforts to limit the economic fallout from the oil spill, announcing steps to assure consumers that seafood from the Gulf of Mexico is safe and promoting tourism in the region as BP, under pressure from the White House, agreed to accelerate the cleanup.
 On his fourth trip to the region since the rig explosion that set off the leak, Mr. Obama visited Mississippi and Alabama, a day before he was to deliver an address from the Oval Office in his most visible step yet to show that his administration is in command of what he has called the nation's worst environmental disaster. 
 Responding to a request by the administration over the weekend, BP announced a plan to siphon 40,000 to 53,000 barrels of oil a day from its leaking well by the end of June, up from the current 15,000 barrels a day. 
 Under the plan, which essentially pushes BP's containment schedule forward by two weeks, the company will also bring in more vessels and other backup equipment to cope with bad weather or unforeseen problems. BP's optimism about its previous efforts to deal with the situation has frequently proven unfounded.
 BP's board met on Monday to consider a White House demand that it establish an account to pay spill claims, as investors and officials raised questions about the company's long-term financial strength. 
 The board did not make a final decision about the account, pending a meeting between its chairman and Mr. Obama in Washington on Wednesday. 
 The company's $10.5 billion annual dividend has become a point of contention, with a host of critics in the United States saying that it should not be paying out profits to stockholders when huge cleanup costs still loom and when fishermen, oil workers and small-business owners say they are having trouble getting compensation from the company. While BP has billions of dollars in cash flow that presumably can cover the costs, there is concern about its future. 
 Internal BP documents, including an e-mail message calling the well drilled by the Deepwater Horizon a ''nightmare,'' show a pattern of risky choices made to save time and money in the weeks before the disastrous April 20 blowout, according to a letter sent to the oil company by the leaders of a House committee on Monday.
 The committee leaders cited five areas in which the company had made decisions that ''increased the danger of a catastrophic well,'' including choosing the design of the well, preparing for and testing the cement job and assuring that the well was properly sealed on the top. 
 Taken together, the documents offer the strongest case yet that BP bears much of the responsibility for the explosion that killed 11 workers and the still-unchecked leaking of millions of gallons of oil into the gulf.
 Some of the decisions appeared to violate industry guidelines and were made despite warnings from BP's own employees and outside contractors, said Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, and Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, the leaders of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. They sent their letter to BP's chief executive, Tony Hayward, in advance of his testimony on Thursday before the committee.
 An investigation suggested that delays in completing the well ''created pressure to take shortcuts,'' the letter said.
 After a meeting with Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana in Gulfport, Miss., Mr. Obama urged Americans to come down to visit the area's beaches, many of which were virtually deserted on Monday. ''There's still a lot of opportunity for visitors to come down here,'' Mr. Obama said after the meeting at the Coast Guard station in Gulfport. 
 The president made a point of eating local seafood for a lunch in Gulfport, where he chatted with a hotel owner who told him that her business was down 40 percent, and then again for dinner in Orange Beach, Ala., where he ordered crab claws, crawfish tails, ribs and nachos.
 ''Seafood from the gulf today is safe to eat,'' he said earlier in Theodore, where he said government agencies were increasing their monitoring of seafood processors and of fish caught outside of areas where fishing has already been banned because of the spill. ''But we need to make sure it stays that way.''
 Mr. Hayward, the BP executive, is sure to come under intense questioning on Thursday when he appears before a subcommittee of the House energy and commerce committee.
 The committee leaders said that shortly before the blowout, BP engineers chose a faster, less expensive design for the final string of casing, the steel pipe that lines the well. The design that was chosen, which used a so-called tapered string, cost about $7 million to $10 million less than another method. But the tapered string afforded less protection if the cementing job were poor and gas were to rise up the well, the congressmen wrote. The New York Times reported on the casing design previously.
 In an exchange of e-mail messages in the week before the blowout, BP drilling engineers discussed the casing plans, with one, Brian P. Morel, asking another for a quick review of one schematic diagram. ''Sorry for the late notice,'' Mr. Morel wrote, ''this has been nightmare well which has everyone all over the place.''
 Time and money were both concerns, the House chairmen wrote, because the well was behind schedule. A problem in March had forced the company to apply for a ''bypass,'' in which the well is drilled around the problem area. By the day of the blowout, the Deepwater Horizon, leased by BP from Transocean for about half a million dollars a day plus contractors' fees, was 43 days late for its next drilling location, the chairmen wrote.
 The choice of a tapered string meant that the well had only two barriers to upward gas flow that could cause a blowout: cement near the bottom of the well and a seal assembly near the top.
 In a letter to Rear Adm. James A. Watson, the government's on-scene commander of the spill cleanup, Doug Suttles, BP's chief operating officer, said that by Tuesday a drill ship, the Q4000, would be able to burn 5,000 barrels to 10,000 barrels of oil a day collected through pipes connected to the so-called choke line at the wellhead. 
 That would bring its capacity to 20,000 barrels to 28,000 barrels a day. A team of scientists assembled by the government has estimated the flow rate at 25,000 barrels to 30,000 barrels a day, but the team is working on new estimates that may be higher.
 By the end of the month, Mr. Suttles wrote, BP will add to the capacity by connecting a large flexible pipe to a second line at the wellhead, called the kill line. This oil would be collected by a ship that can handle 20,000 barrels to 25,000 barrels a day, bringing the total number of barrels collected daily to 40,000 to 53,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers performed a controlled burn of oil Sunday off Louisiana. President Obama is pressing BP to speed up the cleanup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN GARDNER/REUTERS)
 In Orange Beach, Ala., workers removed oil from the sand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SEAFOOD (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DIVIDENDS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); TOURISM (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



411 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: From Hotel Rivals to Allies

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Amid signs that their industry has finally turned a corner after two dark years, hotel executives have begun to plot strategies for better times ahead. But those strategies differ, depending on whether they are running a big chain or independent hotel. 
 Major chains like Marriott and Starwood are increasingly focusing on expanding abroad, as tight credit markets make it tough for developers to build hotels in the United States. They are also experimenting with teaming up with independent hoteliers, a strategy that departs from their core business of managing brands. 
 Though these relationships vary, the idea is that a chain welcomes independent hotels into the fold -- mainly by providing access to its reservation system and millions of loyalty program members -- in exchange for what is basically a franchise fee. But unlike franchisees, the hotels that sign onto the partnerships remain independent and do not have to meet rigid brand standards.
 The current financial climate has forced the hands of both the big chains, which have remained profitable even during the downturn, and the independent hotels, which have been struggling to survive without the deep pockets of their big competitors. Pairing up allows the chains to grow without building and the independents to attract more guests. 
 ''One of the reasons for this is the decline of construction,'' said Bjorn Hanson, a professor in the hospitality program at New York University. ''Public companies want to keep growing. A way to not dilute the brand is to create a separate group under the parent company umbrella.''
 While some hotel executives bristle at the umbrella brand image, it fits the stormy weather the industry just passed through -- though dark clouds still loom. 
 Occupancy rates in the United States, though starting to improve, are expected to end the year at 57 percent, about 6 points below the long-term average. Room rates are flat or declining, and the fragile economy is still damping travel.
 Mr. Hanson said those factors had made it more challenging for independent hotels to go it alone, despite the marketing advantages offered by the Internet. ''The reasons for staying independent continue to diminish,'' he said. ''But there are also more ways to be affiliated than ever before.''
 One of those is Marriott's Autograph Collection, which started in January with seven hotels that are owned by the Kessler Collection, including the Grand Bohemian Hotel in Asheville, N.C., and the Celebration Hotel in Orlando, Fla.
 ''There's kind of a Marriott way they do things, and I had some concerns about that,'' said Richard C. Kessler, the company's chairman. Like many independent hoteliers, he said he preferred offering guests a different experience when they traveled, as opposed to the chains' cookie-cutter standards. 
 The Autograph Collection hotels now show up when travelers search for lodging on Marriott.com and get promoted in Marriott e-mail. Even with the fee he pays Marriott, that placement is a lot cheaper than the 25 percent he pays when a guest books one of his hotels through an online travel agency, Mr. Kessler said. He also gets access to Marriott's procurement pipeline, saving on expenses like toilet paper.
 ''What I'm looking for is exposure for these properties,'' he said. ''The early results look promising and we're encouraged, but it's still too soon to tell if it's a single or a double or a home run.''
 While Marriott's Autograph Collection is just getting off the ground, Starwood's Luxury Collection, a similar concept in the luxury sphere, includes more than 75 hotels, mostly in foreign countries where independent hotels are more the norm. The Kimpton hotel group is based on a similar concept: it is a collection of 50 hotels, all managed but not necessarily owned by Kimpton, each with a distinct design and name.
 ''We're what we call an endorser brand,'' said Michael Depatie, Kimpton's chief executive.
 But no marriage of opposites has attracted more attention -- and speculation -- than Marriott's partnership with Ian Schrager to create an independent hotel brand called Edition.
 Last week, Bill Marriott, Marriott's chairman and chief executive, and Mr. Schrager, the hotel entrepreneur credited with starting the boutique hotel trend, met in New York to reveal that the first Edition hotel would open in October in Honolulu, on Waikiki Beach. A second Edition hotel will open in Istanbul this fall, with others to follow in Bangkok, Mexico City and Barcelona, Spain. 
 Although Edition was initially announced during flush times in 2007, three years later, the arrangement fits the current climate of economically driven pairings. Mr. Schrager would be hard pressed to get financing to develop projects on his own, and Marriott, having sat out the boutique hotel craze, needs a hipper offering in its portfolio. 
 Edition aims to be a departure for both Mr. Marriott and Mr. Schrager, who said it would create ''a new genre, the next phase in the story of lifestyle hotels.'' 
 ''We would call it boutique if everybody else wasn't calling their hotels boutique,'' he said.
 But for all their differences, it may be a sign of how much the two men have influenced each other that Mr. Schrager was more articulate in describing Edition's service goals (indifferent service being a criticism at his earlier hotels), while Mr. Marriott best captured the new brand's aesthetic.
 ''It's sort of a modern definition of service; it's not obsequious,'' Mr. Schrager said. ''We don't really care if your coffee gets served in the finest sterling silver, we just really care if it gets served quickly and it's good and it's hot.''
 Mr. Marriott then summed up where Edition was headed (mostly abroad) and the mood it hoped to capture. ''These are all cities that are exotic, romantic and vibrant,'' he said. ''We're going to fun places people like to visit, and when they go they want to have a good time.'' 
 If the two men pull off their heady ambitions, their main achievement may be proving that independent hoteliers and big brands can co-exist -- to the benefit of guests.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Marriott, the chairman of Marriott, left, and Ian Schrager, the chairman of the Ian Schrager Company, started a brand of hotels called Edition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); BRANDING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); BRAND EQUITY (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (74%); FRANCHISEES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%)

PERSON: J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (68%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



412 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: For BP, a Toll Likely to Extend Beyond the Cleanup

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Michael J. de la Merced, Christine Hauser and Julia Werdigier contributed reporting.

 BODY:
On the face of it, BP can easily afford to pay the short-term costs of the oil well that is leaking millions of gallons into the Gulf of Mexico. Last year, the company earned $17 billion, and it ended the year with more than $8 billion in cash. 
 But concerns about BP's ability to meet all its obligations over the long haul -- or even survive the crisis intact -- are rattling the government, Gulf Coast residents and investors.
 The ultimate cost of the disaster remains uncertain. Wall Street estimates have put the bill for BP at anywhere from $17 billion to $60 billion, including penalties, damages and cleanup costs for the Deepwater Horizon disaster. 
 Beyond the financial costs, the multinational oil giant is facing a growing number of risks that could jeopardize its future. The company is almost certain to face tougher scrutiny from regulators. Opportunities to drill wells may be limited as governments and partners shy away from the company's tarnished reputation.
 At the extreme, revenue could be sharply curtailed if the federal government found that the accident was caused by gross negligence and tried to revoke BP's right to operate in the United States, which accounts for one-third of the company's business.
 ''A company that faces this kind of catastrophic situation is going to have its opportunities limited, and countries are going to look at BP in a different way,'' said Edward C. Chow, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''It will take quite a long time to recover business momentum.''
 To make sure that all claims are paid, the Obama administration has stepped up the pressure on the company, demanding that it set aside money to pay for future liabilities before paying dividends to shareholders, which now amount to about $10.5 billion annually. Senate Democrats are asking BP to set up a $20 billion cleanup fund. 
 BP, which has spent about $1.5 billion on the cleanup so far, has said it expects to be able to pay all spill costs from its regular operating funds.
 But in response to the federal government's requests, BP's board met Monday to consider its options. A spokesman said the company did not expect to announce decisions about its dividend until after its chairman and its chief executive spoke with Mr. Obama on Wednesday at a meeting the president had called.
 A person with direct knowledge of the discussions said the board was considering three options: suspending payment of the dividend for two quarters, paying the dividend in bonus shares rather than cash, or placing an amount equal to the dividend payment in escrow while continuing to pay for the cleanup separately. 
 Under the last option, BP would not tap the escrow fund unless the cost of the cleanup and claims exceeded what it could pay out of its regular cash flow. This option, the person said, could offer some reassurance to Washington and to shareholders that BP would meet its financial obligations to both. 
 Concerns about the company's ability to balance the competing demands on its cash have prompted investors to dump the stock. On Monday, BP shares fell almost 10 percent in New York trading, contributing to the stock's nearly 50 percent plunge since the April 20 accident.
 ''The costs are going to be significant, yes, and potentially they are an existential threat to BP,'' said Bruce Bullock, director of the Maguire Energy Institute at Southern Methodist University. 
 In the bond markets, the cost of insuring against the possibility of BP defaulting on its debts has soared. The price of a $10 million five-year credit default swap has gone from $50,000 a year before the spill to $425,000. ''There's a lot of nervousness,'' said Otis Casey, an analyst at Markit, a financial information services company. 
 The company has hired Goldman Sachs, the Blackstone Group and Credit Suisse to help it evaluate its financial options. If BP needs to raise cash quickly, those options could include asset sales or more complicated financial maneuvers. 
 In recent days, the administration has raised the prospect of forcing BP to pay the salaries of workers affected by the government's moratorium on offshore oil drilling. This is an unprecedented demand, and legal experts said the argument had little chance of standing before the courts. 
 The government must carefully balance the demands it places on BP with its concern about recovering all costs, analysts said.
 ''The government is feeding the frenzy that is taking place within the financial markets,'' said Chris Ruppel, managing director for capital markets at Execution Noble, an international investment bank. ''It will only make it that much more difficult for them to adequately remediate the long-lasting effects of the spill.''
 Over time, the drop in BP's market value could turn the company into a target for a takeover by Western rivals or even one of Asia's national oil companies, although questions about the company's financial liability for the spill would give pause to potential acquirers.
 ''How do you quantify the risk of the well?'' said Mr. Ruppel. ''It's difficult to see how someone would want to step into that.''
 For the moment, however, with oil trading above $75 a barrel, the company has torrents of money flowing in and says it will be able to use that revenue to pay for the cleanup as well as many of the penalties it will face. 
 Last year, BP operations generated $27.7 billion in cash. 
 The company operates the biggest oil field in North America -- Prudhoe Bay in Alaska's North Slope. Its refineries in Texas City, Tex., and Whiting, Ind., are among the five largest in the country. Globally, the company had 63 billion barrels of resources at the end of 2009, including more than 18 billion barrels of proven reserves. 
 Last year, BP had about $26 billion in debt, giving it a debt-to-equity ratio of about 20 percent. The company has said that it could raise that ratio to 30 percent and still have an appropriate level of financial flexibility. 
 ''Our asset base is strong and valuable,'' BP said in a statement last week, adding that it had ''significant capacity and flexibility in dealing with the cost of responding to the incident, the environmental remediation and the payment of legitimate claims.''
 With each passing day, however, the bills keep growing. If the spill were somehow stopped today, the cost to BP could be as little as $9.6 billion, according to Kevin Book, an analyst at Clear View Energy Partners. If the spill were to stop in July, 90 days after the accident, it would cost as much as $29.2 billion, he said.
 BP projects that it will not be able to completely stop the spill until August, when it hopes to complete the drilling of a relief well to kill the leaking one. 
 Fadel Gheit, a senior oil and gas company analyst at Oppenheimer, estimates that BP will eventually face $20 billion in claims and cleanup costs. Punitive damages to the federal and state governments could double that figure. Mr. Gheit said the maximum cost could be as much as $60 billion, paid over many years.
 Costs include payments for lost tourism and commercial fishing revenue in the four states most affected by the spill -- Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi.
 Damages related to tourism are potentially enormous if the spill spreads beyond the Florida Panhandle and spoils beaches across that state's coasts. Nearly 5 percent of Florida's 19 million residents work in the tourism industry, according to tourism officials, and the nearly 80 million visitors a year bring the state an estimated $60 billion in revenue.
 An analysis by the Institute for Economic Competitiveness at the University of Central Florida estimated as a worst case that the spill could cost the state $10.9 billion in lost economic activity and 195,000 jobs. Hotel owners in the beachside city of Pensacola have already projected revenue losses for June of as much as 60 percent.
 BP could fight such claims in court to try to reduce punitive damages -- and delay payment. Plaintiffs in the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill received 10 cents for every dollar claimed in court against Exxon Mobil, and the court battles dragged on for two decades. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl-Henric Svanberg, left, chairman of BP's board, and Tony Hayward, chief executive of BP, in London last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HACKETT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) CHARTS: Estimating BP's Exposure . . .: One moderate projection, based on the oil well being capped after 90 days, shows that BP's costs could approach $30 billion.
. . . and How It Might Pay Claims: With $240 billion in revenue last year, BP appears to have the cash flow to cover potential costs in the next few years. (Sources: Clear View Energy Partners (liabilities)
 BP (assets)) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); NEGLIGENCE (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



413 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Officials Elated by Minerals Report

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Government officials sounded headily optimistic Monday as they fielded questions from local and international reporters about a new report on the extent of Afghanistan's mineral wealth that suggests considerable potential for products other than opium, which until now has been the country's most lucrative export. 
 The report, produced by the American military and the United States Geological Survey, found that Afghanistan had at least $1 trillion in mineral wealth.
 In a news conference primarily with Afghan reporters, President Hamid Karzai's spokesman, Waheed Omar, called the report ''the best news we have had over many years in Afghanistan.''
 ''The Afghan government is actively looking to its Ministry of Mines, to its Ministry of Commerce and to other entities in the Afghan government to start to bring these to the benefit of the Afghan people,'' he said.
 As they waited to hear Mr. Karzai's spokesman, some Afghan reporters excitedly calculated among themselves how much each Afghan would theoretically get if the mineral treasure trove were divided equally. Assuming the $1 trillion valuation and Afghanistan's population of 29 million, that would give each Afghan man, woman and child $34,482.76.
 Bidding for rights to explore the reserves could begin in as little as six months, said Jawad Omar, spokesman for the Mines Ministry. The minister is expected to give a detailed news conference on the report this week.
 According to the report, which was described Monday in The New York Times, Afghanistan has at least $1 trillion in mineral deposits that have yet to be unearthed. It is a potential income source so vast that if it were tapped and the wealth handled in a way to benefit the whole population, the country could be transformed. It would also turn Afghanistan into a mining center. 
 That would, however, require a substantial change in the country's circumstances, since many of the reserves were found in politically unstable areas, said Mr. Omar, the Mines Ministry spokesman.
 ''Mining is not like a shop that you can open and immediately take advantage of,'' he said, adding that it would most likely take 5 to 10 years before the country could begin to use those reserves. 
 ''Mining needs studies, infrastructure and security in order to attract the investments,'' he said. 
 American geological experts have said it could take far longer, perhaps decades, given the lack of mining infrastructure. 
 Afghan officials said the government believed that there was even more wealth than was reflected in the minerals survey, in part because the surveyors did not examine closely the entire country and at least 30 percent of it has yet to be fully investigated. 
 One worry, raised by reporters at the presidential spokesman's weekly news conference on Monday, is that neighboring countries as well as the Taliban would see the wealth as a further incentive to wrest power from the current government. Or perhaps in some areas, insurgents or warlords would try to ensure that a measure of the wealth came to them.
 Waheed Omar, the president's spokesman, avoided addressing the worrisome possibilities and focused on the potential benefits.
 ''This will improve drastically the lives of the Afghan people, the economic status of the Afghan people and to see that positively, that will unite the Afghan people,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Flowers and a brick-drying furnace by a road in a rural district south of Kandahar, Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); TALIBAN (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SURVEYING & MAPPING (76%); MINES & MINING (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



414 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina: Primary Do-Over Sought

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A Charleston County council member asked Monday for a new Democratic primary for the Senate after losing last week to an unemployed military veteran who had raised no money and had no signs and no ads. The Democratic Party's 92-member executive committee plans a hearing Thursday on a protest by the losing candidate, Vic Rawl. Party leaders cannot remember ever overturning the results of a primary. Alvin Greene, 32, a political unknown, defeated Mr. Rawl, a former state lawmaker, for the right to face Senator Jim DeMint in the fall. Representative James E. Clyburn said he thought someone put Mr. Greene up as a shell candidate to embarrass the Democratic Party. (AP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICS (88%); COUNTIES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (73%); JAMES CLYBURN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



415 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: The Unemployed Held Hostage

 BODY:
Since June 1, when federal unemployment benefits began to expire, an estimated 325,000 jobless workers have been cut off. That number will swell to 1.25 million by the end of the month unless Congress extends the benefits. The Senate, so far, has failed to act. 
 Some senators, including Democrats, have balked at an unrelated provision that would begin to close a tax loophole enjoyed by some of the richest Americans. You heard right. Desperately needed unemployment benefits have been held hostage to a tax break for the rich, and the Senate's Democratic leadership has had to delay and finagle to get its own caucus in line. 
 State-provided unemployment benefits generally last for 26 weeks, and the federal government picks up the tab after that, provided Congress approves the extensions. There is no disagreement over the need: 46 percent of the nation's 15 million jobless workers have been unemployed for more than six months -- a higher level than at any time since the government began keeping track in 1948. 
 There is not even any genuine debate about how to pay for extended benefits. An extension through November would cost about $40 billion. But unemployment benefits are correctly considered emergency spending -- they are a vital safety net, and the money is crucial to supporting consumer demand in a weak economy -- and exempt from pay-as-you-go budget rules. 
 Nonemergency provisions in the bill do need to be paid for, including renewal of several generally useful business tax breaks, like the research-and-development tax credit, totaling $32 billion over 10 years. To help cover those costs, Democratic lawmakers in the House and Senate started out with the sound idea to close an egregious tax loophole that allows wealthy fund managers at private equity firms and other investment partnerships to pay a top tax rate of just 15 percent on much of their earnings -- versus a top rate of 35 percent for all other higher-income Americans. 
 Closing the loophole would raise an estimated $25 billion over 10 years. Many private equity mavens, venture capitalists and other partnerships have lobbied to keep as much of the loophole as they can. Most Republicans and some Democratic senators -- including John Kerry of Massachusetts, Mark Warner of Virginia and Maria Cantwell of Washington -- are doing their bidding. 
 In its version of the bill, the House closed part of the loophole: fund managers would retain the special low rate on 25 percent of their privileged earnings. The loophole measure was watered down even more in the Senate. And investment partnerships are still lobbying. 
 Senators aren't likely to vote on the bill until the end of this week. Then it would need to be reconciled with the House-passed version. In the meantime, hundreds of thousands more jobless Americans will lose benefits. 
 The Senate bill is also urgently needed because it includes a provision to provide $24 billion in emergency fiscal aid to states, which is vital to preventing further mass layoffs and damaging budget cuts on the state and local levels. 
 The right thing to do is obvious. The House and Senate should immediately extend unemployment benefits and aid to states and close the fund-managers' tax loophole -- completely.
 That so many senators have balked is a bad sign for the economy and for the most vulnerable Americans. The fact that lawmakers are not willing to ask the nation's wealthiest to pay their fair share of taxes also makes a mockery of all their talk about deficit reduction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (85%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); APPROVALS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MARIA CANTWELL (57%); MARK WARNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



416 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: To Address Disaster, Obama Will Take to Oval Office With a Familiar Theme

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The venue says it all. By choosing to speak to the nation on Tuesday night for the first time from the Oval Office, where his predecessors have spoken of wars and disasters, President Obama is conveying the gravity of the spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Yet his theme should feel familiar to the millions of Americans who tune in. Aides say Mr. Obama will describe the eight-week-old oil spill as a slow-motion crisis, resistant to the best efforts and billions of dollars from government and industry. Ultimately, he will say, the nation will recover, just not soon. 
 Sound like the economy? 
 In the year and a half since Mr. Obama became president at the height of the worst recession since the Great Depression, he has repeatedly tried to balance a message of hope, amid signs that the economy is mending, with a frank concession that recovery will continue to be painfully slow.
 Now the president must strike the same sort of balance in talking to the nation about the oil spill. And he has chosen to do so from the familiar office that Americans since the dawn of the television age have come to associate with big moments -- for them, and for presidents.
 In the nearly two months since the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded on April 20, BP and government scientists have tried and failed at the quick options for plugging the spewing leak in the gulf. Now they are left with the slowest but surest solution, drilling a relief well a mile down. As with the economy, Americans have grown uncertain and fearful about the spill's environmental and economic impact, and even more skeptical that government is competent enough to do anything about it -- a sentiment that, more broadly, is roiling this midterm election year and threatening Democratic majorities in Congress.
 It is Mr. Obama's goal, advisers say, to acknowledge the uncertainties and what one called ''the new reality,'' allay people's fears and give reason to hope.
 ''We now can give people a very frank assessment of what this is going to be like over the next several months and the steps the federal government is going to take to ensure full recovery and restoration for the region,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director.
 Among the memorable Oval Office addresses, President Ronald Reagan consoled the country on the night of Jan. 28, 1986, after the Challenger space shuttle exploded that morning on liftoff, killing its crew of seven, including Christa McAuliffe, who was to be the first ordinary American in space. And President George W. Bush sought to reassure the nation on the night of Sept. 11, 2001, as the World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon smoldered. 
 ''This is inherently different than those events,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''It's not an event; it's an ongoing crisis, and you treat it differently.'' 
 Administration officials describe an approach resonant of Franklin D. Roosevelt's fireside chats amid the Depression. As he toured the coastlines of Mississippi and Alabama on Monday, Mr. Obama made remarks that hinted at the possible flavor of his planned 15-minute speech.
 At a staging site for cleanup efforts in Theodore, Ala., Mr. Obama referred to the fishermen, shrimpers, oystermen and others he had met in four visits to the Gulf Coast and described their fear that the spill ''can have a long-term impact on a way of life that has been passed on for generations.''
 ''And I understand that fear,'' he said. 
 Mr. Obama contrasted the still-unfolding disaster with the region's experience with Hurricane Katrina: ''It's not simply one catastrophic event. It's an ongoing assault whose movements are constantly changing.''
 Then he struck the familiar balance of realism and hope.
 ''Now I can't promise folks that the oil will be cleaned up overnight,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It will not be.'' More businesses will be hurt and people will be angry. ''But I promise you this, that things are going to return to normal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met Monday in Gulfport, Miss., with officials and local businesspeople to discuss the spill. He planned a televised address on Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



417 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Revolution: Year 2

BYLINE: By REUEL MARC GERECHT. 
Reuel Marc Gerecht, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, is a former Middle Eastern specialist in the C.I.A.'s clandestine service.

 BODY:
Washington
 IN 1985 -- when no case officer could even dream of widespread pro-democracy demonstrations in Tehran like those that occurred a year ago this week -- I first arrived on the Iran desk in the C.I.A.'s Directorate of Operations. One of my colleagues was an older man who had entered the agency in its early days, when liberal internationalists and hawkish socialists ran most of America's covert-action programs. 
 Intellectually irrepressible, softhearted (for an operative) and firmly on the political left, my colleague did not recognize national boundaries when it came to promoting human rights. He could talk for hours about why the Austrian philosopher Karl Popper, the author of ''The Open Society and Its Enemies,'' was the answer to Iran's religious tyranny. He was nearly alone within the directorate in his enthusiasm and plans for doing something to help Iranians against Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's theocracy. 
 As it turns out, many of the intellectual heavyweights who've driven Iran's ever-growing pro-democracy Green Movement also love Popper and his defense of liberal democracy. The former reformist president, Mohammad Khatami, who is fascinated by (and a little fearful of) Western philosophy and the economic dynamism of liberal democracy, can't stop writing about Popper. And the much more influential Abdolkarim Soroush, an Iranian philosopher of religion who may be the most important Muslim thinker since the 11th-century theologian al-Ghazali, also pays his respects to the Austrian in his efforts to create a faith that can thrive in a more open, democratic society.
 As I consider the changes in Iran over the last year, the people who come quickly to mind are my covert-action-loving colleague, Karl Popper and the army of pro-democracy lay and clerical Iranian intellectuals who've been transforming their country's culture and ethics. They are our guides to what the United States ought to be doing vis-a-vis Iran; they are also a reproach to how President Obama has so far conducted Iran policy. 
 Whereas the Reagan administration in the 1980s could do little to help Iranians (Ronald Reagan's determined efforts to engage the clerical regime over the hostages in Lebanon certainly didn't strengthen ''moderates'' in Tehran), Mr. Obama could do vastly more. By throwing in his lot with the freedom movement, he would surely increase the odds that we won't have to live with a nuclear bomb controlled by virulently anti-American and anti-Semitic clerics. Democrats, once the champions of promoting pro-democracy movements, need to understand that the good that they can do for the people of Iran far exceeds the great harm that comes from doing nothing.
 Yet for the United States to help, we need to first see clearly what's been happening in Iran since Ayatollah Khomeini's death in 1989 and over the last year. In the 1980s, when Iran's youth were enthralled by the charismatic Khomeini, it would have been difficult to imagine that in two decades the same Muslim society would engage in the most damning critique of dictatorship ever seen in the Middle East. 
 One reason for this shift is the intellectual stagnation of the regime. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's spiritual adviser, Ayatollah Mohammad Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi, is influential in part because he is all that remains of a legion of first-rate minds who sincerely believed that man and God were coming together in an almost perfect union in the Islamic Republic. 
 The Green Movement, which is an upwelling of Iran's enormous cultural and political transformation, is what America has long wanted to see in the Middle East, especially after 9/11: a more-or-less liberal democratic movement, increasingly secular in philosophy and political objectives, rooted in Iran's large middle class and even larger pool of college-educated youth (a college education in Iran, where the revolution zealously opened universities to the poor, doesn't connote any social status).
 The movement is similar in its aspirations and methods to what transpired behind the Iron Curtain in the 1980s. It aims to incorporate the spiritually dispossessed, the free thinkers, the poorly paid, the young (more than 60 percent of Iran's population is now under 30), the dissident clergy and, perhaps most important, the first-generation revolutionaries of the 1970s who have been purged by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Khomeini's charisma-free, paranoid successor as supreme leader. The movement is also the most recent manifestation (the first being Mr. Khatami's presidential victory in 1997) of widespread anger by women over their second-class citizenship in the Islamic Republic. 
 The movement is unique in Islamic history: an intellectual revolution that aims to solve peacefully and democratically the great Muslim torment over religious authenticity and cultural collaboration. How does a proud people adopt the best (and the worst) from the West and remain true to its much-loved historical identity? 
 The millions who voted in 1997 and 2001 for Mr. Khatami, a clerical apostle of cultural integration, were telling us that for them, this is really no longer a big problem. Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, who ruled from 1941 until the revolution, failed in his dream of turning Iranians into Germans. Yet 30 years of theocracy have done an astonishing job of Westernizing Iran's culture and political preferences.
 While the riots of last June did not topple the mullahs, the Islamic Republic is now permanently unstable. Every national holiday has the potential of turning into a day of protest, and the regime must send out hundreds of thousands of security forces, as it did in the days leading up to the anniversary on Saturday. 
 The brutality that Ayatollah Khamenei unleashed against the Green Movement last summer -- government forces have been accused of murder, torture and, most shockingly, rape -- has probably cost the regime dearly among the country's devout, the bedrock of the supreme leader's power. 
 Mir Hussein Moussavi, the most prominent leader of the democracy movement, is alive and out of jail undoubtedly because the regime fears the shock waves that could come with his imprisonment or death. While many in the West casually dismiss the movement because it's been unable to maintain huge street demonstrations, Ayatollah Khamenei has an acute grasp of how numerous his enemies are and how volatile the country remains.
 Yet President Obama -- who only slowly came to recognize the Green Movement as a protest against tyranny -- would probably ignore Iran's democracy movement completely if Mr. Khamenei would just deign to talk to Washington about his nuclear program. The president seems irretrievably wedded to the idea of ''engagement.'' 
 The administration is playing up the sanctions it pushed through the United Nations Security Council last week. In the White House, sanctions are seen as a calibrated and reversible form of pressure tied to Tehran's actions. Embracing the Green Movement would be politically and morally much more problematic. The movement is no longer just about liberalizing the state: it is now all about regime change.
 But this is an instance in which playing power politics offers the United States tremendous upside. Ayatollah Khamenei is far more likely to compromise on nuclear weapons if he feels he's about to be undone by the Green Movement. Common sense -- let alone a strategic and historical grasp of what is unfolding in Iran -- ought to incline President Obama to back the movement's repeatedly made request of Washington: communications support.
 More specifically, the opposition needs access to satellite-fed Internet connections across the country. Unlike landline connections, satellite-dish communications are difficult for the government to shut down. Just monitoring them would be a technical nightmare for the regime. The opposition needs more access to the wide array of satellites that are accessible from Iran -- including Arabsat, which was founded by the Arab League in 1976, and France's Eutelsat. 
 THE democracy movement also needs a large supply of digital-video broadcasting cards, which function much like prepaid telephone cards and allow downloading and uploading of digital content from satellites. The Green Movement's technology experts have done back-of-the-envelope calculations: just $50 million per year could open the entire country to the Internet. Millions less would still allow the diverse range of pro-democracy groups to communicate with each other and more effectively counter the regime's security forces. Compared to what the United States peacefully did to help anti-Communists during the cold war, such aid would be a pittance, financially and operationally. 
 Just a week before Iran's elections last summer, Mr. Obama gave his speech to the Muslim world from Cairo. In it, he spoke about ''the harmony between tradition and progress'' in Islam by juxtaposing Egypt's oldest center of religious learning, Al Azhar University, with Cairo University, once one of the region's finest secular institutions. But these two universities, and what they represent, have been in a tug-of-war for over a century. 
 It was this lack of harmony -- the constant tension between the Muslim search for authenticity and the Muslim love of Westernization -- that destroyed Mohammad Khatami's reformist presidency in Iran. The principal battle is not between ''us'' and ''them,'' but within Islam itself. Yet President Obama doesn't seem to grasp that the United States is unavoidably part of this increasingly violent struggle. And we really do want one side to win: the friends of Karl Popper.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARC HENNES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PHILOSOPHY (74%); ETHICS (74%); WRITERS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (88%); LEBANON (79%); AUSTRIA (71%)

TITLE: The Open Society and Its Enemies (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010



418 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK COLUMN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: One Crowd Still Loyal To Goldman

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Lots of people are talking about what is happening at Goldman Sachs. This is a column about what is not happening at Goldman.
 Despite all the bad headlines -- the accusations of fraud, the talk of a big settlement, the risk, however remote, of criminal charges -- there's an inconvenient truth that's been largely ignored: Most of Goldman's big customers are not bolting.
 To the contrary, nearly all of them are standing by Goldman, despite come-hither looks from Goldman's rivals.
 What gives? To many people, Goldman has become America's most reviled engine of capitalism. Even now, as thousands of barrels of oil gush into the Gulf of Mexico every day, people think less of Goldman than they do of BP, according to the BrandIndex daily survey of consumer perceptions conducted by YouGov. 
 Postcrisis, Goldman has gained a reputation as, in the felicitous phrase of Rolling Stone, the Great Vampire Squid -- accused of duping its clients, of stonewalling investigators, of betting against entire economies. By its own admission, Goldman seeks to manage conflicts rather than avoid them.
 For its part, Goldman keeps insisting that it plays fair. To which its critics say, come on. Are you really sticking to that story, after all the public outrage? Who do you think believes you?
 As unsatisfying as this may be to the firm's detractors, the people who seem to believe in Goldman are the ones who pay its bills.
 ''We trust them,'' Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric, told an audience at the 92nd Street Y in New York last month. ''People need to tone down the rhetoric around financial services and stop the populism and be adults.''
 In recent weeks, BP went looking for advisers to help it think through the liabilities of the spill. Considering BP's own public relations problems, you might think it would stay far away from Goldman. But no, Goldman is now one of those advisers. (Goldman, it should be noted, happens to also be an adviser to the New York Times Company.)
 All of this may have you questioning why the public is so outraged -- ostensibly on behalf of wronged Goldman clients -- when many of the clients themselves seem unconcerned.
 Revelations about Goldman's business practices have raised important questions about the social utility of many products that are sold on Wall Street and the need for stronger oversight. What is unknown is whether Goldman is losing prospective clients. It will be interesting to see what happens to its market share over the next couple of months, as the various government investigations unfold.
 But the widely accepted narrative that Goldman almost single-handedly caused the financial crisis, that it is somehow worse than firms that failed like Lehman Brothers and that it consistently undermines its clients at every turn, doesn't seem to square with its own clients' perception of the firm.
 And it's not as if executives are blind to times and mores. Thomas J. Pritzker, the chairman of Hyatt Hotels and a long-time Goldman client, says he's wise to Goldman's practices.
 ''I'm a big boy,'' Mr. Pritzker told me. ''I understand that they are in many businesses. I go into it with my eyes wide open.'' He added, ''I don't feel any outrage, just the opposite.''
 That is not to say that all clients have stuck with Goldman or that none are dissatisfied. Some have stopped using the firm or are re-evaluating their relationship in light of the civil lawsuit brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. But most of those clients are linked to government agencies, where appearances, and politics, matter.
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, for example, has severed its ties, as have some public pension funds. Interestingly, the American International Group had planned to drop Goldman as its main adviser, after some well-publicized deals that put them in conflict and left A.I.G. on the losing end. But then A.I.G.'s attempt to sell its Asia business fell through recently -- a deal that would have helped A.I.G. pay back some of its debt to taxpayers -- and now Goldman is back on the case.
 Indeed, Goldman's franchise has endured -- no, prospered -- through one of the most tumultuous periods in the bank's history.
 Yet rarely has the view from the corner office been so at odds with the view from just about every other corner.
 ''Goldman has been politicized, and it is important to look beyond the demagogy to examine the facts,'' Joseph M. Zubretsky, the chief financial officer of Aetna, the large health insurer, told me in an e-mail message. ''Our experience with Goldman is that they conduct themselves consistent with the values we expect from a close adviser.''
 Goldman has been good to corporations like Aetna and G.E., and vice versa. Goldman has helped companies raise money and cut deals that keep shareholders happy. G.E. and Goldman even share a big-name benefactor, Warren E. Buffett, who has invested billions in both companies.
 So even if some clients do have misgivings, they might not want to speak ill of family. Its critics might suggest that its clients are so close to the action that they are missing the bigger picture.
 The former chief executive of Washington Mutual sent an e-mail message about Goldman, disclosed as part of the S.E.C.'s civil fraud suit, that said, ''They are smart, but this is swimming with the sharks.'' His colleague added, ''We always need to worry a little about Goldman because we need them more than they need us and the firm is run by traders.''
 Another reason for clients' steadfastness, of course, could be inertia. Most of Drexel Burnham's clients, for example, did not abandon it until the bitter end. Either way, executives and investors seem to have concluded that the benefits of doing business with Goldman outweigh the risks. At least for now, pending another shoe dropping.
 Reflecting on accusations and revelations that Goldman sometimes wore multiple, seemingly conflicting, hats, Mr. Pritzker told me that in one instance, such tactics might have served Hyatt well. When Goldman was advising Hyatt about selling a stake in its hotel chain and an investor dropped out, he said, Goldman's own private equity arm swooped in. Did Goldman profit? Probably. But Mr. Pritzker was just glad the deal got done.
 ''That deal would have failed if they hadn't done that,'' he said.
 Mr. Immelt has his own concerns about Goldman.
 ''I wish they'd take care of their own compensation,'' he said in his remarks at the 92nd Street Y, suggesting Goldman is paying its people too much. ''It just shouldn't be this kind of problem. I trust them to manage their own reputation.''
 On that score, even Goldman's most loyal clients might say the firm has work to do.
 The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The DealBook column on Tuesday, about the loyalty of Goldman Sachs's clients, misstated, in some editions, part of the name of one client that did sever its ties with the bank. It is the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, not the Metropolitan Transit Authority.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Pritzker, the chairman of Hyatt Hotels, said he was not upset with Goldman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); MARKET SHARE (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); NYT (NYSE) (63%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%); GULF OF MEXICO (71%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



419 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 530 words

PERSON: James N. Wood 

HEADLINE: James N. Wood, President of the Getty Trust, Dies at 69

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
James N. Wood, who was the director of the Art Institute of Chicago for 25 years and took over as president and chief executive of the Getty Trust in Los Angeles in 2006, helping to steer it through a turbulent period, died Friday at his home in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles. He was 69 and also had a home in Bristol, R.I. 
 Mr. Wood died of natural causes, the trust said, but no cause of death was announced.
 In his years at the Chicago institute, Mr. Wood became one of the most respected museum leaders in the country, overseeing an expansion of its world-class collection, renovations of all its departments, the construction of a new wing and the initial planning for a second addition.
 He also helped conceive well-regarded exhibitions -- a Monet retrospective in 1995 and a van Gogh and Gauguin show in 2001 -- that broke attendance records for the museum.
 Before taking over the Art Institute, he was the director of the St. Louis Art Museum for six years. He also held positions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo
 Mr. Wood was the first person with a deep background in art and museum administration to serve as president of the Getty Trust since its formation in 1982. He succeeded Barry Munitz, a businessman and former chancellor of the California State University system, who had resigned under pressure after eight years amid growing criticism of his leadership and questions about his use of the trust's money.
 Under Mr. Wood, the trust -- which oversees the J. Paul Getty Museum and three other arms, for conservation, research and philanthropy -- was seen as having restored its reputation. Mr. Wood moved aggressively to streamline the organization of the trust, leading to layoffs and the elimination of dozens of positions. During the recession, he instituted deep cuts in the Getty's operating budget that led to salary cuts and further layoffs. 
 In January, Michael Brand, the museum's director, announced that he was resigning. Several museum officials and others in the art world with knowledge of the situation said that Mr. Brand's departure came about because of sharp differences with Mr. Wood over the museum's direction, specifically over the control of money for acquiring art. 
 James Nowell Wood was born March 20, 1941, in Boston. He received his undergraduate degree in art history from Williams College and his master's from the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.
 He is survived by his wife, Emese Forizs, an art historian and painter; two daughters, Rebecca Breen and Lenke Moscarelli; and three grandchildren.
 Mr. Wood was mentioned through the years as a leading candidate for the director's post at the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Instead, he chose to stay at the Art Institute until his retirement in 2004. 
 When he agreed to take the post at the Getty Trust, he told The New York Times he considered the previous two years a kind of ''extended vacation,'' one that he had assumed would continue a lot longer. But he said of the new position: ''I feel extremely grateful. It's a totally unexpected opportunity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); PAINTING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (84%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Art, Non-profit Organizations

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



420 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: The 'Learning Knights' of Bell Telephone

BYLINE: By WES DAVIS. 
Wes Davis is the editor of ''An Anthology of Modern Irish Poetry.''

 BODY:
FIFTY-SIX years ago today, a Bell System manager sent postcards to 16 of the most capable and promising young executives at the company. What was written on the postcards was surprising, especially coming from a corporate ladder-climber at a time when the nation was just beginning to lurch out of a recession: ''Happy Bloom's Day.'' 
 It was a message to mark the annual celebration of James Joyce's ''Ulysses,'' the epic novel built around events unfolding on a single day -- June 16, 1904 -- in the life of the fictional Dubliner Leopold Bloom. But the postcard also served as a kind of diploma for the men who received it. 
 Two years earlier a number of Bell's top executives, led by W. D. Gillen, then president of Bell Telephone of Pennsylvania, had begun to worry about the education of the managers rising through the company's hierarchy. Many of these junior executives had technical backgrounds, gained at engineering schools or on the job, and quite a few had no college education at all. They were good at their jobs, but they would eventually rise to positions in which Gillen felt they would need broader views than their backgrounds had so far given them.
 The sociologist E. Digby Baltzell explained the Bell leaders' concerns in an article published in Harper's magazine in 1955: ''A well-trained man knows how to answer questions, they reasoned; an educated man knows what questions are worth asking.'' Bell, then one of the largest industrial concerns in the country, needed more employees capable of guiding the company rather than simply following instructions or responding to obvious crises.
 In 1952, Gillen took the problem to the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a trustee. Together with representatives of the university, Bell set up a program called the Institute of Humanistic Studies for Executives. More than simply training its young executives to do a particular job, the institute would give them, in a 10-month immersion program on the Penn campus, what amounted to a complete liberal arts education. There were lectures and seminars led by scholars from Penn and other colleges in the area -- 550 hours of course work in total, and more reading, Baltzell reported, than the average graduate student was asked to do in a similar time frame.
 At the same time, the institute's curriculum provided for the sorts of experiences that were once the accidental concomitants of a liberal education: visits to museums and art galleries, orchestral concerts, day trips meant to foster thoughtful attention to the history and architecture of the city that surrounded the Penn campus, as well as that of New York and Washington. 
 Perhaps the most exciting component of the curriculum was the series of guest lecturers the institute brought to campus. ''One hundred and sixty of America's leading intellectuals,'' according to Baltzell, spoke to the Bell students that year. They included the poets W. H. Auden and Delmore Schwartz, the Princeton literary critic R. P. Blackmur, the architectural historian Lewis Mumford, the composer Virgil Thomson. It was a thrilling intellectual carnival. 
 When the students read ''The Lonely Crowd,'' the landmark 1950 study of their own social milieu, they didn't just discuss the book, they discussed it with its author, David Riesman. They tangled with a Harvard expert over the elusive poetry in Ezra Pound's ''Pisan Cantos,'' which had sent one of the Bell students to bed with a headache and two aspirin.
 The capstone of the program, and its most controversial element, came in eight three-hour seminars devoted to ''Ulysses.'' The novel, published in 1922, had been banned as obscene in the United States until 1933 and its reputation for difficulty outlived the ban. The Bell students ''found it a challenging, and often exasperating, experience,'' Baltzell wrote. 
 But, prepared by months of reading that had ranged from the Bhagavad Gita to ''Babbitt,'' the men rose to the challenge, surprising themselves with the emotional and intellectual resources they brought to bear on Joyce's novel. It was clear as the students cheered one another through their final reports that reading a book as challenging as ''Ulysses'' was both a liberating intellectual experience and a measure of how much they had been enriched by their time at the institute. 
 At the end of the 10-month course, an anonymous questionnaire was circulated among the Bell students; their answers revealed that they were reading more widely than they had before -- if they had read at all -- and they were more curious about the world around them. At a time when the country was divided by McCarthyism, they tended to see more than one side to any given argument. 
 What's more, the graduates were no longer content to let the machinery of business determine the course of their lives. One man told Baltzell that before the program he had been ''like a straw floating with the current down the stream'' and added: ''The stream was the Bell Telephone Company. I don't think I will ever be that straw again.'' 
 The institute was judged a success by Morris S. Viteles, one of the pioneers of industrial psychology, who evaluated its graduates. But Bell gradually withdrew its support after yet another positive assessment found that while executives came out of the program more confident and more intellectually engaged, they were also less interested in putting the company's bottom line ahead of their commitments to their families and communities. By 1960, the Institute of Humanistic Studies for Executives was finished. 
 As the worst economic crisis since the Depression continues and the deepening rift in the nation's political fabric threatens to forestall economic reform, the values the program instilled would certainly come in handy today. We need fewer drifting straws on the stream of American business, and more discontented thinkers who listen thoughtfully to both sides of our national debates. Reading ''Ulysses'' this Bloomsday may be more than just a literary observance. Think of it as an act of fiscal responsibility.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL HASKETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); CURRICULA (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (84%); FESTIVALS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRELAND (79%)

TITLE: Ulysses (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



421 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Fed Issues Rules On Credit Fees

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Federal Reserve on Tuesday adopted new rules aimed at protecting credit card customers from lofty late payment charges and other penalty fees. 
 The rules ban credit card companies from charging a penalty fee of more than $25 for paying a bill late. They prohibit credit card companies from charging penalty fees that are higher than the dollar amount associated with the customer's violation. They also ban ''inactivity fees'' when customers don't use the card to make new purchases, and they prevent multiple penalty fees on a single late payment. The rules take effect on Aug. 22.
 Companies will also have to reconsider interest rates imposed on customers since the start of last year. Some lenders pushed through rate increases ahead of the first phase of sweeping new credit card protections, which took effect earlier this year. Those first set of rules were intended to protect customers from sudden surges in interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



422 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Fifteen Economists Issue Crisis-Prevention Manual

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Rather than setting pay levels, the government should require banks and other critical financial institutions to withhold a share of each senior manager's total pay for several years, a group of leading economists is urging in a new book. The money would be forfeited if the company went bankrupt or had to be bailed out. 
 The pay proposal is one of the main suggestions in ''The Squam Lake Report,'' to be released on Wednesday by Princeton University Press. In a sign of the seriousness with which the recommendations are being examined, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will help introduce the book at a conference at Columbia University. 
 The book, a consensus of 15 academics, including former advisers to Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, is coming out as Congress works toward completing the biggest changes in financial regulation since the Depression. 
 About half of the group's eight core recommendations -- though not the pay proposal -- are strongly reflected in the two bills that are now being merged by a conference committee. But the scholars also say the legislation contains flaws that have resulted from political imperatives rather than sound economic thinking. 
 The group first met in November 2008, as the financial crisis still raged, at a tranquil resort along Squam Lake in New Hampshire. The academics hashed out ideas for buffering the financial system from future crises, and developed those ideas over the next year and a half, through e-mail messages, phone calls, Web postings and professional conferences.
 ''Our target audience was not other academics, but key decision-makers, not just in the U.S. but other countries as well,'' said one of the economists, Matthew J. Slaughter, who teaches at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth with Kenneth R. French, who convened the group.
 That ambition is reflected even in the book's cover, whose design resembles that of the 9/11 Commission report, a surprise best seller of 2004. 
 Jeremy C. Stein, a Harvard professor who is part of the group, said that holding back a fraction of each year's bonus pool would make bank executives act more like taxpayers (who do not benefit when a huge bank is profitable, but bear the costs when one has to be bailed out) and less like shareholders (who often favor short-term risks in the hope of scoring a quick profit). 
 The House and Senate bills would allow regulators to curb pay practices that make a bank unsound or take too many risks, but leaves to regulators the decision on how to do it.
 Another recommendation that has received limited attention in Washington involves a kind of debt instrument known as contingent convertible bonds, or CoCo bonds. Banks would be encouraged to issue such debt, which would automatically convert into equity in a crisis. Such bonds would speed up the recapitalization of an ailing bank, at no cost to taxpayers, leaving bondholders to bear the cost of failure. 
 The House and Senate bills would allow, but not require, the Fed to impose a contingent capital requirement.
 The Squam Lake group also concluded that each country should have a single regulatory organization -- in the United States, ideally the Fed -- to oversee the health and stability of the financial system.
 The legislation in Congress entrusts that job to a new Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by the Treasury secretary, with the Fed chairman as only one of several voting members. 
 Anil K Kashyap, of the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago, said that relying on cooperation among regulators was a mistake. ''I doubt this will work, and it is very unlikely to produce much accountability,'' he said.
 The group also called for better disclosure of the risks of financial products, particularly the mutual funds used in retirement accounts and 401(k)s. The legislation would create an entity to protect consumers from abusive financial products, but did not focus on retirement savings. 
 One author, Rene M. Stulz of Ohio State University, said there was ''no guarantee that a system that leaves that much discretion to regulators will successfully reduce systemic risk.''
 But over all the Squam Lake authors said they believed that the legislation before Congress would do more good than harm. Several of their recommendations are in the bills: new tools to foresee and contain financial disruptions, higher capital requirements, mandatory ''living wills'' for the biggest financial companies and greater transparency in the trading of credit-default swaps and other derivatives.
 Some marveled that 15 economists could agree on anything. The group includes Robert J. Shiller, the Yale professor who foretold the housing crisis; Frederic Mishkin, a former Fed governor; and Raghuram Rajan, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund.
 Martin N. Baily, who was an adviser to President Clinton, said the situation ''was such a disaster that we felt an obligation to reach some common ground.'' 
 Seth Ditchik, the book's editor, said it echoed ''An Economic Program for American Democracy,'' a 1938 book by seven Harvard and Tufts economists. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth R. French of Dartmouth convened the group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); BONDS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (61%)

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: The Squam Lake Report (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



423 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Study Scours The Subway, Finding Rats Remain Wily

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration prides itself on finding high-tech solutions to New York's oldest, thorniest issues: gridlock, unemployment, homelessness.
 So it may be no surprise that City Hall is now aiming its technocratic lance at a problem so ancient as to predate the city itself: rats.
 In the first study of its kind, officials scoured the city's subway system to discover what accounts for the perennial presence of rodents, a scourge since the system opened more than a century ago. 
 The findings, disclosed at a Board of Health meeting on Tuesday, appear to belie many of the truisms familiar to any New Yorker who has screamed at the sight of a hairy critter slinking along the tracks.
 Rodents, it turns out, reside inside station walls, emerging occasionally from cracks in the tile to rummage for food. The legend of teeming rat cities tucked deep into subway tunnels is, in fact, a myth. The electrified tracks, scientists said, are far too dangerous. 
 Not every station has rats, although plenty do. Of 18 stations examined in Lower Manhattan, about half of the subway lines got a fair or poor rating for infestation, meaning they exhibited the telltale culprits -- overflowing trash cans, too much track litter -- that can lead to a rodent jamboree. 
 But befitting a creature that has evaded annihilation for centuries, officials found no obvious solutions: poison packets and traps have proved no match for an agile mammal known to be diabolically clever.
 ''They jump two feet from a running start; they can fall 40 feet onto a concrete slab and keep running,'' said Solomon Peeples, 86, a former director of the city's Bureau of Pest Control Services. ''We're no match for them, as far as I'm concerned. Man does not stand no chance.''
 The two-year subway study was a collaboration between the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which has fought rats for decades, futilely. Poison on the track is often scattered by a passing train. Subway riders persist in eating, drinking and littering while in stations, leaving behind the crumbs and detritus that, in a rat's eyes, are an invitation to make oneself at home. 
 ''Sometimes, it's only a matter of a particular track cleaner not doing their job,'' said Robert M. Corrigan, a rodentologist who led the study.
 Still, the city did offer some practical advice. Nothing quite excites a rat like a station's ''refuse room,'' a storage space for bags of garbage waiting to be hauled away. For rodents, the room is ''a restaurant,'' as Dr. Corrigan called it, and he recommended that the transportation authority install poison bait in the rooms for a more surgical strike. (Currently, the authority places poison only on the tracks.)
 Entrances to the rooms should be guarded, Dr. Corrigan said, so rats cannot reach the food. He also suggested that transit officials invest in more high-tech trapping systems, although he said budget concerns would probably stymie such plans. 
 Indeed, a spokesman for the transportation authority said Tuesday that the agency would ''need to evaluate the costs associated with implementation moving forward.''
 Dr. Corrigan said he remained optimistic that a better system of prevention could be in place within the next two years. 
 It seems that rats like to hang out in stations, but not on trains. Perhaps for good reason: In 1976, an academic study concluded that ''rats with high blood pressure should not ride the subways too often or too long: the stress of noise, vibration, and crowding may kill some of them before their time.''
 Officials would not proffer an estimate for the city's rat population. ''Eight for one human, 20 for one, none of that stuff is true,'' said Rick Simeone, the health department's director of pest control. ''It's all sensationalism.''
 On Tuesday, Dr. Corrigan told health officials that while rats were a problem in the subways, the rodents inhabited many other public spaces, particularly parks. ''Virtually all of New York,'' he said, ''is vulnerable to this uncanny mammal.''
 Mr. Peeples, the former pest control chief, concurred. ''There's not enough traps around,'' he said, ''to trap all the rats in New York City.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rats emerge from cracks in station wall tiles to find food, a study found. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RODENTS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); MAMMALS (76%); TRAINS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



424 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: A Rail Minister Distracted by Parochial Issues

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- As Mamata Banerjee presented the Indian Railways budget to Parliament this year, opposition politicians howled in protest whenever a new project she listed was in her home state of West Bengal. 
 Ms. Banerjee, the railway minister and a member of the raucous lower house, was unfazed. Occasionally, she shouted back at her opponents, mostly older men, telling them to shut up and let her finish. ''If you sit quietly, I will give you something,'' she said. 
 A year into her second stint as railway minister, Ms. Banerjee, 55, is one of several regional Indian politicians who wield significant influence over the growth of India's economy. These leaders control important ministries including rail, telecommunications, aviation and agriculture because their parties have just enough seats in Parliament to deny an outright majority to the Congress Party, which has ruled India for much of its 63 years of independence. 
 Many of them, including Ms. Banerjee, were previously members of the Congress Party. She left in the late 1990s to start the regional Trinamool Congress Party, because, she has said, national leaders were not doing enough to help West Bengal.
 Ms. Banerjee has come under fire from rival politicians and industry groups for advancing expensive populist policies and heaping largess on West Bengal, where she hopes to take over as chief minister -- the equivalent of a governor in an American state.
 Ms. Banerjee, whose office declined an interview request, has denied favoring her state and said that she wanted the private sector to help build rail infrastructure. 
 ''There have never been public-private partnerships in railways,'' said Amit Mitra, an adviser to Ms. Banerjee who runs the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce. ''She is inducting systemic changes that will have their own momentum.''
 Still, many business executives view her with a wary eye, in large part because she led protests in recent years against big industrial projects in West Bengal that had been championed by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which has ruled the state for three decades. She asserted that the state had forced farmers to sell land for the projects at below-market prices. 
 One of her campaigns forced Tata Motors, India's largest auto company, to abandon a factory complex where it had planned to produce a new $2,500 car, the Nano. Tata has since moved the factory to Gujarat State, on the opposite coast of the country.
 In her first tenure as railway minister a decade ago, Ms. Banerjee surprised people by encouraging private investment in rail, but one former rail official said she could not give the railways the time and attention they deserved.
 ''She is prepared to consider new ideas,'' said R. C. Acharya, a retired senior Railways bureaucrat. ''But at the moment her main aim is to be chief minister of West Bengal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mamata Banerjee 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (52%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (52%); TTM (NYSE) (52%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (91%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



425 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Toys 'R' Us Offers a Holiday Savers Club

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Toys ''R'' Us is counting on an Eisenhower-era tactic to get consumers to spend this Christmas. The toy retailer will begin offering a ''Christmas Savers Club'' on Wednesday that allows shoppers to put money away with the company for holiday gifts. 
 Participants will receive a card similar to a gift card, and can contribute funds to it through cash or credit card payments. As an incentive Toys ''R'' Us will add 3 percent interest on the balance.
 The program is a throwback to what banks and credit unions offered in the 1950s and 1960s before credit cards allowed people to spend money they did not have. In the so-called holiday clubs, prudent consumers would set aside shopping money in advance (''Plan now for a carefree Christmas next year,'' one Wells Fargo ad from that period read).
 ''They're trying to bring back the tried and true, pay for things before you buy them concept,'' said Ed Mierzwinski, consumer program director for the United States Public Interest Research Group, an advocacy organization.
 The program is another example of how the recession has forced retailers to come up with creative ways to promote sales. Gerrick Johnson, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said the program echoed another old tactic, promoting layaway plans for shoppers, that Toys ''R'' Us and other retailers like Kmart revived during the 2008 and 2009 holiday seasons.
 ''It says the economy's still operating at a subpar level,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 Shoppers can sign up for the program in Toys ''R'' Us stores, either at the cash register or the customer service stand. The company will add the interest on the balance as of Oct. 16, and the funds will be available Oct. 31 for purchases at Toys ''R'' Us and Babies ''R'' Us stores and Web sites.
 ''Given the type of economy that we're in, we wanted to give them as much time as possible to start planning for their budgets,'' said Greg Ahearn, senior vice president for marketing and e-commerce for Toys ''R'' Us.
 Like gift cards, the money is not meant to be refundable, though Mr. Ahearn said the stores would consider requests on a case-by-case basis. ''If they feel a need that they've got to be able to remove the funds and do something else, all they need to do is call our customer service number,'' he said.
 Sherif Mityas, a partner in the retail practice at A.T. Kearney, said he thought the program was a smart move for Toys ''R'' Us. ''Basically, what Toys ''R'' Us is trying to do is lock some of that spending up from their loyal shopper,'' he said.
 But Mr. Mierzwinski said it was not necessarily smart for consumers.
 ''Consumers would be better off putting the money in a regular savings account at a regular bank or credit union,'' he said. ''They can use the money for any purpose when the holidays come around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Toys ''R'' Us in Times Square. The chain is setting up a ''Christmas Savers Club,'' in which customers set aside holiday money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (91%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SALES FINANCING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CREDIT UNIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SALES & SELLING (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); TOYS 'R' US INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (58%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



426 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: A Dark Scandinavian Trilogy Sets Publishers Seeking More

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Camilla Lackberg has written seven blockbuster novels in her native Swedish but, until now, no one bothered to translate and publish any of them in the United States. 
 And she has a tattooed, secretive, bisexual computer hacker named Lisbeth Salander to thank for it. 
 Publishers and booksellers are in a rush to find more Nordic noir to follow Stieg Larsson's Millennium trilogy, known for the indelible characters of Ms. Salander and the investigative journalist Mikael Blomkvist. The books have become a publishing phenomenon, selling 6 million copies in the United States and 35 million copies worldwide -- nearly four times the population of Sweden. The third and final book in the series, ''The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest,'' was published last month in the United States by Alfred A. Knopf and instantly became the must-read book of the summer. 
 But Mr. Larsson died in 2004 at the age of 50; the series is seemingly at an end just at the moment when the public's appetite for Mr. Larsson's brand of Scandinavian mayhem is at its peak. (An unfinished fourth manuscript may extend the series.) 
 ''The question is, after everybody reads 'Hornet's Nest,' what are they going to do?'' said Stan Hynds, a book buyer at Northshire Bookstore in Manchester Center, Vt. ''I've got this funny feeling that every publisher is going to come out with the next Stieg Larsson.''
 Well, maybe not every publisher -- but a lot of them.
 Scandinavian crime fiction has been popular among serious mystery readers for decades, but even best-selling novelists like Henning Mankell are not yet widely known in the United States. 
 If there is a formula to the genre, it often includes a cold, stark setting and a grizzled detective figure who consumes too much coffee and junk food. The book covers tend to the bleak and icy, with images of frozen lakes, barren forests and perhaps a foreboding bloodstain.
 ''Their protagonists are aggressive, but more subdued than in American crime fiction,'' said Dave Callanan, a senior editor for books at Amazon.com. ''They've had their jobs tramped all over them. There's a slight cynicism to them.''
 Scandinavian writers who have had small but devoted followings are now seeing their books showcased alongside Mr. Larsson's extraordinarily popular series. The intense interest in the Larsson books prompted the staff at Powell's Books in Portland, Ore., to create a special section in the store for two dozen Scandinavian mysteries, by Karin Fossum, Jo Nesbo, Kjell Eriksson and Yrsa Sigurdardottir. 
 In March, a mystery by Mr. Mankell, who has been publishing books in Sweden since 1973, reached The New York Times hardcover best-seller list for the first time. The fall catalog for Minotaur Books, part of Macmillan, notes that ''Hypothermia,'' by the Icelandic author Arnaldur Indridason, will be marketed directly to fans of Mr. Larsson. Knopf recently signed Mr. Nesbo, a Norwegian novelist, to a three-book deal. In September, Pantheon plans to publish ''Between Summer's Longing and Winter's End'' by Leif G. W. Persson, another potential follow-up to Mr. Larsson. 
 ''I think Larsson readers might turn to some of the other ones,'' said Sonny Mehta, chairman of the Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. ''People have talked about Henning Mankell and Larsson almost in one breath. And they're talking about Jo Nesbo in that manner, too.''
 Only months after the American publication of ''The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo'' in 2008, Jessica Case, an editor at Pegasus Books, took an interest in Ms. Lackberg, a raven-haired former economist who is a best-selling author in Sweden but a virtual unknown in the United States. The publisher gave Ms. Lackberg a hefty advance -- ''one of the highest advances we've ever paid,'' Ms. Case said, though she declined to be more specific -- and carefully planned the American debut of the first book, ''The Ice Princess,'' for this week.
 ''I didn't want it to get lost with all the commotion when 'Hornet's Nest' came out,'' Ms. Case said. ''But I figured now that it's been out for a month, then people might be ready for what else is out there.'' 
 Even non-Swedish mystery writers seem to be inspired by the Scandinavian genre. James Patterson, the prolific author of breakneck thrillers, chose Stockholm as a setting for ''The Postcard Killers,'' a book coming out in August that he wrote with Liza Marklund, a Swedish novelist.
 Mr. Patterson insisted that he was not trying to copy Mr. Larsson. ''This is just an accident with respect to my working with a Scandinavian writer,'' he said in an interview. ''For 10 years, I've known that vampire books are going to be big. I'm not writing vampire books.'' 
 Independent booksellers, giddy over the bump in sales, said that many customers in their stores are just learning about the Millennium series for the first time. At Powell's in Portland, Mr. Larsson's books are selling so quickly -- at least 1,500 a week -- that the store's grateful employees have given them a nickname. 
 ''We call them 'The Girl Who's Paying Our Salaries for the Next Few Months,' '' said Gerry Donaghy, the new-book purchasing supervisor. 
 But other customers are walking through the door, finished with all three books and pleading for something similar. 
 Which has given some booksellers pause. Mr. Larsson's books have caught on because of their ambitious scope, complex characters, strong writing and quick storytelling, said Cathy Langer, the lead buyer for the Tattered Cover stores in Denver -- maybe not because of their Scandinavian setting. 
 ''It's a tricky line to walk,'' Ms. Langer said. ''I'd probably ask them if they'd read any Henning Mankell. But if you try to duplicate the experience, you're likely to disappoint the customer.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Powell's Books in Portland, Ore., groups other Scandinavian mysteries with the Larsson series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Two Swedish mystery writers enjoying new interest in the United States are Camilla Lackberg, left, and Henning Mankell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PEGASUS BOOKS
MARKUS SCHREIBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Stieg Larsson died in 2004, before his Millennium trilogy was released and became a worldwide publishing phenomenon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRITT-MARIE TRENSMAR) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); LAKES (50%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (52%); POWELL'S BOOKS INC (51%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (51%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



427 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: No-Fault Divorce Finally in Sight for New York

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
ALBANY -- The State Senate on Tuesday, clearing aside decades of opposition, put New York on a course to adopt no-fault divorce -- the last state to do so. It approved legislation that would permit couples to separate by mutual consent, a major shift with sweeping implications for families and lawyers.
 For decades, New Yorkers have been bedeviled by divorce laws that critics said prompted endless litigation and custody fights that were both unnecessary and cruel. 
 Under current divorce law, one spouse must take the blame, even if both sides agree that a marriage cannot be saved. To get a divorce, one party must allege cruel and inhuman treatment or adultery or abandonment, or the couple must be legally separated for one year.
 The new legislation still has to pass the State Assembly, which is considering two bills that would include some version of no-fault divorce. But advocates said Tuesday that they believed that victory in the Senate, which was controlled by Republicans until last year, gave the measure momentum and a high likelihood of gaining approval in the Assembly, which is also controlled by Democrats.
 Gov. David A. Paterson, a Democrat, is expected to support the bill if both houses of the Legislature approve it, although a spokesman cautioned that Mr. Paterson would need to review any final legislation before signing it.
 Efforts to change the state's divorce laws have been repeatedly turned back over the years, even as other states moved to liberalize their matrimonial laws to include some version of no-fault divorce. 
 Opponents included the Roman Catholic Church, which objects to making divorce easier, as well as some women's advocates, who feared that no-fault divorce would deprive women -- especially poor women who could not afford lengthy litigation -- of leverage they needed to obtain fair alimony or child support agreements from husbands seeking to divorce them.
 But supporters of no-fault divorce said the law in some cases induced couples to falsely testify to abandonment simply to speed up the process. Senate passage of the bill was considered a major victory. 
 ''What I'm hoping is that because the Assembly now has a partner in the Senate, that will give impetus to help the Assembly move along,'' Senator Ruth Hassell-Thompson, a Democrat from Westchester and the Bronx who was the chief Senate sponsor of the bill, said after the vote. 
 The bill passed 32 to 27, according to an unofficial tally, with all but two Democrats joined by two Republicans in support.
 Assemblyman Jonathan L. Bing, a Manhattan Democrat who is sponsoring the Assembly version of the same bill, said his legislation had 69 co-sponsors, nearly enough for the 76 needed to pass the Assembly. 
 ''I think that, generally, leadership in the Assembly is supportive of moving forward in this area,'' Mr. Bing said. ''I think it would be a tremendous step on behalf of New Yorkers.''
 Undergirding the vote on Tuesday was a noticeable shift in the public debate in recent years. In 2004, the Women's Bar Association of the State of New Yorkreversed its longstanding opposition to no-fault divorce.
 ''We came to the realization that forcing one party to either admit or be found at fault in the deterioration of a marriage provides no economic or other advantage to either party,'' said Annette G. Hasapidis, co-chairwoman of the association's legislation committee. ''And more importantly, it harms the children of the marriage.''
 In 2006, a panel appointed by Judith S. Kaye, then the state's chief judge, urged a major overhaul of New York's divorce and child custody rules, including allowing no-fault divorce.
 But the Senate vote is a blow to Catholic bishops in the state. In a statement, Richard E. Barnes, executive director of the New York State Catholic Conference, said that his group believed that existing law had sufficient protections for spouses seeking a divorce because of abuse or adultery and that the state had a legitimate interest in requiring couples to be legally separated for at least a year before divorcing.
 ''New York State has one of the lowest divorce rates in the country,'' Mr. Barnes said. ''While we see that as a cause for state pride, sadly some may see it as a problem to be corrected. 
 ''We urge the State Assembly to reject this proposal, and, failing that, we call on Governor Paterson to veto it.''
 The Senate also passed two related bills intended to allay fears among women's rights groups and advocates for women facing domestic abuse.
 One would ensure that in a divorce, spouses are on a more equal financial footing when it comes to retaining lawyers. While state law allows judges to require the wealthier spouse to pay the legal bill for the less wealthy spouse, the new law would require judges to make those arrangements early on in a divorce case. A matching bill passed the Assembly in May.
 The third bill would set up a standard formula that judges would need to use to determine support payments, known in New York as maintenance. Though judges would still have discretion to modify those awards, backers said that the provision would take much of the uncertainty out of divorce proceedings, where a patchwork of case law has resulted in widely inconsistent awards. 
 But Assemblywoman Helene E. Weinstein, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairwoman of the Assembly's Judiciary Committee, said she might seek changes to the Senate language before it went to a vote in her house. 
 Ms. Weinstein has sponsored a broader divorce bill in the Assembly that includes a no-fault provision but has different language on maintenance awards than the Senate bill. 
 ''I don't think that their maintenance bill is the final point where we need to go,'' Ms. Weinstein said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); FAMILY (78%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); LITIGATION (76%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); RELIGION (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



428 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Markets Make a Strong Run, Rising More Than 2%

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States closed higher on Tuesday, sustaining a broad-based rally that for once did not lose steam at the end of the session.
 As they had in recent months, the American indexes took their cues from European markets and started strong. The surge held throughout the day, and American indexes gained more than 2 percent, with the Standard & Poor's index breaking through a crucial technical level. 
 To some, it was a surprising end in a market accustomed to volatility and punctuated by sudden changes in the last hour. 
 ''We did not see selling into strength,'' said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial. ''The ability of the market to gain at the close is a sign that perhaps the bulls are gaining ground.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 2.1 percent, or 213.88 points, at 10,404.77. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.35 percent or 25.60 points, to 1,115.23, and the Nasdaq was up 2.76 percent or 61.92 points, to 2,305.88.
 Analysts said that once the S.& P. broke through its 200-day moving average and stayed there; a technical level, and perhaps a psychological one, had been breached for investors.
 ''It tells them that health is being restored into the market,'' Ms. Krosby said. ''Up until today it flirted with it and then pulled back.''
 On Monday, for example, the market lost momentum just before the close as traders seemed to be winding down their positions, apparently not wanting to leave themselves open to developments in Europe, where sovereign debt problems have cast a pall.
 ''The question now becomes whether or not we see conviction buying: Do investors believe the worst is over, and we can actually work the market higher?'' she said. 
 Art Hogan, the chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company in New York, said that crossing the moving average engendered ''a self-fulfilling short cover rally.'' 
 ''We usually have that 3 o'clock to 4 o'clock reversal of direction,'' he said. 
 In the absence of any single headline, investors reacted to many factors, like upbeat reports from manufacturers and new indicators on trade and home building. 
 Commodity prices and the euro also strengthened. Crude oil rose $1.82 to $76.94 a barrel in New York trading. The euro climbed back over $1.23. 
 European markets finished the day higher. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 0.82 percent while the CAC-40 in Paris settled 0.98 percent higher. The FTSE 100 in London was up 0.3 percent, held back by the BP shares, which declined another 3.8 percent. 
 Shares in the Boeing Company were up 4 percent at $67.48 after the company said it was starting to see increased interest in its products. Caterpillar rose 4 percent to $63.46, and Illinois Tool Works was up 2.4 percent at $46.78 after it raised its forecast.
 Best Buy, a bellwether for consumer spending, fell 6 percent to $38.56 after profits edged up but fell short of analysts' expectations. ''It is a good sign that we were able to take the market higher,'' Ms. Krosby said. 
 Import prices fell 0.6 percent, from a decline in petroleum prices, but the inflation numbers embedded in the trade data showed inflation was at bay, ahead of a Federal Reserve meeting next week. That was a positive sign, she said. 
 The S.& P. technology sector was also higher, in part because of a forecast by the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company of stronger global sales of computer chips. And a report by International Data Corporation showed year-on-year growth of 27 percent in the first quarter in the global personal computer market. 
 New economic figures showed a decline in home builders' sentiment. The National Association of Homebuilders' Housing Market Index fell to 17 in June from 22 in May, underscoring the importance of the government tax credit for the sector. The Empire state manufacturing index edged up to 19.57 in June from May. Though employment declined, the report indicated that the factory sector was recovering.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 14/32, to 101 20/32 . The yield rose to 3.30 percent, from 3.25 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%)

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (64%); BOEING CO (60%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (60%); BAB (BRU) (60%); BA (NYSE) (60%); PRU (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



429 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Greek Leader Finds Balm For Big Deficit: Straight Talk

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ATHENS -- Newly elected and facing a huge budget deficit, Prime Minister George Papandreou arrived in Brussels for his first meeting with European leaders last December with few cards to play. 
 He might have tried to play for time. Instead, he told them everything. Not only was the Greek deficit twice as high as previously reported, but his country's finances were also a mess. Corruption was pervasive. Tax evasion, rampant. 
 ''I said, listen, let's not, you know, beat around the bush,'' Mr. Papandreou recalled recently, sitting in his cavernous office at the Maximos mansion, his backpack at his feet, his Kindle on the coffee table. ''This is a problem. I will tell you what my view is and what I am trying to do.''
 Improbably, perhaps, his strategy worked. Within months, he had managed to secure the bailout he needed while still maintaining good relations with his fellow European leaders -- quite a feat, many observers say. 
 ''There is a lot of tension among the players at the E.U. right now,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate economist who frequently advises Mr. Papandreou. ''Another personality, and that tension would have blown.'' 
 Perhaps even more improbably, Mr. Papandreou's strategy of telling it like it is has worked out for him at home, too. Despite imposing a series of harsh cutbacks and telling Greeks they are largely to blame for their own problems, he remains popular with voters who only a few years ago questioned whether he was tough enough for the job. 
 Greek leaders have tended to be flamboyant and uncompromising, with a penchant for nationalistic rhetoric and a love of perks.
 Mr. Papandreou, though a scion of a pedigreed socialist political clan, has broken the mold. At times, he talks so quietly -- whether in the English he speaks with a California twang or in his other three languages -- that it is hard to hear him. 
 He had barely taken office when he gave up his predecessor's luxury BMW and plucked a used Toyota Prius from the state motor pool as his official car. Then he told his ministers to downsize, too. Some even had to share cars. 
 ''I think they understood it was important,'' Mr. Papandreou said. Perhaps. But he gave them little choice. 
 Such concessions helped persuade Germany, the most reluctant of the big European countries, to back a rescue package for Greece, one of the most fiscally profligate members of the euro currency zone. 
 At the height of the crisis in the spring, Mr. Papandreou brought the International Monetary Fund into negotiations. Some considered that an implicit challenge to Europe's ability to sort out its own financial affairs, but it also served as a wake-up call that Greece needed the region's collective help.
 No one seems more eager for reform than Mr. Papandreou himself. Though the Papandreou family has the political resonance in Greece of the Kennedys, Mr. Papandreou is American-born and educated. He has stubbornly pursued the prime minister's office for much of the decade, despite being rejected twice by the Greek voters. 
 He ran an Obama-like campaign promising change and transparency. He now faces the tasks of dismantling the sprawling Greek welfare system that his father, Andreas, helped erect when he was prime minister in the 1980s. 
 Not much of an orator, Mr. Papandreou is at home in the world of academic conferences and foreign policy discussions. He hits his stride talking about how globalization has affected decision making. ''There is a paradox,'' he said. ''People are much more aware of the common problems. But at the same time, there is the realization that you can't do much on your own.'' 
 Richard Parker, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government who has known the family since he was a graduate student working for Mr. Papandreou's father, said George Papandreou was ''very low key, a democrat with a small d.'' 
 ''There is a lack of bluster or pretension to him, and yet he is quite fluid in the Davos world where others are quite married to the pecking order.'' 
 In fact, Mr. Papandreou hosts his own mini Davos on a different Greek island every year. The result is that he has a vast network of experts, including Mr. Parker and Mr. Stiglitz, whom he consults with regularly, often through overnight e-mail messages. His aides jokingly call these consultations going into the F.O.G., for friends of George. 
 He has televised cabinet meetings, publicly shamed tax-dodging doctors and started investigations of low-level Finance Ministry officials, who own homes worth more than $1.3 million, though they earn only modest salaries. 
 At the same time, he has pushed through legislation to remake the country's government structure, reducing the number of states to 13 from 76 and the number of counties to 370 from 1,034. 
 Yet Mr. Papandreou displays none of righteous glee of public crusaders like Rudolph W. Giuliani or Eliot Spitzer. 
 ''It's been painful,'' he said of recent events. ''Even unjust sometimes because there are parts of the society that have not been responsible for this crisis, but they are going to have to pay the consequences.'' 
 Whether he will be successful in keeping his country from bankruptcy remains an open question. He concedes that the austerity measures could push Greece into a depression. And he still has a few extremely unpopular measures -- such as pension reform -- to push through Parliament. 
 Meanwhile, strikes and protests continue and, in recent weeks, criticism has been mounting over the performance of his ministers. 
 Babis Papadimitriou, a prominent centrist political commentator, says he ''loves George like everybody else.'' But he says he worries that Mr. Papandreou's ministers are not up to the task.
 ''He has no bench,'' Mr. Papadimitriou said. 
 Mr. Papandreou grew up during a volatile stretch of Greek politics and saw his grandfather and father jailed and exiled. He spent much of his early life abroad in California. His mother, Margarita, is American, and his father taught economics at Berkeley. He graduated from Amherst College and speaks French and Swedish in addition to Greek and English.
 He was dragged into politics in 1967, at the beginning of what was to be a seven-year military dictatorship in Greece, when soldiers broke into his home in Greece looking for his father and, unable to find him, held a gun to Mr. Papandreou's head.
 Even when his father became prime minister in 1981, he initially showed little interest in running for Parliament. But one of his brothers offered him a convincing argument. He said: ''Listen, it's only four years. It's like getting another degree. And you can leave it, if you don't like it.''
 Later, Mr. Papandreou served in his father's cabinet as education minister and foreign minister, though the relationship between father and son was strained at times. 
 When a huge earthquake hit Turkey in 1999, George Papandreou stepped up to offer aid, though relations between the two neighboring countries were tense. He brokered a thaw, and friends called that a defining moment.
 ''I think it became clearer for him then that he was not just the prime minister's son -- that he could do it on his own,'' Mr. Parker said.
 Opponents have sometimes ridiculed Mr. Papandreou for stumbling in the use of the Greek language -- a subject that clearly annoys him.
 But aides say he shows a deep understanding of his homeland -- and an uncanny knack for navigating its politics.
 ''He is political to his fingertips,'' Mr. Parker said. ''He got that from his father.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister George Papandreou of Greece at the European Union headquarters in Brussels in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS) (A5)
 George Papandreou secured the bailout he needed while still maintaining good relations with his fellow European leaders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORESTIS PANAGIOTOU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EURO (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EURO ZONE (63%); MONETARY UNIONS (62%); TAX FRAUD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); GREECE (93%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



430 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: College and Hospital Combine Forces To Revitalize Site

BYLINE: By JEFF SCHLEGEL

 BODY:
LANCASTER, Pa. -- The Northwest Gateway Project has been hailed as the revitalization of a sizable chunk of this city of 55,000 in south-central Pennsylvania, yet a bird's-eye view of it from atop a rusted pedestrian bridge seems underwhelming -- a large green field with an undulating walkway lined with decorative lamp posts, an empty boulevard and a working rail yard.
 Yet it took a lot of heavy lifting to get this far in transforming a 77-acre industrial swath of the city's northwest section into an ''eds and meds'' corridor housing the expanded operations of Franklin & Marshall College, a private institution with 2,200 students, and Lancaster General Health, a regional health care system that includes a hospital and nursing school. 
 Those two entities, along with mostly federal, state and local government sources, are paying the project's estimated $73 million bill. Because of the logistics, the environmental cleanup and the long time frame needed to make it happen, supporters say it is the type of project that private developers would not have had the patience to do.
 ''It has a lot of moving parts,'' said John Fry, president of Franklin & Marshall College. He said he began planning for the project not long after he assumed the job in 2002. 
 The project site, at the north end of Franklin & Marshall's campus, is proceeding in two phases. The first entailed buying a 47-acre tract that once housed a Armstrong flooring plant, demolishing the plant and cleaning up the site. That phase was completed last October.
 The second phase calls for moving an adjacent 30-acre section of a Norfolk Southern rail yard about a half-mile west, creating a contiguous parcel for both Franklin & Marshall and Lancaster General to expand. The plans for the rail yard have generated local opposition over concerns about noise and environmental impacts.
 In the next three to five years, the college plans to turn its 47-acre share of the combined parcels into athletic fields and a football stadium. The site of the current stadium, which sits snug in the heart of the main campus, will eventually be developed into a new academic quad, an underground garage and offices for alumni and admissions.
 Lancaster General's plans include relocating its nursing school to the property. The company is working on its strategic plan for the project site, and it could include consolidating administrative functions and building mixed-use office and retail space. 
 After Armstrong, a $3 billion company based in Lancaster that has dozens of plants worldwide, decided for economic reasons to end most operations on the site (it maintains a 19-acre plant on the far end of the property that makes vinyl flooring), Mr. Fry reached a deal with the company to convey the property to Franklin & Marshall.
 It took more than a year to raze some 200 buildings with a total of 2.5 million square feet. Billed as one of the country's largest demolition sites, it was featured on the History Channel series ''Boneyard'' in 2007.
 The Armstrong site was bought for $1 by EDC Finance, an industrial development corporation in Lancaster and a partner in the project. EDC assumed the environmental liabilities for the cleanup with the goal of transferring the land to the college and Lancaster General upon completion.
 Armstrong, F&M and Lancaster General each contributed $6 million for the cleanup, and government money covered the rest. 
 The total cost was $27 million, or about $6.5 million under budget. ''Development costs approached $500,000 per acre,'' said David Nikoloff, president of EDC Finance. ''No private developer could have done that. Armstrong tried, but got no takers.''
 For now, the former Armstrong property is a vast field of turf with a long walkway, lampposts and a small utility building with exterior photo displays spotlighting the site's former industrial glory. A new roadway bisecting the site -- Thomas M. Armstrong Boulevard, named for the company's founder -- awaits future traffic.
 For the next couple of years, the Northwest Gateway project's main focus will be on relocating the eastern section of the Norfolk Southern rail yard to a former municipal dump in neighboring Manheim Township. Norfolk Southern says the new setup will be more efficient and enable it to add more cars to its twice-daily runs. 
 The dump has been cleaned and capped, and construction on the new yard began in April. The next step will involve reconfiguring the tracks between the new yard and the existing switching yard. The budget for all of that is $46 million, including $6 million each from Franklin & Marshall and Lancaster General, and a mix of state and federal funds from economic development, brownfield and transportation sources.
 Keith Orris, a vice president of the college and the institution's liaison for the Northwest Gateway Project, said as much as $6 million was still needed for the rail work. Once it is complete, Norfolk Southern will move into its new yard and turn over the eastern section to Franklin & Marshall and Lancaster General. In turn, they will rip up the tracks, scrub the site and build cross streets to connect surrounding roads and improve traffic flow in the northwest section. Completion is slated for 2012. 
 But neighbors of the proposed rail yard are fighting the project over noise and environmental concerns, holding public meetings and calling for environmental reviews. And they oppose using taxpayer money to give Norfolk Southern a new yard, contending that the company was already contemplating reconfiguring its Lancaster operations before it was approached by the college. Norfolk Southern is contributing $2 million to the project.
 ''Norfolk Southern is getting a Mercedes for the price of a Malibu,'' said Sarah Young Fisher, president of a wealth management firm and treasurer of a local group that opposes the new rail yard.
 But Ms. Fisher acknowledges the project will probably go through, particularly after the state signed off in late May on the final environmental cleanup of the former dump site that will be the site of the new rail yard. Her group has 30 days to appeal that decision. 
 Mr. Fry, who leaves Franklin & Marshall on June 30 to become president of Drexel University in Philadelphia, says he believes the Northwest Gateway Project will benefit both the campus and the city.
 ''To reclaim industrial property with significant environmental problems that wasn't going to be productive in the future and create new value for our own expansion and for growth and development of the neighborhood is a win-win situation,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Keith Orris, left, is a vice president at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., and John Fry is the school's president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RATAJCZAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); RESILIENT FLOOR COVERING MFG (69%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (65%); RESILIENT FLOOR COVERING (64%); FLOORING (50%)

COMPANY: NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (53%)

TICKER: NSC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



431 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: House-Senate Talks Drop New Credit-Rating Rules

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House and Senate negotiators voted on Tuesday to strip new conflict-of-interest rules for credit rating agencies out of a sweeping overhaul of the nation's financial regulatory system, leaving in place a process that many analysts say contributed to the proliferation of troubled mortgage-backed securities that were a cause of the 2008 financial crisis. 
 Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, had championed a proposal that would end a longstanding practice of banks choosing the rating agencies, like Moody's Investors Service or Standard & Poor's, that evaluate the securities they issue. Mr. Franken and other critics of the process said having the banks choose and pay the ratings companies created a direct conflict of interest. 
 Mr. Franken succeeded in winning strong bipartisan support to include his proposal in the Senate version of the legislation. His amendment was adopted by a vote of 64 to 35. 
 But some of the chief sponsors of the regulatory overhaul, including Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, had opposed the idea. They warned of practical difficulties in the measure's plan to make random assignments of rating agencies. 
 In conference negotiations to reconcile the House and Senate versions of the legislation on Tuesday, Senate Democrats said they were willing to remove Mr. Franken's language and accept a proposal by Mr. Frank calling for the Securities and Exchange Commission to study the conflict-of-interest issue without immediately imposing the requirement of random assignments of rating agencies. 
 The negotiators added language saying that regulators ''shall'' put forward rules dealing with the conflict-of-interest issue in the future. 
 Mr. Dodd said the conflict of interest seemed obvious and yet figuring out a solution was not as clear-cut. ''How is it that you get to pick your own rating agency, where you don't do any due diligence and just rely on the data and information given to you by the very company that has hired you to give them a rating?'' Mr. Dodd asked. ''I mean, just saying it alone, it screams out for a resolution.'' 
 ''Senator Franken raised a very interesting idea on how to do this,'' he added. ''My concern is I don't know how you work it. It's complicated.'' 
 Even Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a supporter of Mr. Franken's proposal, said he was concerned about the practical implications. 
 ''We know that credit rating agencies were one of the major tripping points of our financial system,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''When a company gives a triple-A rating to $300 million of no-doc loans, something is wrong.'' 
 But Mr. Schumer said he shared some of Mr. Dodd's concerns. ''The thought in the Franken amendment is to have some independent nonconflicted verification,'' he said. ''It's a good thought. It makes a great deal of sense. As you said, Mr. Chairman, the trouble is in implementing it.'' 
 Mr. Franken, in a statement, said he could live with the compromise and expected that the rules for credit rating agencies ultimately would be changed. 
 ''Wall Street's broken credit rating system played an enormous part in our economic meltdown, and it's our duty as lawmakers to make sure that never happens again,'' he said. ''We know that conflicts of interest rewarded cozy relationships instead of accuracy, and we know how to fix the problem. The language agreed on by the conference committee means more time and more study than I think is necessary, but it also means definite action will be taken.'' 
 But the decision to put off any new restrictions on the ratings agencies could leave lawmakers open to criticism that they are failing to take aggressive action. 
 And some Republicans said Congress should go even further to sharply curtail the role of credit ratings agencies and instead force investors to take more responsibility for assessing the securities they trade. 
 ''There is a strong bipartisan support in the Senate and, I am sure, in the House to eliminate overreliance on credit rating agencies,'' Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, said in proposing an amendment that would eliminate any reference in federal law to the use of ratings agencies. 
 ''Investors would be expected to identify and to defend to their regulators their own standards of creditworthiness,'' Mr. Shelby said. 
 The conference committee, dominated by the majority Democrats, also approved a number of other changes to the financial regulatory legislation and rejected several amendments proposed by Republicans. The conference negotiations are scheduled to resume Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Mel Watt of North Carolina in a House-Senate conference meeting on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: AL FRANKEN (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%); MELVIN L WATT (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



432 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: On 56th Day, Call to Arms

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Fifty-six days, millions of gallons of oil and countless hours of cable television second-guessing later, President Obama finally addressed the nation from the Oval Office on Tuesday night to declare war.
 His enemies were oil industry lobbyists and corrupt regulators, foreign energy suppliers and conservative policy makers, and a stubborn gushing well at the bottom of the sea. And ultimately, he was fighting his own powerlessness, as a president castigated for failing to stop the nation's worst-ever oil spill tried to turn disaster into opportunity.
 While laying out his ''battle plan'' to break ''this siege'' from a spill ''assaulting our shores,'' the commander in chief hoped to pivot from defense to offense, using the still-unresolved crisis in the Gulf of Mexico to press for sweeping change in energy policy. Evoking the spirit and language of predecessors who used the same setting to send troops into harm's way, Mr. Obama cast the effort to cap a well as part of the American determination to shape its own destiny. 
 ''The one approach I will not accept is inaction,'' Mr. Obama said from behind the presidential desk named Resolute with the traditional flags in the background. ''The one answer I will not settle for is the idea that this challenge is somehow too big and too difficult to meet.'' 
 For eight weeks, the spill has seemed somehow too big and too difficult to meet as the president struggled to contain it while trying to demonstrate leadership, sympathy and anger. It was not clear that this was one of those dramatic moments that alter the arc of a political crisis.
 Until now he has employed most of the tools of his office, imposing a deepwater drilling moratorium, traveling repeatedly to the region, firing an agency director and appointing a commission. He used a few more Tuesday night, summoning the cameras to the Oval Office, appointing a long-term recovery coordinator and demanding that the company responsible, BP, set up a multibillion-dollar escrow account to compensate the victims. 
 And for good measure, on Wednesday he will subject BP executives to a perp walk of sorts across the White House driveway into the West Wing for a presidential scolding.
 That he would feel compelled to devote his first Oval Office address to the nation after 17 months to the spill, and not to the Great Recession or two actual shooting wars still raging overseas, only underscored the profound impact on his presidency. By this point in their tenures, his four most recent predecessors had all spoken from the Oval Office (Ronald Reagan had five times already), according to Martha Joynt Kumar, a Towson University scholar.
 The reluctance may be understandable. The format frustrated George W. Bush, who never felt comfortable in the setting and sought out other sites for major addresses both in the White House and on the road. In a different way, it does not play to Mr. Obama's particular oratorical skills, which are at their most effective before large, receptive audiences. 
 In his first use of the trappings of the office, Mr. Obama seemed at ease and filled the screen, as political professionals put it. While not projecting Reagan's fatherly folksiness or Bill Clinton's feel-your-pain empathy, or even reaching the rhetorical flourishes of his own most famous speeches, Mr. Obama came across as confident and presidential, curbing his natural instincts for professorial lecturing (if not the constant hand gesturing, which proved distracting on television). 
 He required more time from viewers than many Oval Office addresses, about 18 minutes compared with the 4 or 5 consumed by John F. Kennedy's civil rights speech, Reagan's paean to the Challenger crew or Mr. Bush's addresses after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks or the opening of the Iraq war. But he adopted some of the martial language often heard in such moments. He had spent part of his day at the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Fla., where he linked the challenge of the gulf to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. By the time he looked into the camera back in Washington, he vowed to win ''the battle we're waging against an oil spill that is assaulting our shores and our citizens.''
 The purpose, though, was to go beyond the immediate and make the case that the spill justifies his plans for energy and climate change legislation, a way of turning a political burden into a political weapon. He called on Americans to ''seize the moment'' to ''end America's century-long addiction to fossil fuels.''
 ''The tragedy unfolding on our coast is the most painful and powerful reminder yet that the time to embrace a clean energy future is now,'' he said. ''Now is the moment for this generation to embark on a national mission to unleash America's innovation and seize control of our own destiny.'' 
 The connection to the spill, of course, goes only so far. While he called for more wind turbines and solar panels, for instance, neither fills gasoline tanks in cars and trucks, and so their expansion would not particularly reduce the need for the sort of deepwater drilling that resulted in the spill. 
 And Republicans quickly accused Mr. Obama of capitalizing on the leaking oil to pass a bill that otherwise seemed stalled. ''President Obama should not exploit this crisis to impose a job-killing national energy tax on struggling families and small businesses,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader.
 On the other side, some environmentalists fretted that Mr. Obama would be too timid. ''Will President Obama give a grandiose speech followed by more politically expedient baby steps, or will he set America on a new path?'' Philip Radford, executive director of Greenpeace, asked before the address.
 Grandiose or not, Mr. Obama has used speeches in big moments before to turn around political troubles, including his speech on race when his campaign appeared likely to implode because of his association with the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright or addresses to a joint session of Congress at two different points when his health care program was in jeopardy.
 He ended Tuesday night's address with a prayer for courage and for the people of the gulf and for a hand to ''guide us through the storm towards a brighter day.'' 
 But he knows if he gets through this one, there will be another storm. ''The oil spill,'' he said, ''is not the last crisis America will face.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We see an entire way of life being threatened,'' President Obama said in a speech Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); OCEANS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



433 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Reviving Investor Protection

 BODY:
Over the next few days, the public will find out if markets can be made safe for ordinary Americans. The conference committee on financial reform will be discussing the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is supposed to ensure that markets are fair and transparent, but failed like other regulatory agencies in the years leading up to the financial crisis. 
 In the 17 months since President Obama made her the chairwoman of the S.E.C., Mary Schapiro has begun to rebuild the agency, focusing on its investor protection mission, replacing top personnel, ramping up examination and enforcement and identifying ways in which the agency has not kept pace -- technologically and organizationally -- with today's fast-moving markets.
 Congress needs to ensure that Ms. Schapiro has the resources to accelerate and reinforce her efforts and that the agency will remain well financed, even after memories of the financial crisis have faded.
 Under current law, the S.E.C. is subject to annual appropriations from Congress, and the result has been inconsistent financing. Through most of the 1990s, its staff barely grew, even though the volume and value of securities transactions exploded. In the boom years of the past decade, it had flat or declining budgets. Financing and staffing have increased during the Obama administration, but even with the boost, the number of new employees and the agency's capacity to spend on new technology is far short of the need. 
 A must-pass provision in the Senate version of regulatory reform would allow the S.E.C. to finance itself through fees it already imposes on securities transactions and corporate filings. The agency collected $1.5 billion in 2010, but it was turned over to the Treasury and the agency was allotted only $1.1 billion.
 The appropriators who currently control the S.E.C. budget argue that Congress will lose important oversight of the agency if it is self-financed. That argument is intended to protect turf, not investors. It ignores the abysmal job that appropriators did in overseeing the agency before the crisis. It also overlooks the fact that the House Financial Services Committee and the Senate banking committee have jurisdiction over the S.E.C. and should hold regular hearings on the agency's activities.
 Self-financing is key to reinvigorating the S.E.C., and a reinvigorated S.E.C. is essential to restoring investor confidence. If lawmakers decide otherwise, investors have reason to doubt both the safety of markets and the ability of Congress to put the public interest first. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LEGISLATION (74%); JURISDICTION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (72%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



434 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: In an Arid Land, Wines Sparkle

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
ALBUQUERQUE
 IT would be really easy to whiz past the demure sign and stately entrance of the Gruet Winery on the Pan American Freeway here, not far from Target and almost subsumed by an R.V. dealership on one side and Tuff Shed on the other. 
 Inside, though, a sister and brother who moved here from the Champagne region of France 27 years ago and took the risk of planting grapes in this high desert climate are producing what have become phenomenally successful domestic sparkling wines. While the recession has pummeled wine producers in Champagne, Napa and elsewhere, Gruet has held its own, and even made headway in some markets, with only some minor wholesale losses. 
 Credit for this goes to budget-minded pricing: most of Gruet's sparkling wines sell for well under $20. Customers wanting Champagne or sparkling wine have been moved to taste less-expensive products, wine buyers and restaurateurs say, giving these French expatriates in New Mexico a timely edge. Their sparkling wines are especially popular in New York and California, and have, in the last 10 years, appeared on the wine lists of high-end restaurants, including Craft, Del Frisco's and Bar Americain in Manhattan. 
 The siblings, Nathalie and Laurent Gruet, were pioneers when the family planted an experimental vineyard in 1983, in Lordsburg, N.M., and then settled a year later on land near Truth or Consequences, a small town about 150 miles south of here known among local tourists and retirees for its natural hot springs and mild climate. As it turned out, the climate was an advantage for winemaking, with cool evening temperatures that slow the ripening to produce a pleasantly sharp acidity. 
 Some critics say that despite its high quality-to-price ratio, Gruet pales beside unquestionably superior sparkling wines made in France and even in California. But many wine buyers and reviewers see Gruet as a source of affordable domestic gems that hold up to -- or can even outdo -- more expensive domestic products. 
 ''You can get decent things from the Finger Lakes, and Virginia is doing some nice sparking wines, but there are very few that are classics, and I think Gruet is a classic now,'' said Tracy Wilson, general manager of the cafes at the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, where the Gruet blanc de noirs is served at Terrace 5 for $12 a glass, or $44 a bottle. ''Its profile is beautiful, it drinks like a French wine, but it's got this twist on it, so it's not as minerally. It's crisp. It's just a pleasant drink.'' 
 It makes sense that Gruet drinks like a French wine, because the family behind it has deep roots in France. Gruet et Fils was established in Champagne in 1952 by the family patriarch, Gilbert Gruet, in Bethon. Mr. Gruet, who died in 1999, was an architect who agreed to help build a winery in Champagne in exchange for lessons in making the region's sparkling wine. 
 He founded the first wine cooperative in Bethon in 1967, persuading the villagers to rip out the sugar beets in the fields and plant grapes instead, family members said.
 In the early 1980s, like other winemakers in the region, Mr. Gruet decided that with a change in the French government and impending tax increases, it was time to start a winery in another country. With two of his four children, Nathalie and Laurent, he toured California, Texas, New York and finally, on the suggestion of some European winemakers he knew there, New Mexico. 
 ''We were pretty charmed by the rugged beauty of New Mexico, and to see these lush vineyards in the middle of the desert was very intriguing to my father,'' said Ms. Gruet, 47. The land was also less expensive than other options they considered, she said. 
 New Mexico had a centuries-long history as a leading producer of American wine. But in the early 20th century, flooding and groundwater in the state's wine country, near the banks of the Rio Grande, became a crippling obstacle, turning fertile land into swamps. By 1920, there were no wineries left. It was not until the early '80s that a government-sponsored study meant to attract European vignerons, some of whom were beginning to set their sights on California and other states, reported improved growing conditions.
 But the early years were not easy for the Gruets. At the first vineyard in Lordsburg, the brother and sister, together with Ms. Gruet's husband and their 5-month-old baby boy, lived in a trailer on a small plot of land. They soon discovered the area was too hot for chardonnay and pinot noir grapes, sold the land and planted a new vineyard 100 miles east, in an area called Engle, about 10 miles outside Truth or Consequences. 
 ''We didn't speak a word of English and we were in the middle of nowhere,'' Ms. Gruet said. ''That was pretty strange. But when you're in your 20s, you take a challenge better. You have a bit more adventure in your soul.''
 They wanted to try the Champagne method of making sparkling wines in New Mexico, so they had samples of the sandy and earthy soil sent to France for testing, to make sure the vines could grow the deep roots they needed to thrive. Encouraged by the results, they imported their first press and other machinery from France and rented a small production space in Albuquerque, as their father financed an operation that grew in small increments over 20 years. 
 ''We started very small, we didn't know if it was going to work,'' Ms. Gruet said. ''I think my father was living his dream through his children. He had a pioneer spirit, a spirit to start something totally oddball in the middle of nowhere.''
 They went from producing 2,000 cases of wine in 1989, to 100,000 cases a year now, doing everything but the growing in a 45,000-square-foot plant in Albuquerque. The French and New Mexican wineries now produce about the same amount of wine, the Gruets said. (Their other two siblings, twin sisters, stayed in Champagne and now run the operation there.) 
 The New Mexican branch of the family said that they have found the climate here even better for grapes than in Champagne; the days can be very hot, but the nights, as much as 30 degrees cooler, slow the maturation process in what would otherwise be a short growing season. The arid air that wards off rot also helps with the wine's consistency, Laurent Gruet said, adding that they use no pesticides on the vines. 
 Before they hired a distributor, Mr. Gruet and his brother-in-law carted cases of wine across the state to restaurants, liquor stores and tasting events, aggressively marketing it any chance they got. 
 ''We started with one state, then two states, then we were adding states and it took over 20 years of labor,'' said Mr. Gruet, 45. ''We would tell the distributors, 'We're from New Mexico, open the bottle and taste it.' Sometimes it would be a long time between when they received it and getting them to taste it.''
 Within a few years, mentions in newspapers and wine magazines helped the Gruets capture the attention of wine buyers and distributors far beyond New Mexico. Their wines are now sold in 49 states -- 60 percent of it at about 5,000 restaurants and the other 40 percent at retail stores, Mr. Gruet said. The winery produces seven sparkling wines, four that retail for an average of $15 a bottle, as well as three more-expensive vintage sparklers, which range in price from $17 to $46. They also produce a small amount of still chardonnay and pinot noir.
 Robert Lemberger, the wine buyer for the Artichoke Cafe in Albuquerque, one of the first restaurants to serve Gruet, was working at a bistro in Florida 10 years ago when he first heard of Gruet, which was on the wine list there. 
 Gruet is produced ''in such high-quality fashion that the flavors just layer in their wines,'' he said. ''Their grand reserve is beautiful, with the taste of caramel and apples, citrus and a little bit of vanilla, as good as a reserve should be, and the blanc de noirs is wonderfully complex.''
 The region around Truth or Consequences also produces chilies and other crops, but all of them are grown closer to the Rio Grande than the Gruet grapes are. Water for irrigation has to be pumped about 15 miles to the vineyard, which proved to be too cumbersome and expensive for the other wineries in the area. Gruet is the only one left, according to Olivia DeCamp, executive director of the New Mexico Wine Growers Association. Ms. Gruet said that the winery was doing well enough to sustain the extra cost and that the family decided it was not worth uprooting a vineyard that was consistently producing quality grapes. 
 As to whether the Gruets would consider striking out again, adding another Champagne house or American winery, Ms. Gruet laughed and sounded a bit weary.
 ''That's for the next generation,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM FRENCH ROOTS: The Gruet Winery in Albuquerque, pioneered by siblings, Nathalie and Laurent Gruet. (D1)
A SMALL START'S YIELD: At the Gruet Winery in Albuquerque, the interior of a stainless steel tank is readied with a final rinse by Jeremiah Baumgartel, assistant winemaker.
RISK PAYS OFF: Laurent and Nathalie Gruet, who started the winery. A reference plot of vines beside the parking lot.
 ATTENTION GETTING: A production worker at the winery feeds bottles of blanc de noirs into the labeling machine. A glass of brut nonvintage sparkling wine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (91%); WINERIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); DESERTS (76%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (71%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (70%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHAMPAGNE-ARDENNE, FRANCE (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



435 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Saving Energy, And Its Cost

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There once was a time when the government relied on a very blunt way of regulating the economy. It told companies and individuals what they could do and what they could not do. These were the days of command-and-control regulation.
 But then came the market revolution of the last three decades. With the Soviet empire collapsing, the United States economy growing more rapidly than Europe's, and newly market-friendly China and India booming, people saw the drawbacks of command and control. Governments were usually better off avoiding outright bans and instead giving people incentives to behave in productive ways. 
 The classic example was environmental policy. 
 Most famously, a 1990 bill signed by the first President Bush forced coal plants to buy permits if they were going to emit the sulfur dioxide that caused acid rain. With the price of emissions suddenly higher, the plants looked for innovative ways to reduce pollution -- and succeeded more rapidly and cheaply than experts had predicted. 
 This history is the basic argument for putting a price on carbon today, and the next several weeks are likely to determine whether that happens. The chances of Congress's passing a permit -- or cap-and-trade -- system that applies to the whole economy are low. But it could still create a version that covered power plants, if not factories and transportation. That would be no small thing. 
 ''There is a little bit of a window,'' says Jason Grumet, an energy expert and the head of the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington. The BP spill has focused attention on energy policy, and Congress still has seven weeks before its August recess. ''Setting a price on carbon in the power sector,'' Mr. Grumet added, ''is the most significant opportunity we have to achieve domestic greenhouse gas reductions.''
 Unfortunately, the great economic strength of market systems like cap and trade also happens to be their political weakness. They set prices and allow people to react. In the process, market systems acknowledge that reducing pollution may actually cost a little bit of money. 
 Politicians don't like to admit this, because voters don't like it. Accepting higher costs is especially hard when the economy is weak. So Congressional Democrats have been repackaging their energy bills to make them look less and less market-oriented. Senator John McCain, who supported a permit system for carbon as the Republican presidential nominee, no longer does. Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican, has reversed his position as well. 
 What does Mr. Graham now favor? A series of command-and-control regulations. He has introduced a bill with Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican, that would mandate specific standards for cars, trucks, homes and offices. It would also give the energy secretary the power to award loans to companies he thought could do a good job of setting up programs to retrofit buildings. State officials would do the same for factories. The bill, in short, puts more faith in government than the market.
 This approach can certainly reduce the carbon emissions causing climate change. Fuel economy rules have cut per-mile gasoline use by 40 percent since 1975. As a result, vehicles have made more progress on energy efficiency than office buildings, houses and apartments. That's one reason a cap-and-trade system for power plants -- which provide energy to offices and homes -- has such potential to reduce carbon emissions. 
 The Lugar-Graham bill focuses on offices and homes, too, and would make a difference. But it wouldn't make as much of a difference, and it also has other drawbacks. 
 In a market system, businesses and consumers have a clear incentive to reduce their carbon use, and they can choose the cheapest way to do so. Some would decide to retrofit current buildings and homes to make them more energy-efficient. Some would buy new, more efficient machinery or appliances. Some would switch to alternative energy and, in the process, create a much bigger market for it.
 ''Instead of leaving it up to the government to identify the solution and tell people what to do, you are leaving that decision to the people who know best,'' says Nathaniel Keohane of the Environmental Defense Fund. ''A bureaucrat would never have enough information to do as good a job.''
 Under a command-and-control system, businesses and consumers have to focus not just on carbon use but also on the details of the government's rules: the intricacies of vehicle and building standards, the types of appliances that qualify for subsidies, the fine print of the Energy Department's loan applications. Each bit of compliance brings costs.
 It's just that those costs are hidden in a thicket of bureaucracy. The fuel economy rules, for example, have raised the price of minivans, pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s by limiting how many can be sold. But the price increase has not been obvious, as it would be with a gas tax. We can pretend prices are no higher than they otherwise would have been.
 In some ways, it is not fair to pick on Mr. Lugar, Mr. Graham and the other senators, both Democratic and Republican, who support the command-and-control approach. It is far better than nothing. The ideal energy policy, in fact, would include some ironclad rules and regulations, because people do not always respond rationally to prices. Consultants at McKinsey & Company argue that many families and businesses could already save money by taking simple energy-saving steps, yet they don't do so. Building standards could overcome their inertia.
 But relying only on rules, regulations, standards, loan programs and research financing seems inadequate to the task we're facing. The last 12 months have been the warmest 12-month period on record, NASA says. Nine of the 10 warmest calendar years occurred in the last decade.
 The market is the most powerful tool available for dealing with the costs and risks of a hotter planet. Given how loudly politicians like to proclaim their belief in the market, it sure would be nice if they could figure out a way to make it part of the solution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bill from Senators Richard Lugar, left, and Lindsey Graham focuses on energy efficiency at offices and homes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (86%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); POWER PLANTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ACID RAIN (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%)

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



436 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Bond Program Has Unforeseen Costs

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
They are supposed to help states and cities that are short of cash build roads, schools and bridges.
 But Build America Bonds, part of President Obama's economic stimulus plan, are also building something else: controversy. 
 States and cities have embraced these taxable bonds to borrow money at what they assume are favorable interest rates. The federal government pays 35 percent of the interest costs on the bonds, a huge potential saving.
 But questions about this multibillion-dollar program are piling up. 
 For one, Wall Street banks are charging larger commissions for selling Build America Bonds than they do for normal municipal bonds, increasing the costs to the states and cities. For another, the new bonds may be priced too cheaply, enabling quick-footed investors to turn a fast profit as the prices climb, but raising interest costs for taxpayers. 
 Those imbalances have caught the eye of the Internal Revenue Service, which is asking municipalities whether the bonds are being priced and sold correctly. Alarmed by the uncertainty, Florida, which has sold more than $1.6 billion of Build America Bonds, has retreated from the market. 
 As if all this were not enough, Wall Street banks -- which have pocketed hundreds of millions of dollars in fees from the program -- are now releasing research reports warning that states' financial woes may make the bonds less attractive. Some banks are even telling investors how to bet against Build America Bonds.
 While most states have embraced the program, two, California and New York, account for a third of the money raised through it, said Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican from Iowa and a critic of Build America Bonds. ''The program might be better named the Build California and New York Bonds Program,'' Mr. Grassley said.
 The Obama administration wants to make the program permanent, but Senate Republicans last week introduced a bill that would let it expire as scheduled at the end of this year. 
 The program was created in the wake of the financial crisis to expand the traditional tax-exempt municipal bond market and attract a broader audience of investors. The market has exploded in size: More than $109 billion in Build America Bonds has been sold, according from Thomson Reuters, a news and financial data company. 
 ''We're quite thrilled with the program,'' said James L. McIntire, the treasurer of Washington State, which sold $1.1 billion of the bonds a few weeks ago. He estimated that the bonds would save the state $155 million in interest payments. 
 Another clear winner has been Wall Street. Banks have collected nearly $700 million in fees for helping to issue the bonds. (That number is low because fees are not reported in a third of the transactions.) 
 For banks, Build America Bonds are more lucrative than traditional municipal bonds. Weighted by size, municipal issuers paid $6.55 per $1,000 of Build America Bond sold in June, compared with $6.08 for traditional municipal bonds. 
 Bankers argue that the fees are fair because Build America Bonds are new. Over time, they say, the fees have fallen. 
 Even as it sells the bonds, however, Wall Street is thinking about how to play both sides of the new market. In an April 29 report to clients, a Citigroup analyst wrote that investors who are tuned in to the ''widely known municipal budget struggle'' can now use derivatives and other financial mechanisms to sell short Build America Bonds. 
 The I.R.S., which is involved with disbursing the federal subsidies under the program, is taking a closer look at Build America Bonds, too. It is asking states for information on how the bonds were priced after some traded at significantly higher levels shortly after being issued. That could cause municipalities to pay higher yields than necessary. 
 ''When you see bonds sold almost immediately at a different price, that raises a question. It may be fine, or it may not be fine,'' said Steven Miller, deputy commissioner of the I.R.S.
 The I.R.S. scrutiny also raised concerns among some state officials that subsidy payments could be withheld if it were discovered that states owed the government back taxes or money for other federal programs. 
 In March, officials in Austin, Tex., received a letter from the I.R.S. saying the city would not get a $670,000 bond subsidy payment because it owed at least that much in federal tax penalties. 
 ''We were surprised,'' said Art Alfaro, the treasurer of Austin. ''We knew the risk was there, but there's just no way for a big organization like us -- we have 28 departments -- to know if one department owes $10.'' The city is contesting the penalty. 
 More recently, Florida decided to stop selling Build America Bonds given the potential financial implications for the state. 
 ''We had been enthusiastic users of the program,'' said Ben Watkins, the director of bond finance for Florida. The bonds will save Florida an estimated $250 million in interest over the life of the debt, he said. 
 But Florida officials say they now believe that the risk is too great that the state might be denied the subsidies associated with Build America Bonds. 
 ''States are big, complicated entities,'' Mr. Watkins said. ''There's no way for me to effectively manage that risk.'' 
 A handful of states and municipalities, less than 2 percent, have been denied federal subsidies because of money they owed. The Treasury Department said in a statement that Build America Bonds remained popular among states and cities, despite concerns over whether these borrowers might one day lose their subsidies. 
 ''Local governments in nearly every state have saved billions of dollars by using Build America Bonds to finance critical capital projects that are rebuilding infrastructure and creating jobs,'' the statement said. ''It's unfortunate that a state would choose to forgo the opportunity to save its taxpayers millions of dollars simply to avoid paying overdue taxes to the federal government.''
 According to the Treasury, the fees on Build America Bonds ''have been small relative to the significant savings on interest costs.'' Still, analysts are asking whether the program is needed now that the worst of the financial crisis is over. Interest rates, including those that states and cities pay on traditional municipal bonds, are at their lowest levels in decades, said Thomas Doe, chief executive of research firm Municipal Market Advisors, a research company. 
 But taxpayers will be paying the bill for the Build America Bonds program for years, he added. 
 ''What's clear is that the federal government, over the life of the Build America Bond issues, will be writing checks in excess of $50 billion to cover the interest,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A highway project in New Jersey, a major seller of subsidized Build America Bonds. (B1)
 An elementary school being built in Chesterfield, N.J. The state sold $750 million in subsidized Build America Bonds recently. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN BRANCH PRICE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); TAX LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



437 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT CALLS FOR A NEW FOCUS ON ENERGY POLICY

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and JACKIE CALMES; Justin Gillis contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama summoned Americans on Tuesday to a ''national mission'' to move away from reliance on oil and develop alternative sources of energy, casting the massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico as an imperative for Congress to act quickly to overcome ''a lack of political courage and candor.''
 Speaking to a national television audience for the first time from the Oval Office, Mr. Obama also promised a long-term plan to make sure that the gulf states suffering from the oil spill are made whole again. He said he was appointing Ray Mabus, the secretary of the Navy and the former governor of Mississippi, to develop a Gulf Coast restoration plan in cooperation with states, local communities, tribes, fishermen, conservationists and gulf residents.
 Even as Mr. Obama was preparing his speech, the government on Tuesday released a new estimate of the amount of oil flowing from the well. It said as much as 60,000 barrels could be spewing into the Gulf of Mexico each day, a sharp increase over the estimate last week of 25,000 to 30,000 barrels a day. 
 The new estimate, reflecting the increased oil flow that began after a pipe was deliberately cut to help capture some of the oil coming from the well, continues a pattern in which every new estimate has been sharply higher than the one before. With the broken well's owner, BP, capturing roughly 15,000 barrels a day, the new estimate suggests that as much as 45,000 barrels a day is escaping into the gulf, punctuating the scale of the substantive and political problems facing Mr. Obama.
 ''Today, as we look to the gulf, we see an entire way of life being threatened by a menacing cloud of black crude,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We cannot consign our children to this future. The tragedy unfolding on our coast is the most painful and powerful reminder yet that the time to embrace a clean energy future is now.''
 Mr. Obama's 18-minute address, delivered at his desk, took place in an atmosphere far different from the crowded campaign rallies and international university halls where he has produced some of his most soaring speeches. This time, Mr. Obama, wearing a dark blue suit and light blue tie, struck a solemn but hopeful tone, invoked military terminology to create a sense of urgency around his response to the crisis, and spoke of the American ingenuity he said was needed to help the country rein in its reliance on oil.
 He said he had authorized the use of 17,000 National Guard members to help with the cleanup effort, but only a small number have actually been dispatched by the governors in the region even though Mr. Obama has said that BP will pick up the cost. He also continued to strike an adversarial tone toward BP.
 ''We will fight this spill with everything we've got for as long as it takes,'' he said. ''We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused. And we will do whatever is necessary to help the Gulf Coast and its people recover from this tragedy.''
 Seizing on the widening calamity in the Gulf of Mexico to push for legislation he has advocated since his campaign, Mr. Obama said he was willing to look at approaches from Republicans as well as Democrats, including raising efficiency standards for buildings as well as cars and trucks.
 He said progress had been blocked time and time again by ''oil industry lobbyists,'' and he suggested that achieving energy independence was an issue of national security, saying the time has come for the United States to ''seize control of our own destiny.''
 But, he warned: ''The one approach I will not accept is inaction. The one answer I will not settle for is the idea that this challenge is too big and too difficult to meet.''
 Mr. Obama delivered the speech the evening before he was to meet at the White House with the top executives of BP to demand that they agree to establish an independently administered escrow account of billions of dollars to pay claims stemming from the disaster.
 He said he would inform the chairman of BP's board, Carl-Henric Svanberg, ''that he is to set aside whatever resources are required to compensate the workers and business owners who have been harmed as a result of his company's recklessness.''
 Lawyers at the White House and for BP have been negotiating for days about an escrow account. While Mr. Obama has not put a figure on the account, Senate Democrats have called for $20 billion.
 BP released a statement after Mr. Obama's address. ''We share the president's goal of shutting off the well as quickly as possible, cleaning up the oil and mitigating the impact on the people and environment of the Gulf Coast,'' the company said from London. ''We look forward to meeting with President Obama tomorrow for a constructive discussion about how best to achieve these mutual goals.''
 Mr. Obama also moved to address one of the weaknesses exposed by the spill, lax oversight from the agency with the most direct authority to regulate offshore drilling, the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service. He said he had named Michael R. Bromwich, a former Justice Department prosecutor and inspector general, to restructure the agency to make it a tougher regulator.
 Administration officials said the speech marked ''an inflection point'' in the nearly two-month-old crisis: the end of a phase in which BP tried and failed to stop the leak using the quickest available options, and the beginning of the ''new reality'' that plugging the leak could take months and the cleanup months or even years past that.
 The new estimate for the amount of oil spewing from the well is far above the figure of 5,000 barrels a day that the government and BP clung to for weeks after the spill began. It reflects a possible increase in the flow rate that occurred after BP cut an underwater pipe called a riser on June 3 to install a new device to capture part of the oil.
 It is based on new information, including high-resolution video made after the riser cut, and on pressure readings taken by a device that was inserted this week into the equipment at the sea floor. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist, was personally involved in using those pressure readings to help make the latest calculation.
 ''This estimate brings together several scientific methodologies and the latest information from the sea floor, and represents a significant step forward in our effort to put a number on the oil that is escaping from BP's well,'' Secretary Chu said in a statement. ''As we continue to collect additional data and refine these estimates, it is important to realize that the numbers can change.''
 The company has proven in recent days that it can capture roughly 15,000 barrels of oil a day, though the operation was interrupted briefly on Tuesday by a small fire after the Discoverer Enterprise drilling ship was apparently struck by lightning.
 BP has outlined plans to deploy new equipment so that it can capture a minimum of 40,000 barrels a day by the end of June, and a minimum of 60,000 barrels a day by mid-July.
 If the new range of flow estimates proves correct, and if BP is ultimately found guilty of gross negligence in actions it took that led to the Deepwater Horizon disaster, that would mean the company could be assessed fines of up to $258 million a day. Those fines could come on top of payments for cleanup costs and economic damage to Gulf Coast businesses.
 Fearful that the spill could ultimately cost BP tens of billions of dollars, investors have driven the company's market valuation down by 48 percent since the spill began, erasing $91 billion of shareholder value. BP shares rose more than 2 percent during regular trading on Tuesday, but then gave up all that gain and more in after-hours trading.
 Mr. Obama has said all along that BP will pay for everything. People close to BP said that as asset-rich as the global oil giant is, its holdings are not so liquid that it can instantly set aside as many billions of dollars as the White House and leaders in Congress are seeking. Also being worked out are the terms by which BP would have to replenish the fund as it is drawn down.
 BP officials are adamant that the company should not be liable for the lost wages of oil workers laid off because of the six-month moratorium that the Obama administration imposed on deepwater offshore drilling after the Deepwater Horizon explosion and fire. But Interior Secretary Ken Salazar and other administration officials repeatedly have cited idled oil workers as among those who could press claims.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James and Nora Pitre took in the speech in Chalmette, La. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER ZDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
In Chalmette, La., patrons at Rocky & Carlo's restaurant listened to the president's address. Mr. Obama said Americans needed to reduce their reliance on oil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER ZDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Hours before his speech, President Obama and Gov. Charlie Crist visited Casino Beach in Pensacola, Fla., on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); NAVIES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); CHARLIE CRIST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



438 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Oil Executives Break Ranks In Testimony

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The chairmen of four of the world's largest oil companies broke their nearly two-month silence on the major spill in the Gulf of Mexico on Tuesday and publicly blamed BP for mishandling the well that caused the disaster.
 Seeking to insulate their companies from the continuing crisis in the gulf and the political backlash in Washington, the leaders of Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Shell and ConocoPhillips insisted at a Congressional hearing that they would not have made the mistakes that led to the well explosion and the deaths of 11 rig workers on April 20. 
 ''We would not have drilled the well the way they did,'' said Rex W. Tillerson, chief executive of Exxon Mobil. 
 ''It certainly appears that not all the standards that we would recommend or that we would employ were in place,'' said John S. Watson chairman of Chevron.
 ''It's not a well that we would have drilled in that mechanical setup,'' said Marvin E. Odum, president of Shell.
 The hearing was an opportunity for three dozen members of Congress to vent their frustration at top executives of the world's largest privately owned oil companies. The occasion was reminiscent of the 1994 hearing before a panel of the same committee -- the House Energy and Commerce Committee -- at which the chief executives of the major tobacco companies were ritually grilled on the dangers of their products. Top banking executives recently got the same treatment.
 The oil company leaders presented a similar tableau on Tuesday -- a group of middle-aged, dark-suited executives raising their right hands in preparation for nearly five hours of hostile interrogation.
 Democrats generally were seeking confessions of error and expressions of regret. Republicans focused more on the economic impact of the spill and the moratorium on most offshore drilling that President Obama imposed in the aftermath of the disaster. They sought assurances that deepwater drilling could resume safely. 
 But even some Republicans were moved to join the attack on Lamar McKay, president of BP America and designated scapegoat of the day, who was seated at the witness table with the other executives. Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican of Florida, told Mr. McKay that he should resign; another Republican, Representative Joseph Cao of Louisiana, said, ''In samurai days, we would just give you a knife and ask you to commit hara-kiri.''
 Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, chairman of the energy and environment subcommittee that convened the hearing, demanded that Mr. McKay apologize for what Mr. Markey termed the incompetence and deceit that led to consistently low estimates of the size of the spill and the resulting damage.
 After weaving for a bit, Mr. McKay said meekly: ''We are sorry for everything the Gulf Coast is going through. We are sorry for that and for the spill.''
 He refused repeated requests that he promise to place billions of dollars of BP's profits in an escrow fund to pay damage claims, as members of Congress and Mr. Obama have demanded. ''I cannot commit today one way or another to a fund,'' he said. ''We said we'll honor all legitimate claims, and the full company stands behind that.''
 Until now, the other major oil companies had provided technical assistance to BP and refrained from criticizing the company's handling of the disaster. Even as they watched their offshore rigs idled and their stock values fall, they had presented a united front.
 But that unity crumbled Tuesday before the House committee, mirroring growing private frustration with being linked to BP. Some executives have been angered at BP's efforts to paint the gulf accident as an industrywide problem that will require industrywide reforms. The executives of the other companies asserted Tuesday that they believed BP was an outlier, cutting corners to save time and money in ways that they would not tolerate.
 The BP spill came just as the industry was about to realize a long-awaited goal of expanding offshore drilling to new parts of the gulf, the Atlantic Coast and parts of the Arctic. That is now all in question. 
 Although most of the Congressional fire was aimed at BP on Tuesday, the other executives came under criticism as well, particularly for the response plans that they prepared for a major spill in the gulf. The five companies submitted virtually identical plans to government regulators and to the committee. The 500-page document, prepared by a private contractor, refers to measures to protect walruses and gives a phone number for a marine biologist who died five years ago.
 James J. Mulva, chief executive of ConocoPhillips, said the citations were ''certainly an embarrassment to Conoco,'' adding, ''Plans need to be updated more frequently.''
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, noted that each of the companies said it had planned for a much larger spill than the BP accident, even though it is clear that even a spill of the current size is beyond any company's ability to handle. 
 ''BP failed miserably when confronted with a real leak,'' Mr. Waxman said, ''and Exxon Mobil and the other companies would do no better.''
 Mr. Tillerson admitted that the only way to deal with major spills was to keep them from occurring. 
 ''The point is,'' he said, ''we have to take every step to prevent these things from happening, because when they happen we are not well equipped to prevent any and all damage. There will be damage. There is no response capability that will ensure that you won't have an impact.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From right, Lamar McKay of BP, Marvin E. Odum of Shell, James J. Mulva of ConocoPhillips, John S. Watson of Chevron, and Rex W. Tillerson of Exxon Mobil faced nearly five hours of hostile interrogation on Tuesday before a House subcommittee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The prepared remarks of Mr. McKay at Tuesday's hearing (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); POLITICS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (65%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); BP AMERICA INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (71%); EDWARD J MARKEY (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); CLIFF STEARNS (56%); BETSY MARKEY (56%); JAMES MULVA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



439 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Firms Fight Back in a Post-Boom World

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
After taking a battering in the severest recession in modern memory, commercial real estate brokerage firms are trying different strategies to compete in a post-boom world. Some are weighing options for infusions of capital, while others are aggressively hiring or consolidating far-flung affiliates. 
 One of the biggest question marks is the future of Cushman & Wakefield, the world's third-largest commercial real estate brokerage, according to National Real Estate Investor magazine. After losing $127 million in 2009, Cushman & Wakefield recently installed a new chief executive, Glenn Rufrano, whose specialty is turning around troubled real estate firms. The majority stakeholder in the company, the Italian firm Exor, is considering an initial public offering, according to Mr. Rufrano.
 ''Exor is an owner that looks longer term, but like any investor, liquidity is important to them,'' he said. To increase the chance of obtaining this liquidity, either through an I.P.O. or from private financing, Mr. Rufrano is making the firm more financially open. He has a five-year time horizon -- the term of his contract with Cushman. 
 Jones Lang LaSalle, based in Chicago and ranked fourth in the world, recently posted a profit after several losing quarters and began a four-year plan in January to increase its New York-area revenue by 50 percent, in part by hiring brokers away from other companies. Colliers International, which has a global presence but is less well known in the United States, is hoping that a recent move to consolidate its many separate franchises under a single name will help it gain market share and a reputation as a major player in New York.
 At Cushman, Mr. Rufrano faces an uphill battle. While the slowdown in the economy has affected brokerage firms across the board, the firm has been hit particularly hard. In 2009, for example, when Cushman posted a loss -- which it attributed partly to one-time charges like the relocation of its worldwide headquarters in New York -- CB Richard Ellis, the largest global brokerage firm, posted a $33 million profit. 
 One main reason for Cushman's troubles may be a lack of top-down management, those familiar with the firm said. Bruce E. Mosler, who stepped down as chief executive in January, was a powerful broker in his own right and the firm is largely organized into teams that are focused around successful deal makers. These teams may compete with one another for commissions. 
 In comparison, firms like CB Richard Ellis and Colliers International favor grouping brokers together on an ad hoc basis. While there are independent brokerage teams at Jones Lang LaSalle, employees there were compensated with salaries and bonuses instead of commissions until seven years ago, helping establish a more unified culture, the firm says. 
 ''Having individual teams is constraining,'' said Mitchell E. Rudin, president and chief executive officer of the tristate region of CB Richard Ellis. ''Instead, we select teams for a particular assignment, mixing and matching to bring together the best resources.'' While this model serves the clients, it also cuts down on friction between brokers, he said. 
 There is also the issue of Cushman's ownership structure. While it is private, its majority stakeholder, Exor, the investment arm of the Italian Agnelli family, is public. Exor spent $563 million to acquire a 67.5 percent position in Cushman in December 2006, at the height of the market. It later increased its position to 72 percent, and is growing anxious to see its investment turn the corner. 
 The hiring of Mr. Rufrano in February indicates that Exor is preparing an exit strategy, some analysts said. Mr. Rufrano was most recently the chief executive of Centro Properties, one of Australia's largest real estate firms, where he was credited with shoring up the public company's abysmal balance sheet.
 In addition to increasing transparency at Cushman by instituting the same financial disclosures as a public company, Mr. Rufrano is working to unify the firm's management structure. This includes de-emphasizing geographic barriers so that the leasing team in London, for example, can coordinate more closely with colleagues in South America and New York. 
 ''The problem with Cushman is that they are not as big as CB Richard Ellis or Jones Lang LaSalle globally, but they aren't small either,'' said Brandon Dobell, a principal at the investment firm William Blair & Company in Chicago. An I.P.O. is the most likely possibility for the firm, said Mr. Dobell, because private financing is hard to come by and a merger is unlikely as there are few players in the market with whom it would make sense. 
 As Cushman determines its future, Jones Lang LaSalle, which posted a profit of $200,000 in the first quarter of this year compared with a $61 million loss in the same period last year, is focused on increasing revenue. 
 ''When I joined seven years ago,'' said Peter G. Riguardi, president of the firm's New York operations, area revenue ''was below $20 million and it is now more than $120 million. We plan to grow this by another 50 percent over the next four years to bring it to $200 million through a combination of improving market conditions and strategic hiring.'' 
 The firm recently made a splash when it hired away some of Cushman's most prolific deal makers, including much of the capital markets group. The team of Scott Latham, Richard Baxter, Jon Caplan and Ron Cohen was behind some of the largest transactions of the boom era, including the Plaza Hotel and 666 Fifth Avenue.
 Another firm that is undergoing a major shift is Colliers International. The second-largest global brokerage firm, it is largely unknown in the United States. This is partly because of its structure as a loose network of franchises that operate largely independently. Through acquisitions and management changes, the publicly traded FirstService Corporation in Toronto, which owns a number of the Colliers franchises, is consolidating these firms under the Colliers International brand. Firms that decline to join will be forced to drop the Colliers moniker. 
 ''We are in a position where we can't lose any more market share,'' said Mark A. Jaccom, the chief executive of Colliers for the tristate region. ''We can only gain. And we plan to take our competitors' market share out from under them.'' 
 Mr. Jaccom and his team are building up a consulting group and plan to hire 25 or so additional brokers. ''We want our brokers to mine their relationships, to hold our clients' hands throughout the entire process,'' he said. ''Our business is going to be much more sophisticated, where we do an entire playbook and work on everything from workplace solutions to I.T.'' 
 So far a consolidated Colliers has received mixed reviews. David Gold, a senior equity analyst at Sidoti & Company, said he believed ''it will be the firm to watch over the next three years. They used the downturn wisely to grow, and I wouldn't bet against them.''
 Others dismiss the move as nothing more than a name change: ''It takes years to build a brand,'' said Mitchell S. Steir, chief executive officer of Studley, a New York-based brokerage firm that specializes in representing tenants and is a competitor. ''It can't be invented overnight by slapping a new name on a collection of different firms with different philosophies.''
 Whatever the chances of success, industry insiders say it is clear that changes are afoot that could lead to power shifts in the industry. ''Times of turmoil often lead to consolidation and strategy shifts,'' Mr. Dobell said. ''It will be interesting to see how it all plays out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Glenn Rufrano, Cushman & Wakefield's new chief executive, is preparing the firm for a possible stock offering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mitchell E. Rudin of CB Richard Ellis favors ad hoc groupings of brokers rather than formal teams. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); RELOCATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); BONUS PAY (60%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (91%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); JLL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (91%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (91%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (91%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



440 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid Cut to States

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Medicaid Cut Places States in Budget Bind'' (front page, June 8) outlined the dire consequences if Congress fails to approve a six-month extension of higher federal Medicaid assistance to states. With large state budget deficits, high unemployment and Medicaid rolls growing sharply because of the economic downturn, the extension is critical. 
 But it would be especially ironic and shortsighted to let the assistance lapse so soon after the passage of the landmark health care reform legislation. After all, a core part of the new law provides health coverage for Americans with the lowest incomes through a major expansion of Medicaid. Now is not the time to put added pressure on states to cut Medicaid benefits. Congress should pass the extension without further delay.
 Margaret A. Murray Chief Executive Association for Community Affiliated Plans Washington, June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); APPROVALS (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



441 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Import Prices Decline on Lower Petroleum Costs

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
American import prices recorded their largest decline in nearly a year in May as petroleum costs plummeted, according to a government report on Tuesday that bolstered views of tame inflation and low interest rates. 
 Import prices fell 0.6 percent, the biggest decline since July, after rising by a revised 1.1 percent in April, the Labor Department said.
 Although the decline was less than the expectations of economists for a 1.2 percent fall, it was the first drop since February. April import prices were previously reported to have increased 0.9 percent. In the 12 months to May, import prices rose 8.6 percent.
 The monthly decline in import prices reflected a 5 percent fall in the cost of imported petroleum and petroleum products.
 Excluding petroleum, import prices rose 0.5 percent.
 Strength in the dollar was also helping to keep inflation pressures muted. This should allow the Federal Reserve, at next week's policy meeting, to renew its pledge to keep interest rates low to bolster the economy's recovery.
 The Labor Department report showed export prices unexpectedly increased 0.7 percent last month after rising 1.2 percent in April. Analysts had expected export prices to be flat in May. In the 12 months to May, export prices rose 5.8 percent.
 In a separate report, manufacturing in New York State grew in June even as employment declined, supporting the view the factory sector was recovering.
 The Empire State general business conditions index edged up to 19.6 June from May, the report from the New York Federal Reserve said. Economists polled by Reuters had expected a June reading of 20.
 The employment gauge dropped, although it remained positive. The index for the number of employees fell in June from May, while the average employee workweek index rose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (94%); IMPORT TRADE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WORK WEEK (64%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



442 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Results at Best Buy Fall Short of Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Best Buy, the electronics chain store, reported lower-than-expected sales and profit, hurt by rising costs to expand its business and weaker consumer demand, sending its shares down 6.1 percent. 
 The retailer said shoppers were tentative in a seasonally weaker quarter for sales. That has been true for many retailers as unemployment remained high and Europe's economic troubles weighed on a global recovery.
 ''Consumer spending has been episodic,'' the chief executive, Brian J. Dunn, said, adding that it ''appears that our customers are operating on cues from the broader environment.'' 
 Best Buy posted a low-single digit decline in same-store sales of televisions during its first quarter and weak sales of video games, music and movies. Sales of notebook computers and mobile phones rose. Same-store sales increased 2.8 percent over all.
 Analysts also focused on a 12.3 percent increase in selling, general and administrative costs, adding pressure to margins as Best Buy continued a fierce price war against larger retailers like Wal-Mart and Amazon.com.
 ''It is definitely a significant worry,'' Matt Arnold, an analyst at Edward Jones, said. ''When you think about pricing,'' he said, ''there is Amazon and Wal-Mart and a number of other major retailers that are focused on this category, and they predominantly compete on price.'' 
 Net profit was $155 million, or 36 cents a share, for the three-month period ended May 29, compared with $153 million, or 36 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Analysts on average were expecting a profit of 50 cents a share, Thomson Reuters said.
 Selling, general and administrative expenses rose to 23 percent of revenue in the quarter from 21.9 percent a year ago. Best Buy said that increase was driven by new stores, higher investments to raise sales and foreign currency fluctuations.
 Despite the huge miss, Best Buy backed its outlook for the full year. Some analysts remain skeptical.
 Brian W. Nagel, an analyst for Oppenheimer, called the outlook ''aggressive'' and worried that Best Buy's expectations might be a stretch.
 ''I usually applaud companies for making revenue and margin-enhancing investments,'' Mr. Nagel said. ''The concern I have though is that the degree to which Best Buy expects what seems to be an immediate payoff from these investments.'' 
 Shares of Best Buy, based in Richfield, Minn., fell $2.49, or 6.1 percent, on Tuesday to close at $38.56. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (68%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



443 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Tanker Procurement: 2 Congressmen Speak Out

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Tanker, Continued'' (editorial, June 7):
 Your editorial about the KC-X aerial refueling tanker competition doesn't mention the most important issue next to the welfare of our war fighters: American working families. 
 The French do not allow illegal steroids in the Tour de France; the United States should not allow illegal subsidies to steal American jobs.
 We have known for years that the European aerospace consortium EADS received illegal subsidies from European governments, which was recently confirmed by the World Trade Organization. The $5 billion in European launch aid on which EADS is basing its tanker bid has distorted the competition in favor of the foreign competitor -- putting American workers at a huge disadvantage.
 Our amendment, overwhelmingly passed 410 to 8, only requires the Defense Department to consider any potentially unfair competitive advantage a competitor has in the KC-X acquisition process or any successor competition and nullify any such advantage. The amendment is about protecting the rule of law and fair competition, not protectionism.
 This approach is a prudent method of ensuring a level playing field and follows W.T.O. rules because it does not replace the countervailing duty process.
 At a time of significant unemployment, working families deserve a level playing field on which to compete for those jobs.
 Jay Inslee Todd Tiahrt Washington, June 9, 2010
 The writer are, respectively, a Democrat of Washington State and a Republican of Kansas in the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FAMILY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); STEROIDS (57%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (57%); EAD (MCE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JAY INSLEE (69%); TODD TIAHRT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



444 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Losses and Riches in Afghanistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Taking Stock in Afghanistan'' (editorial, June 14) only confirms that the American military effort in that country is becoming a quagmire, on a scale that may go far beyond anything that Iraq might have (or may yet) become.
 Given the increasingly doubtful prospects for counterinsurgency efforts in the face of ''harsh reality,'' it's no surprise that President Hamid Karzai is exploring the option to ''strike a secret deal'' with the Taliban. 
 You write, ''The Americans still haven't figured out how to manage Mr. Karzai.'' Actually, I doubt that the American people are all that interested in managing the leader of a country we're trying to promote as a nascent democracy.
 You write further that Americans ''need to make clear that there's a limit to American patience.'' American ''patience'' is getting a good workout these days, but as far as Afghanistan goes, I believe that polls would show that limit was passed long ago.
 Why are we in Afghanistan? Given recent reports of that country's vast mineral wealth, perhaps any number of American corporations may be considering ''taking stock in Afghanistan'' a pretty good investment right now.
 David Glass Larchmont, N.Y., June 15, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Courage to Leave'' (column, June 12): I wholeheartedly agree with Bob Herbert. In the last few years, we have made no significant political, social and military progress in Afghanistan. Corruption is widespread, the Afghan Army is a joke and we are nowhere near defeating the ragtag, barbaric Taliban fighters. American and allied forces are shedding blood for absolutely nothing.
 American television channels show us ad nauseam dramatic pictures of pelicans covered with oil but barely mention that American soldiers are losing their lives every week. In addition, the war's financial burden is huge.
 Let's have the courage to pull out.
 Bernard Poncin Princeton, N.J., June 12, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Identifies Mineral Riches in Afghanistan'' (front page, June 14):
 Beware of claims that newfound mineral riches will be a quick fix for Afghanistan's problems. Oil-producing countries are famously afflicted by the ''resource curse'' of authoritarianism, corruption and impoverished underclasses.
 Diamond fields in Africa have been the focus of brutal resource wars. Corporate resource grabs in developing countries have led to civil conflict, coups and appalling exploitation.
 Afghanistan is already notoriously corrupt, plagued by warlordism and awash with weapons. Widespread prosperity in Afghanistan is a chimera. Abundant minerals could simply throw fuel on the fire.
 Marc Edelman New York, June 14, 2010
 The writer is a professor of anthropology at Hunter College and the CUNY Graduate Center.
 To the Editor:
 So, Afghanistan now has ''stunning potential'' because of recent discoveries of untapped mineral reserves that will ''become the backbone of the Afghan economy,'' according to those quoted in your article. Wasn't this supposed to be the case in Iraq, whose vast oil reserves were supposed to pay for the American invasion?
 Chris Gilbert Berkeley, Calif., June 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 The sad irony of the front-page articles on Sunday: a chilling report on the gallant sacrifice of our soldiers in a brutal and unwinnable war (''Plunging In to Save Lives in a Bloodier War''), and the astonishing admission by senior military officials that fighting Afghan governmental corruption is as important as the elimination of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, if not more so (''U.S. Intelligence Puts New Focus on Afghan Graft'').
 This war in Afghanistan has little to do with making our country safe from terrorism, and the sooner President Obama understands that, the sooner we get our courageous troops home.
 Keith W. Hall Raleigh, N.C., June 13, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Plunging In to Save Lives in a Bloodier War'':
 As the mother of a former Marine who did two tours of duty in Iraq and a third one in Afghanistan, where he was seriously wounded by a roadside bomb, I would like to thank The New York Times for reminding us so graphically of the brave warriors doing our country's bidding in Afghanistan.
 Steeped in the often frivolous and ugly political demagogy presented to us daily in the media, we can easily forget that there is a lethal war going on in Afghanistan.
 The photographs in your article are a stark reminder of the grave dangers our troops face day and night in that distant land. I particularly want to salute the brave medics and helicopter crews.
 I also thank the reporters and photographers who risk their lives to bring the front home to us. They are unsung heroes.
 Tsung-Mei Cheng Princeton, N.J., June 13, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEFANIE AUGUSTINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); CORRUPTION (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



445 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 SENATORS CHALLENGE 
 Afghanistan Deadline
 The commander of American forces in the Middle East, Gen. David H. Petraeus, confronted intense bipartisan challenges to the Obama administration's decision to set a deadline of July 2011 to start pulling troops out of Afghanistan. PAGE A12 
 NORTH KOREA WARNS U.N. 
 North Korea's ambassador to the United Nations said his country's military would respond forcefully to any Security Council condemnation over the sinking of a South Korean warship, warning that ''our people and army will smash our aggressors.'' PAGE A8 
 FIGHTING EBBS IN KYRGYZSTAN
 Violence ebbed and people began emerging from their barricaded homes in Kyrgyzstan's ethnically torn south, as evidence mounted that days of brutal bloodletting had been deliberately organized to ignite long running tensions between Kyrgyz and Uzbeks. PAGE A13 
 National
 EDUCATION DEPT. DELAYS
 Rules on For-Profit Colleges
 The Department of Education said it had delayed a decision on the most controversial part of proposed new student-aid regulations -- the treatment of for-profit college programs whose graduates do not earn enough to repay their loans. PAGE A17 
 New York
 STUDY SCOURS THE SUBWAY,
 Finding Rats Remain Wily
 The Bloomberg administration is aiming its technocratic lance at a problem so ancient as to predate the city itself: rats. In the first study of its kind, officials scoured the city's subway system to discover what accounts for the perennial presence of rodents, a scourge since the system opened more than a century ago. PAGE A22 
 FLOATING POOL LADY RETURNS
 The Floating Pool Lady, a barge that was remade into an 82-foot-long city parks department swimming pool several years ago, is back from wherever she spent the cold-weather months. The barge will spend the next couple of months where it has summered since 2008, off Barretto Point Park in the Bronx. PAGE A22
 Business
 CLOGGED RAIL LINES
 Stall India's Growth
 As the world looks to India to compete with China as a major source of new global economic growth, India's weak transportation network is stalling progress. PAGE B1 
 MCNEIL RECALLS MORE DRUGS
 McNeil Consumer Healthcare, the Johnson & Johnson unit whose recall of liquid children's Tylenol and other pediatric medicines is under Congressional investigation, said it was recalling additional over-the-counter drugs. PAGE B3 
 Arts
 NEIL YOUNG'S GREENDALE
 Is Now a Graphic Novel
 Neil Young introduced the fictional Northern California town of Greendale and its residents on his 2003 album of that name, then spun it off into a film and more. Now he is visiting again, this time in the form of a graphic novel. PAGE C1 
 Sports
 U.S. AIMS TO AVOID
 Falling Behind Early
 The United States soccer team's penchant for falling behind early in matches could prove dangerous in its coming match with Slovenia, which is crucial to its chances to advance to the next round. PAGE B12 
 EUROPE'S U.S. OPEN DROUGHT
 It has been 40 years since a European golfer won the United States Open, a drought so long that it seems to have passed the notice of many players, regardless of their birthplace. PAGE B15 
 Dining
 FOR THE SNOW CONE,
 An Artisanal Twist
 American food lovers, who seem to be re-examining every humble snack for artisanal potential, are now rethinking the snow cone by turning their attention to shaved ice -- a way of scraping ice so that it falls softly into cups and soaks up the flavor of real summer fruit. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A31
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A31
 Online
 COMPLETE COVERAGE Video of President Obama's address from the Oval Office on Tuesday night, with readers' reactions and additional analysis.
 nytimes.com/politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); PEDIATRICS (72%); RODENTS (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (60%); SOCCER (50%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); MCNEIL CONSUMER HEALTH CARE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010



446 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Bronx Councilman Invites Constituents to Text Him

BYLINE: By NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
In 1844, the first message delivered by Morse code declared, ''What hath God wrought.'' In 1969, ''one small step for man'' ricocheted from the moon. On Monday, in New York City, a brave new experiment began in less grandiose terms: ''Wats Shup.''
 Those were the first words beamed via text message to City Councilman Fernando Cabrera's office as part of a new program called, rather thunderously, ''TEXT-UR-COUNCILMAN.'' 
 The idea was simple: Give New Yorkers, long starved of outlets for kvetching, one more method of sounding off on potholes and parking. (What pleasure is there, after all, in venting to a faceless 311 dispatcher?) 
 In announcing the program, Mr. Cabrera said it marked a ''new age of communication'' - bite-size messages sent instantly from constituent to councilman.
 ''Calling isn't always the first option, and my goal is to have as many open lines of communication to my office as possible,'' said Mr. Cabrera, who represents the Bronx. The messages, sent to (347) 541-5768, go to the councilman's personal cellphone and to an office e-mail address. 
 As of Wednesday morning, Mr. Cabrera's office had received 30 texts on topics like common law marriage and programs for struggling single parents. The office has a turnaround of five minutes on each inquiry.
 One unemployed father of four texted, ''I was wondering if u know anything about this knew unemployment deadline.''
 Some New Yorkers were just looking for a little attention from the councilman. About five of the messages received so far were variations on ''hello.'' 
 -- Javier C. Hernandez
 The Insider: Running Projects These Days 
 Name: Nnenna J. LynchAge: 38Hometown: Grew up in Manhattan; lives in Harlem.Title: Senior policy adviser to the deputy mayor for economic development.
 Claim to fame:A Rhodes scholar and former running champion, Ms. Lynch brings an unusual pedigree to one of City Hall's most powerful corners. In just two years on the job, she has become a top adviser on development issues, serving as the point person on projects like the rezoning of Coney Island, which included the creation of a 27-acre entertainment district. Before serving in government, she was a junior partner at a real estate development firm and an analyst at Goldman Sachs.
 On how lessons of sports can be applied to government:''Discipline and tenacity - it infuses who I am,'' she said. ''When you're trying to do some of the projects you are doing, it requires discipline. You need to stick to it.''
 Most challenging part of her job: ''City government - no matter how you slice, it is a beast,'' she said. She is still learning how to manage the press so as not to get ''a negative angle on things.''
 ''It's about making sure that the right aspects of a different projects are promoted and highlighted,'' she said.
 Worst part of City Hall:The lack of sugary soda options in the mayor's office. (They disappeared amid Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to curb obesity.) ''I'm a little resentful about that,'' she said with a sigh. ''We practice what we preach. Mike knows best.''
 Little-known fact:In 1997, she ran five miles in 25 minutes 35 seconds (averaging a 5-minute-7-second mile); she has appeared in People and Maxim.
 Advice for beginning runners:''Stick with it,'' she said. ''When you get out of shape, get back in shape. It feels awful, awful, awful when you're getting back in shape, but it pays off. Running's not for everyone.''
 -- Javier C. Hernandez
 Making Life Easier for Squeaky Wheels
 You know the type. People who whine about politicians and city government to no end, but when asked why they aren't more involved usually answer with something like, ''I would, but I just don't have the time.'' 
 You may even be one of them.
 One politician, however, is offering an idea that will not give complacent New Yorkers any excuses. 
 Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president and a possible mayoral candidate in 2013, plans to start a Web site by the end of this year that he says will help local government reach significantly more of its citizens in a more efficient and practical way.
 The site, called Speak Up New York, would make it easier for citizens, community leaders and government officials to communicate and organize, Mr. Stringer said.
 The site will have blogs and message boards to make it easier to organize community groups and will also offer workshops and training videos on issues and how city government works. 
 The goal is to reach those who just do not have the time, or perhaps the patience, to have an active voice on their block, community or city at large. 
 ''Some wait three hours at meetings, but some only have three minutes,'' Mr. Stringer said. ''This technology offers us a real opportunity to connect with people when it was not possible before.''
 Mr. Stringer's office and OpenPlans, a nonprofit group focused on technology, are collaborating on the effort, which will cost $100,000 to $200,000 and will be paid for through fund-raising.
 ''It's a way to work collaboratively with, or fight, City Hall,'' Mr. Stringer said.
 -- Stephen Ceasar
 Our City Hall reporters, David W. Chen, Michael Barbaro and Javier C. Hernandez offer an inside look at New York's government. Check back every Wednesday for updates. Got a tip? E-mail CityHallSteps@nytimes.com
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); ZONING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); REAL ESTATE (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (64%); COHABITATION (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



447 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Spill Takes a Heavy Toll on Gulf Workers' Psyches

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- On a normal night, Hong Le, a deckhand on a fishing boat, would be miles out on the water laying nets and lines to catch tuna. Instead, he lies awake in his rented room agonizing over the money he is not sending to his wife and children in Vietnam and the delay in his longtime dream of bringing them here, apparently dashed by the oil spill. 
 At each day passes, Mr. Le, 58, says he feels more hopeless. ''I just wait at home,'' he said hollowly through an interpreter. 
 Beyond the environmental and economic damage, the toll of the mammoth spill in the Gulf of Mexico is being measured in hopelessness, anxiety, stress, anger, depression and even suicidal thoughts among those most affected, social workers say. 
 Mindful of the surge in psychological ailments after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast in 2005, community groups are trying to tend to the collective psyche of fishermen like Mr. Le even as they address more immediate needs like financial aid. 
 When fishermen arrive to pick up emergency aid checks at the Mary Queen of Vietnam Community Development Corporation, a nonprofit group in this city's Vietnamese-American enclave, crisis counselors from Catholic Charities are on hand to screen for signs of emotional distress and to offer help.
 ''Are you having trouble sleeping?'' the counselors ask through interpreters. ''Do you feel out of energy? Do you have thoughts that you would be better off dead?'' 
 Most of the fishermen trooping to the center lack fluency in English or skills beyond fishing, a vocation they have passed on for generations.
 ''They're very distraught,'' said the deputy director of the community development corporation, Tuan Nguyen. ''For a lot of people, fishing is all they know. They don't like handouts. They're very proud. They don't know how tomorrow is going to be.'' 
 Catholic Charities reported this week that of the 9,800 people the counselors had approached since May 1 in Orleans, St. Bernard and Plaquemines Parishes, 1,593 were referred for counseling because of signs of depression. 
 ''It's the fear of losing everything,'' said Representative Anh Cao, a Republican from New Orleans who has assembled a response team to travel along the Gulf Coast to assess constituents' needs. 
 Mr. Cao said he had met two fishermen in Plaquemines Parish who told him they were contemplating suicide. While those cases are ''extreme,'' Mr. Cao said, they reflect how some people ''are approaching a point of despair.''
 Officials with the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals said staff members had counseled 749 people in the last week of May and the first week of June to ''mitigate'' symptoms that could lead to destructive behavior.
 ''Most people are in disbelief,'' said Dr. Tony Speier, deputy assistant secretary of the department's office of mental health. ''There's fear not just for economic survival, but for a way of life.''
 While state officials have emphasized the resiliency of Gulf Coast residents, who suffered through Hurricane Katrina and other major storms like Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008, experts say the region should brace for long-term psychological strain. 
 Researchers who studied the aftermath of the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill said coastal residents of Alaska saw a higher incidence of suicide, divorce, domestic violence and substance abuse. To this day, many are still dealing with the effects of the environmental damage, economic losses and lawsuits. 
 At the Center for Wellness and Mental Health in Chalmette, which opened last year to treat cases of post-traumatic stress disorder lingering from Hurricane Katrina, the staff is checking in on fishermen's families, mining relationships that were forged when volunteers helped rebuild homes after the hurricane. 
 An effort is under way to invite wives to receive counseling and learn breathing techniques and other skills to cope with stress, said Joycelyn Heintz, the coordinator of the center, which was founded by the nonprofit St. Bernard Project and the Health Sciences Center at Louisiana State University.
 Rachel Morris, one of the wives who has agreed to counseling, said her husband, Louis Lund Jr., 34, was a shell of his formerly joyful self. 
 After the oil spill grounded fishing, Mr. Lund managed to get a job cleaning the gulf waters for BP, the oil company responsible for the spill, Ms. Morris said. But he is stricken by the sight of dead fish on his cleanup outings, she said, and for the first time has started to frequent bars with other fishermen. 
 Mr. Lund frets over whether he will be able to pass on his trade to his children, a 13-month-old son and 10-year-old daughter, or even remain in New Orleans, where volunteers just finished rebuilding the family's Katrina-flooded home last October.
 ''When I saw the oil rig explosion on television, I was, like, 'O.K., oil rig explosion,' '' Ms. Morris, 26, said, adding that she told herself to pray for the 11 rig workers who were killed. ''Two days later it was, 'The oil is not stopping.' That's when my husband went from a happy guy to a zombie consumed by the oil spill.''
 She said Mr. Lund had refused to accept counseling. He has lashed out occasionally, she said, venting his anger one evening last week after waiting in line for nearly four hours at the local civic center to pick up his two-week paycheck.
 Asked about his state of mind, Mr. Lund told a reporter: ''If you're not out there in it, you can't comprehend what this is about. We're going to be surrounded by it. You're going to smell it right here.''
 Similar frustration was evident one morning last week at the Mary Queen of Vietnam center, where 50 people who had been waiting since as early as 4 a.m. for the doors to open around 9 a.m. suddenly began shouting, pushing and shoving one another. The commotion was soon quelled, but not the expressions of exhaustion and worry.
 One of the groups hardest hit by the spill is Vietnamese fishermen, who make up a significant part of the about 12,400 commercial licensed fishermen in Louisiana (state officials had no firm estimate, but locals estimate they are as much as a third). 
 Having already experienced displacement -- emigrating from Vietnam and in some cases losing their homes after Hurricane Katrina -- they now face a crisis of epic proportions with an uncertain duration. 
 Interviewed in a sparsely furnished room he rents for $300 a month in a house with bars on the windows, Mr. Le said he was surviving on handouts after a lifetime of self-sufficiency.
 He arrived in the United States in 1979. Nine years ago, he married on a visit home to Phan Thiet in southeastern Vietnam, assuring his wife that one day she would join him here. 
 Mr. Le said he used to send up to $5,000 a year to his wife and their 8-year-old son and 6-year-old daughter. As his family turns to other relatives for support, he is living on an initial payment of $1,200 from BP and whatever aid comes his way.
 In phone conversations, his wife urges him to find a job outside the fishing industry. He applied at two Vietnamese restaurants, but neither would hire him for even the most menial work, Mr. Le said.
 ''I don't know what's going to happen,'' he murmured. ''Any opportunity for work, I'll do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tuan Tran, foreground right, of Catholic Charities restrained a Vietnamese fisherman who became upset while waiting for aid.
 Louis Lund Jr., a fishermen grounded by the spill, was greeted June 7 by his daughter Rebecca, 10, when he returned from cleanup work. His wife, Rachel Morris, foreground, watched. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); DEPRESSION (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); CHILDREN (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SUICIDE (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); OIL SPILLS (71%); HURRICANES (70%); RELIGION (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



448 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Divorce, No-Fault Style

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE COONTZ. 
Stephanie Coontz, a professor of history at Evergreen State College, is the author of ''Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage'' and the forthcoming history ''A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique and American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s.''

 BODY:
Olympia, Wash.
 FORTY years after the first true no-fault divorce law went into effect in California, New York appears to be on the verge of finally joining the other 49 states in allowing people to end a marriage without having to establish that their spouse was at fault. Supporters argue that no-fault will reduce litigation and conflict between divorcing couples. Opponents claim it will raise New York's divorce rate and hurt women financially. 
 So who's right? The history of no-fault divorce may provide some answers as the New York State Assembly takes up its versions of the divorce legislation passed by the Senate on Tuesday. Before no-fault, most states required one spouse to provide evidence of the other spouse's wrongdoing (like adultery or cruelty) for a divorce to be granted, even if both partners wanted out. Legal precedent held that the party seeking divorce had to be free from any ''suspicion that he has contributed to the injury of which he complains'' -- a pretty high bar for any marital dispute. 
 In 1935, for example, reviewing the divorce suit of Louise and Louis Maurer, the Oregon State Supreme Court acknowledged that the husband was so domineering that his wife and children lived in fear. But, the court noted, the wife had also engaged in bad behavior (she was described as quarrelsome). Therefore, because neither party came to the court ''with clean hands,'' neither deserved to be released from the marriage.
 As the Maurer case suggests, such stringent standards of fault often made it easier for couples who got along relatively well to divorce than for people in mutually destructive relationships. Cooperating couples would routinely fabricate grounds for their divorce, picking one party as the wrongdoer. 
 This strategy was so common in the 1950s that divorce cases seemingly gave the lie to Tolstoy's famous observation that every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. ''Victim'' after ''victim'' testified that the offending spouse had slapped him or her with exactly the same force and in exactly the same places that the wording of the law required. A primary motivation for introducing no-fault divorce was, in fact, to reduce perjury in the legal system. 
 Initially, some states limited no-fault divorce to cases in which both partners wanted to dissolve the marriage. In theory, limiting no-fault to mutual consent seemed fairer to spouses who wanted to save their marriages, but in practice it perpetuated the abuses of fault-based divorce, allowing one partner to stonewall or demand financial concessions in return for agreement, and encouraging the other to hire private investigators to uncover or fabricate grounds for the court. Expensive litigation strained court resources, while the couple remained vulnerable to subjective rulings based on a judge's particular opinion about what a spouse should put up with in a marriage.
 Eventually every state except New York moved to what is in effect unilateral no-fault, wherein if one party insisted that his or her commitment to the marriage had irretrievably ended, that person could end the union (albeit with different waiting periods). New York has been the holdout in insisting that a couple could get a no-fault divorce only if both partners agreed to secure a separation decree and then lived apart for one year. Otherwise, the party who wanted the divorce had to prove that the other was legally at fault.
 In every state that adopted no-fault divorce, whether unilateral or by mutual consent, divorce rates increased for the next five years or so. But once the pent-up demand for divorces was met, divorce rates stabilized. Indeed, in the years since no-fault divorce became well-nigh universal, the national divorce rate has fallen, from about 23 divorces per 1,000 married couples in 1979 to under 17 per 1,000 in 2005.
 Even during the initial period when divorce rates were increasing, several positive trends accompanied the transition to no-fault. The economists Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers of the University of Pennsylvania report that states that adopted no-fault divorce experienced a decrease of 8 to 16 percent in wives' suicide rates and a 30 percent decline in domestic violence. 
 Social changes always involve trade-offs. Unilateral divorce increases the risk that a partner who invests in her (or more rarely, his) marriage rather than in her own earning power, and does not engage in ''bad behavior,'' may suffer financially as well as emotionally if the other partner unilaterally ends the marriage. When courts have not taken this sacrifice into account in dividing property, homemakers have been especially disadvantaged. 
 Fairer division of marital assets can reduce the severity of this problem. And fault can certainly be taken into account in determining spousal support if domestic violence or other serious marital misbehavior has reduced the other party's earning power. 
 Still, the ability of one partner to get a divorce over the objections of the other may create an atmosphere in which people think twice before making sacrifices that will be costly if the marriage ends. Professor Stevenson found that in states that allow unilateral divorce, individuals tend to be slightly less likely to invest in marriage-related capital, like putting the partner through school, and more likely to focus on building individual, portable capital, like pursuing their own education or job experience. 
 Unilateral divorce has decreased the bargaining power of the person who wants the marriage to last and has not engaged in behavior that meets the legal definition of fault. On the other hand, it has increased the bargaining power of the person who is willing to leave. So while some marriages end more quickly than they otherwise would, other couples enter marital counseling because one partner's threat of divorce convinces the other that it is time to work seriously on the relationship. 
 Contrary to conventional wisdom, it is more often the wife than the husband who is ready to leave. Approximately two-thirds of divorces -- including those that come late in life -- are initiated by wives. Paula England, a senior fellow at the Council on Contemporary Families, found that surveys that separately ask divorced wives and husbands which one wanted the divorce confirm that more often it was the woman who wanted out of the marriage. This jibes with research showing that women are physiologically and emotionally more sensitive to unsatisfactory relationships.
 It's true that unilateral divorce leaves the spouse who thinks the other's desire to divorce is premature with little leverage to slow down the process or to pressure the other partner into accepting counseling. It allows some individuals to rupture relationships for reasons many would consider shallow and short-sighted. 
 But once you permit the courts to determine when a person's desire to leave is legitimate, you open the way to arbitrary decisions about what is or should be tolerable in a relationship, made by people who have no stake in the actual lives being lived. After all, there is growing evidence that marital counseling can repair some marriages even after infidelity, which New York has long accepted as a fault sufficient to end a marriage. But that does not mean New York should reduce its existing grounds for divorce even further. 
 A far better tack is to encourage couples to mediate their parting rather than litigate it, especially if children are involved. In a 12-year study of divorcing couples randomly assigned to either mediation or litigation, the psychologist Robert Emery of the University of Virginia and his colleagues found that as little as five to six hours of mediation had powerful and long-term effects in reducing the kinds of parental conflict that produce the worst outcomes for children. Parents who took part in mediation settled their disputes in half the time of parents who used litigation; they were also much more likely to consult with each other after the divorce about children's discipline, moral training, school performance and vacation plans. 
 Paradoxically, people who went through mediation were also more likely to express regret over the divorce in the ensuing years than those who litigated. But New York legislators should face the hard truth that there are always trade-offs in the imperfect world of intimate relationships. To my mind it is better to have regrets about the good aspects of your former marriage because you were able to work past some of your accumulated resentments than to have no regrets because you had to ratchet up the hostility to get out in the first place. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY CHRIS RUBINO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); LITIGATION (76%); EVIDENCE (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: OREGON SUPREME COURT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



449 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: New Autoworkers Leader Hopes to Revitalize Union

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- As a young law student and electrician apprentice at the Ford Motor Company's mammoth Rouge factory complex, Bob King won support from co-workers who agreed with his radical viewpoints.
 Nearly 30 years later, Mr. King, who rose through the ranks of the United Automobile Workers union to become a vice president, was booed at that same plant last fall by some workers who saw him as too eager to swallow the company line. Undaunted, he stayed several more hours to explain his position, but 70 percent of Ford workers across the United States voted to reject the contract changes he endorsed.
 Now Mr. King, who was elected Wednesday as the U.A.W.'s 10th president, has to show that the union has caught up with today's economic realities while demonstrating to workers that he still embraces the old union principles. 
 Mr. King's efforts to connect with workers gave him an easy victory in a roll-call vote of convention delegates here. But dissidents had nominated their own candidate to challenge Mr. King. It was the first time since 1992 that the candidate endorsed by union leaders faced opposition. 
 The opposition candidate, Gary Walkowicz, and other dissidents circulated a flier at the convention saying: ''Our lives, our standard of living, our prospects for the future have been seriously damaged by years of concessions given to incredibly wealthy corporations. We cannot give in to company demands every time they cry poor.''
 The disagreement pointed to the fissures Mr. King confronts, particularly among factions fighting concessions granted by the union in recent years. He must walk a fine line: press too hard and risk driving more workers out of jobs, but get too little and the union, whose membership has hit a 70-year low, weakens further.
 Harley Shaiken, a labor expert and professor at the University of California, Berkeley, suggested that Mr. King, an often fiery free thinker, could be exactly the leader to burnish the union's image and reinvigorate its membership.
 ''He's very seasoned, but he retains the idealism he had when he first walked through the gates of the Rouge,'' said Professor Shaiken, who has known Mr. King for many years. ''There's no guarantee of success, but if anyone can succeed, it's him.''
 At the top of Mr. King's agenda is a principle he calls ''equality of gain'': demanding that, as the Detroit automakers recover, U.A.W. members are rewarded for the sacrifices forced upon them to the same degree as executives, white-collar workers and investors. The companies must negotiate a new union contract next year, when all three are expected to be profitable.
 ''The last eight years, we've had to focus so much on a defensive, save-the-industry strategy,'' Mr. King said in an interview. ''We now will have the opportunity to refocus the agenda.''
 Mr. King, who at age 63 is only two years younger than his retiring predecessor, Ron Gettelfinger, and a career union man, hardly represents new blood atop the U.A.W., which bailout opponents frequently blamed for dragging General Motors and Chrysler into bankruptcy last year. 
 Rolling back some concessions is just one of many goals Mr. King, the father of five, hopes to achieve in his single, four-year term. (Under a longstanding union policy, officers cannot seek re-election after age 65.)
 He intends to increase the union's membership, through new jobs in and out of the auto industry. As the head of Local 600 in the 1980s, Mr. King organized a group of 1,000 health care workers into what had been a Ford-only chapter. 
 More than a quarter of the U.A.W.'s 355,000 members today have no connection to autos or manufacturing, and he sees nontraditional fields like higher education and casino gambling as having the highest potential for growth.
 He is upset by the number of vehicles that carmakers, including the domestic ones, import from Mexico and other lower-wage countries.
 And he grows more visibly angry when discussing executive pay. He noted that Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, has earned nearly $100 million in compensation since arriving in 2006, while the average U.A.W. worker has given up $7,000 to $30,000 a year in pay and benefits.
 To some, Mr. King's passion, work ethic and ability to inspire evoke one of the U.A.W.'s most revered names, Walter P. Reuther, the longtime president who built the union into a powerful force.
 Compared with Mr. Gettelfinger, whose eight-year tenure was among the most difficult and grim periods in the union's 75-year history, Mr. King is expected to bring a more hands-on and unconventional approach to negotiations.
 ''Ron is very plain-spoken and gets to the point quickly,'' William Clay Ford Jr., executive chairman of Ford, told reporters in December, when union leaders endorsed Mr. King. ''Bob is more cerebral.''
 The U.A.W. will enter next year's negotiations in the unprecedented position of owning a majority of Chrysler and a portion of G.M., through a retiree health care trust fund that gained stakes as a result of their bankruptcies.
 ''Nobody else has as long-term an interest as workers,'' Mr. King said. ''We don't care about the profits tomorrow as much as we do about making sure this company is viable in five years. We're the stakeholders with the most long-term interests.''
 Mr. King is known to join picket lines himself -- he did so in February when Toyota was planning to close a unionized California plant -- and actively fight for numerous causes outside the auto industry.
 ''Bob sees the labor movement as a social movement,'' said Bernie Ricke, the president of U.A.W. Local 600, the chapter in Dearborn, Mich., where Mr. King began his career. 
 Mr. King said he was pleased that Toyota had decided to reopen the California plant to build electric cars with a small automaker, Tesla, but that his fight there was not over. He plans to make sure Toyota rehires the workers it laid off, saying that is ''the only fair thing to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob King, left, was elected president of the U.A.W. on Wednesday, and General Holiefield, a vice president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



450 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: BP's Fund for Spill Victims Helps Steady Market

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
An agreement by the oil giant BP to put $20 billion into a fund for victims of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill lifted the stock market off its lows and sent the major indexes to a narrowly mixed finish.
 BP also canceled a dividend payment totaling about $2.6 billion that was scheduled for Monday and it said it would not declare a dividend for the second and third quarters. 
Investors viewed the news as an end to the uncertainty about BP's stability, and that helped steady the overall market. The Dow Jones industrial average rose about 4 points, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell less than a point and the Nasdaq composite index was virtually unchanged.
 BP's plans to place $20 billion in a fund to compensate victims were announced after a meeting between BP executives and President Obama. Traders had been questioning how BP would handle the mounting costs of the spill, which began April 20 when a rig owned by BP exploded.
 ''One source of uncertainty has been at least partially resolved,'' said Brian Gendreau, a market strategist with Financial Network Investment Corporation.
 The market began the day by falling on news that home construction and applications for building permits slumped in May after a home buyer tax credit ended. Meanwhile, FedEx Corporation released a disappointing profit forecast for the fiscal year that began June 1, and that raised more questions about a recovery. FedEx is often considered a barometer of the economy because shipping demand tends to increase as business conditions improve. The stock fell almost 6 percent.
 The Commerce Department's report on housing raised concerns that weaker demand for homes would hurt an economic rebound. Construction of homes and apartments fell 10 percent from a month earlier to an annual rate of 593,000, well below the 650,000 economists had forecast. A 17 percent drop in construction of single-family homes was the largest since January 1991.
 Applications for building permits fell 5.9 percent to the lowest level in a year. Analysts had forecast an increase. Demand for permits is an indicator of home-building activity. The weaker-than-expected numbers followed the expiration in April of a tax credit for home buyers.
 Kevin L. Smith, a housing market analyst at Chapdelaine Credit Partners in New York, said the drop in the home construction and permit numbers extended a string of choppy readings since October, and that it was too soon to tell how housing would hold up. He noted that the previous month had been the best in more than two years.
 ''It's going to be a bumpy ride,'' Mr. Smith said. He said housing would not make a strong recovery until unemployment fell and overall confidence grew.
 The home buyer's credit was part of the government package of stimulus measures intended to help the economy recover from the mortgage and financial crises of 2008. Investors have been uneasy about what would happen when the government started to pull back on those measures.
 The Dow rose 4.69 points, or 0.05 percent, to 10,409.46, its fourth advance in five days. During morning trading, the Dow was down as much as 72 points.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.62, or 0.06 percent, to 1,114.61, and the Nasdaq crept up 0.05 to 2,305.93.
 Wednesday's trading reflected the juggling act by investors for months. While many of the economic signs continue to show the recovery is proceeding, news like the home construction figures and the FedEx forecast have created doubt.
 And the still unresolved economic problems in several European countries remain a threat to the market's own recovery from its sharp losses of the last six weeks.
 The Dow is still down more than 7 percent from the 2010 high of 11,205.03, reached April 26.
 Bond prices edged higher, pushing down interest rates. The price on the 10-year Treasury bond rose 12/32 to 102. The yield slipped to 3.26 percent from 3.30 percent late Tuesday.
 FedEx fell $4.94, or 6 percent, to $78.07. The company said its fiscal 2011 outlook was based on the assumption of a continued ''moderate recovery'' in the global economy.
 Shares of the cellphone maker Nokia fell 10.7 percent on Wednesday to $8.77 after it said that its earnings this year would face tough competition from rivals.
 Crude oil rose 73 cents to $77.67 a barrel in New York trading.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
Capacity Utilization Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve)
The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department)
 Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); OIL SPILLS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (94%); FEDEX CORP (82%); FINANCIAL NETWORK INVESTMENT CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (94%); BP (LSE) (94%); FDX (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (82%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (82%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010



451 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Posts $419 Million In Profit For Quarter

BYLINE: By SUSANNA G. KIM

 BODY:
FedEx, the package delivery company, swung to a fourth-quarter profit on Wednesday and offered a conservative outlook that relied on international sales, an area that also led growth in the last three months.
 FedEx reported a profit of $419 million in the fourth quarter, in contrast to a loss of $876 million in the quarter a year ago. The company said it had net income of $1.18 billion for 2010, up from $98 million a year ago.
 Revenue rose 20 percent, to $9.43 billion, in the quarter that ended May 31. Earnings were $1.33 a share, in the upper range of its forecast of $1.17 to $1.37. The company lost $2.82 a share in the quarter a year ago. Analysts, including Matthew S. Brooklier of the Piper Jaffray investment firm, expected $1.32 a share. 
 But the share price fell 5.95 percent after FedEx offered a subdued forecast based on stable fuel prices and ''a continued moderate recovery.'' FedEx forecast earnings of $4.40 to $5 for 2011, driven by international trade that seemed unhampered by European sovereign debt concerns and volatile financial markets. Analysts had expected a 2011 forecast of $5.05 a share.
 ''I think the $5 is a great number,'' the managing director of Morgan Keegan, Arthur W. Hatfield, said. ''It won't be the peak number. It will go up from there. We should continue to see growth beyond the $5 number.''
 FedEx's chief financial officer, Alan B. Graf Jr., said in a statement that the company's outlook included higher pension and health care costs as well as aircraft maintenance.
 Mr. Hatfield said the softer-than-expected outlook for the year was still positive news.
 ''What was most important about the guidance was internal cost issues ramped up, but it's not the economy,'' said Mr. Hatfield about the aircraft maintenance, employee compensation and health care costs. ''They still think the economy is going to grow.'' 
 While FedEx's results are typically considered a bellwether for the United States economy, Daniel L. Ortwerth, transportation analyst with the Edward Jones investment firm, said he would ''caution anyone to interpret these results as a strong positive indicator for the U.S.'' because FedEx's growth outlook focused on its services abroad.
 ''A company in this business needs to think globally, and that's exactly what this company is doing,'' he said.
 The company freight segment, which is largely dependent on North America, reported a $36 million loss in the quarter on lower yields and higher volume-related costs, compared with a loss of $106 million a year ago. 
 Kevin W. Sterling, senior vice president of BB&T Capital Markets, said the 23 percent increase in FedEx's International Priority average daily package volume, mainly because of exports from Asia, was impressive.
 FedEx spent $2.8 billion on capital expenditures for the fiscal year. The company projects capital expenditures of $3.2 billion next year, also to bolster its international services. 
 The $3.2 billion exceeded Mr. Ortwerth's estimates, but he said he considered it a sign the company had the financial health to continue its expansion. 
 David J. Bronczek, the chief executive of FedEx Express, said financial events in Europe did not stunt FedEx Express's business in Europe. ''We've seen solid growth in Europe, as our numbers would indicate, double-digit growth,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FedEx plans to spend $3.2 billion in 2011 to bolster its profit-making international service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (79%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); EDWARD D JONES & CO LP (83%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); PJC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



452 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Dividends Like BP's Look Safe, Until They're Not

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
If you own BP shares and rely on the dividends for your retirement income, you now matter less than shrimp boat owners and tourism workers in the Gulf of Mexico.
 That's the net result of the announcement on Wednesday that BP will suspend its dividend and set aside money for cleanup costs and the compensation of workers who have lost income because of the oil spill. 
 Whether the federal government was right to pressure BP to make this move (and whether BP should have buckled) is a question for the ages. But if you're an investor in BP and rely on dividend income to pay your daily expenses, this should serve as another reminder that relying on one stock or even a handful of stocks is incredibly risky. 
 We've seen this movie before. Wachovia disappeared, hobbling many investors who counted on its dividends. Other big banks reduced their payouts drastically in the depths of the financial crisis. General Electricslashed its dividend as well.
 This should have been a warning for anyone making big retirement bets on a single stock or a handful of stocks. Things that seem stable can wobble and collapse before our very eyes. And now it's happening again.
 It's not supposed to work this way, at least in the minds of the many investors of the old school. To them, a stock that pays a dividend is a stock that is safe. ''It told them that a company was still around and operating, it was in good health,'' said Milo M. Benningfield, a San Francisco financial planner.
 Just because a company pays a dividend now is no guarantee that it will forever, or that the company will even continue to exist. Nor is it any guarantee that the underlying stock is stable. Steven Podnos, a financial planner in Merritt Island, Fla., notes that the iShares Dow Jones Select Dividend Index exchange-traded fund, which contains stocks that offer high annual yields through dividends, underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the last five years.
 Still, plenty of people strap on the blinders and maintain their faith in the stocks they think they know well. A frightening article in the trade newspaper Pensions & Investments on Monday estimated that BP employees and others in the company's 401(k) plan had lost more than $1 billion from the stock's decline in the wake of the spill. 
 How can the loss be so high? Well, 29 percent of the plan's assets were invested in BP stock as of last September. This, sadly, is yet another violation of the too-many-eggs-in-one-basket rule that company plan sponsors should have had inscribed in stone for employees -- even before the Enron collapse and the resulting devastation in employee retirement accounts there.
 Employees or retired employees are not alone. Devotees of white-hot companies (Apple comes to mind) simply refuse to believe that anything bad could befall the stock. Retirees reliant on dividend income may be averse to change if a stock has paid out regularly for decades. Others may have inherited a big slug of stock and may simply not know any better. Then there are those who are so tax-averse that they won't diversify their holdings because they don't want to give up some of their winnings to capital gains taxes.
 If you know people who might fall into these categories, please do them a favor and send them to a financial planner post-haste if you can't talk some sense into them yourself. 
 Or you could simply try to scare them. Very few people saw a spill of this magnitude coming, just as only a small number could have predicted a few years back that financial stocks would go from contributing 29 percent of the dividend payments of S.& P. 500 payments in 2007 to just 9 percent in 2009.
 Today, consumer staples stocks contribute more than any other sector, according to Howard Silverblatt of S.& P. How might that sector or parts of it deteriorate? A prolonged terrorist campaign against large American retailers could begin, or a blight could emerge that wipes out a large percentage of the nation's crops. 
 These things are unlikely but entirely possible, and they wouldn't be a total surprise. Tempted by utilities? Mr. Benningfield suggested contemplating the remote possibility of solar flares frying the power grid.
 As of Wednesday, there is now political risk to consider, too. Now that there is a recent precedent, legislators could again try to bully a company into suspending its dividends.
 And if that weren't worry enough for dividend fans, we must also rely on those same legislators to sort out our tax policy. Currently, no one pays more than a 15 percent federal tax on dividend income. If Congress does not act before the end of the year, however, investors will start paying much higher ordinary income tax rates on dividends come 2011. ''Where it will wind up, no one knows,'' said Kenneth L. Powell, a tax partner at the accounting firm Berdon L.L.P. in New York. Wealthier investors, meanwhile, may pay even more once a 3.8 percent Medicare tax on unearned income begins in 2013.
 Everyone needs income in retirement, and dividends aren't a bad way to get it as long as they don't come from a single company. Again and again, we've seen out-of-nowhere scandals and crises and accidents bring big companies to their knees. Why, given the overwhelming evidence that these things do happen once in a while, would you not extract your dividend income from a low-cost, broadly diversified mutual fund that specializes in dividends?
 The moral of the story, as always, is to diversify within each asset class you own, whether it's dividend-paying stocks or municipal bonds or the emerging-market countries where you're rolling the dice for big gains. Then, diversify your retirement income, too. The more sources the better, whether it's dividend income, interest income, annuity income, rental income or periodic (and tax-savvy) outright sales of stocks or other assets.
 Even this sort of diversification might not have protected you from the pain in 2008. But it can shield you from the ruin of betting too heavily on a single security like BP.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BP cut its dividend, a blow to investors who had not diversified. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



453 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: As Buyers Get Picky, the Housing Market Slows

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Before the recession, people simply looked for a house to buy. Later they got squeamish just thinking about buying. Now they are on a quest for perfection at the perfect price.
 Exacting buyers are upending the battered real estate market, agents and other experts say, leading to last-minute demands for multiple concessions, bruised feelings on all sides and many more collapsed deals than usual.
 It is a reversal of roles from the boom, when competing buyers were sometimes reduced to writing heartfelt letters saying how much they loved the house and how they promised to eternally worship the memory of the previous owners. These days, it is the buyers who are coldly seeking the absolute best deal while the sellers are left in emotional turmoil.
 ''We see buyers who must have learned their moves from the World Wrestling Federation,'' said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of the online broker Redfin. ''They think the final smack-down occurs at the inspection, where the seller will be reluctant to refuse any demand because the alternative is putting the house back on the market as damaged goods.'' 
 Everyone expected the housing market to suffer at least a temporary hangover after the government's $8,000 tax credit expired, but not necessarily this much. Preliminary data from around the country indicates that the housing market began swooning last month immediately after the credit was no longer available. In some places, sales dropped more than 20 percent from May 2009, when the worst of the financial crisis had subsided.
 Builders have been affected too. Construction of new homes in May dropped 17.2 percent from April, the Commerce Department said Wednesday, significantly lower than forecast. Permits for future construction dropped 10 percent, suggesting a cruel summer. 
 Even the lowest home mortgage rates in decades are not doing much to invite deals. The Mortgage Bankers Association said Wednesday that applications for loans to buy houses were down by a third compared with last year. Applications are back to the level of the mid-1990s, when the country's housing market was smaller.
 Against such a backdrop of misery, buyers are empowered -- and are taking full advantage. 
 John Porter Simons, a Seattle software engineer, thought he had a couple willing to pay $340,000 for his house. But they asked for $24,000 worth of work, most of which involved waterproofing the basement. ''It was totally irrational,'' said Mr. Simons. ''My basement has never flooded. I live on a hill.'' 
 He made a counteroffer to their offer, and the buyers walked. The house is now under contract to a new set of buyers, who got a cut in price and $2,500 in electrical work thrown in.
 Buyers, of course, say they are merely being smart.
 Chris Dunn, an economic consultant in Chicago, saw a house he liked last month for $539,000. He offered $500,000, but then his inspector told him that he would eventually have to replace the windows. The sellers were persuaded to kick in $10,000 more to pay for the work.
 ''We didn't feel we were being that aggressive,'' said Mr. Dunn. ''We had the position, 'If the seller is willing to come down enough, we will buy this home.' If they weren't willing, we would have just moved on. In this market, you have a lot of options.'' 
 In some cases, agents say, sellers literally cannot afford to make concessions. Another $10,000 will push them underwater, which means they will have to arrange the sale through the bank.
 ''People cashed in on their houses to get money to go on vacation, for a new roof, to send the kids to college,'' said Roberta Baldwin, an agent in Montclair, N.J. ''They thought it was always going to be worth more.''
 Even when a sale can be worked out, it is not uncommon for everyone to walk away feeling more aggrieved than celebratory.
 ''Buyers feel they're not appreciated for simply making an offer,'' Ms. Baldwin said. ''And sellers feel humiliated and even angry. They expected to do better.''
 Information about scuttled deals tends to be anecdotal, but Mike Lyon of Lyon Real Estate in Sacramento estimates that 15 to 17 percent of sales in his area are falling apart at the last minute as sellers prove unable or unwilling to give buyers what they want. In a normal market, he said, the figure is about 5 percent.
 ''This is the fallout from all the foreclosures: Buyers think that anyone who is selling must be desperate,'' said Mr. Lyon, who employs about a thousand agents. ''They walk in with the bravado of, 'The world's coming to an end, and I want a perfect place.' ''
 The tax credit, for all its flaws, may have helped avert financial Armageddon, but the final effect is still being tallied. In Indianapolis, the number of contracts signed in May was down 32 percent compared with May 2009. They dropped nearly 25 percent in Minneapolis/St. Paul, 20 percent in Seattle, 10 percent in Sacramento and 42 percent in Hartford. (A few areas, including Miami, showed improvements instead of declines.)
 Pending contracts, if they are not canceled at the last minute, become official in six to eight weeks. Many deals done in April, when the credit was in effect, are still being completed and will be counted in May or June sales reports. So the severity and extent of the current slump will not become clear until fall.
 The optimists, and real estate remains full of them, say the trough is temporary. The stimulus might have stolen sales from May but by July, they argue, people will need to buy again. 
 Indeed, the Mortgage Bankers Association's purchase application index ticked up slightly this week after five weeks of decline, although the association declined to say the index had bottomed out. 
 John P. Johnson of Des Moines will continue to hope, as he has for more than two years now, for a market that is healthy enough to supply him with a buyer. His house, built in 1981, is too recent to be charming and too old to be new. 
 ''When we upgraded the kitchen, we put in Corian countertops, which were fashionable at the time, but now they all want granite,'' he said.
 He had one offer in the fall, which fell apart when the buyer made too many demands (a shaved sales price plus paying the closing costs and all their other fees). Despite another price cut to $204,000, only one couple showed up at the last open house. His agent tells him the market is dead. The number of contracts signed in Des Moines in May was down 47 percent from last year.
 ''Keeping this house ready to sell is a full-time job,'' said Mr. Johnson. ''I never thought I'd be spending my retirement doing this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A house being built in St. George, Utah. Construction of new homes fell more than 17 percent in May compared with April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE FREY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A4) CHART: Still Depressed: An index that measures applications to buy homes has fallen to its 1997 level. (Source: Bloomberg) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONTUSIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); SALES FIGURES (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); BUILDING PERMITS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ST GEORGE, UT, USA (59%) UTAH, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



454 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Much Talk of Teaching Career, but Not Its Brevity

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Emma Graves Fitzsimmons contributed reporting from Chicago, and Caroline Crampton from London.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, a Republican candidate for the United States Senate, has often reminisced about his time as a teacher.
 On the floor of the House, in campaign commercials and during interviews, Mr. Kirk has invoked his experience in the classroom. At a speech this spring to the Illinois Education Association, Mr. Kirk declared, ''as a former nursery school and middle school teacher, I know some of what it takes to bring order to class.''
 A review of public comments that Mr. Kirk has made over the last decade shows that while he may refer to himself as a former teacher, he does not talk about the brevity of his experience: a year in London at a private school and part-time in a nursery school as part of a work-study program while he was a student at Cornell University. 
 The biographies of political candidates are receiving extra scrutiny this year, as accusations of embellishments or exaggerations have touched Democrats and Republicans. With an unusually high number of candidates on the ballot, strategists in both parties are beefing up their teams of researchers to pore over resumes line by line.
 The background of Mr. Kirk, a five-term congressman who is running for the Senate seat once held by President Obama, has come under additional examination after he apologized this month for errors and discrepancies about his military record.
 His Democratic rival, Alexi Giannoulias, is raising questions about Mr. Kirk's classroom experience, including his time as a nursery school teacher. The Giannoulias campaign provided The New York Times several examples of Mr. Kirk referring to himself over the years as a former teacher. The comments were verified and more imprecise references were found by The Times as it reviewed his background.
 Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the Kirk campaign, said that his work in the nursery at a United Methodist ministry called Forest Home Chapel in Ithaca, N.Y., took place in his final year of college in 1981. The campaign did not provide verification, and it could not be independently confirmed. A longtime member of the church who had a son in the nursery around the same time said she did not recall any male teachers.
 ''Like many Americans, Mark Kirk worked during college to help pay for school,'' Ms. Kukowski said. ''One of his jobs was a nursery school teacher with the responsibilities one would expect.''
 Ms. Kukowski said that the congressman's full-time experience as a teacher came after he received a master's degree at the London School of Economics during the 1982-83 school year at Milestone College, a private college preparatory school in London, where he taught European history and English. The school, in the Kensington neighborhood, closed in 1993, according to the Department of Educational Services in Britain.
 In a speech on the House floor on Sept. 19, 2006, as he talked about school safety, Mr. Kirk spoke about ''the kids who were the brightest lights of our country's future, and I also remember those who bore scrutiny as people who might bring a gun to class.'' 
 Mr. Kirk declined an interview on Wednesday to talk about his time as a teacher. His spokeswoman said the congressman was referring to nursery school students in Ithaca, not his students in London, during that speech on the House floor in 2006.
 ''Congressman Kirk's formative experiences in the classroom stayed with him,'' Ms. Kukowski said in a statement.
 In a House Budget Committee hearing five years earlier, shortly after Mr. Kirk arrived in Congress, he talked about his time as ''a teacher, both nursery and middle school.'' He added, ''I did leave the teaching profession, but if we had addressed some of the teacher development issues, which I want to raise with you, I might have stayed.''
 Mr. Kirk left Milestone College in 1983 and began working on the staff of an Illinois congressman, John Porter, the following year and did not return to teaching.
 The Senate race in Illinois is among the most closely watched in the country. If Republicans hope to expand their majority -- or even win control of the Senate -- the contest is among those that Republicans must win. And Democrats have sought to capitalize on Mr. Kirk's series of misstatements about his career in the Navy Reserves, including that he came under fire while flying intelligence missions over Iraq.
 When the discrepancies in his military record came to light, Mr. Kirk went on an apology tour, telling the editorial board of The Chicago Tribune: ''I am sorry, absolutely. You should speak with utter precision.'' He added, ''For me going forward, if you see a problem, fix it.'' 
 Ken Swanson, president of the Illinois Education Association, said both Senate candidates were meeting with his group later this week to be interviewed for a prospective endorsement. He said that he was unaware of the limited nature of Mr. Kirk's teaching experience, but he said ''questions of credibility'' would be asked of both candidates.
 Mr. Giannoulias, the Illinois state treasurer, also has faced questions about his background. For months, the White House and Democratic leaders searched for an alternative candidate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark S. Kirk, center, accepted the Republican nomination for Senate in February in Illinois. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOIS BERNSTEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); MEN (71%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); RELIGION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: MARK STEVEN KIRK (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



455 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Poking and Prodding at Border, Iran Tests Iraqi Resolve

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and NAMO ABDULLA; Zaid Thaker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALI RASH, Iraq -- This remote village high in the rugged mountains along the border with Iran has been deserted, its people having fled Iranian air and artillery bombardments with everything they could carry and whatever livestock that could be coaxed down the steep mountain trails.
 Now the hundreds of Kurds who left Ali Rash and other mountain villages are living in sweltering refugee camp tents. They are at the center of questions about whether Iraq is willing or able to defend its borders with Iran -- which has repeatedly breached the frontier in recent months. 
 The attacks on Ali Rash and at least a dozen other Kurdish villages have continued for more than a month and have included a foray by Iranian tanks one mile into Iraqi territory. But they have elicited only a tepid protest from Iraq's government, including the release of a statement pleading with neighboring countries to honor its borders. 
 The Iranian government has said its bombing campaigns are necessary to weaken Kurdish guerrillas that strike in Iran and take refuge in Iraq. The only confirmed casualty has been a 14-year-old girl.
 The incursions, though, come at a critical time for Iraq -- amid the political stalemate over who should lead the next government more than three months after a divided electorate cast ballots, and less than three months before the American military is scheduled to withdraw its last combat soldier from the country.
 United States forces continue to patrol portions of Iraq's 910-mile frontier with Iran, but in the Qandil Mountain villages that have suffered the brunt of the Iranian offensive, there are no American, Iraqi or Kurdish soldiers -- and the refugees say they are getting little help.
 ''We have been left on our own,'' said Bahar Ibrahim, 27, a refugee from Ali Rash, who is eight months pregnant.
 In the villages of Ali Rash and Sharkhan, craters from Iranian munitions dot the ground in pastures and around crude stone houses.
 The hundreds of people who lived in the villages are now in refugee camps. Only a few stray horses remain. Even the honeybees have been taken to safer places. On the hillsides, where villagers grew wheat, the ground is scorched black.
 The shelling here continues a trend of Iranian border incursions during the past 13 months that have included a helicopter attack on Kurdish villages in northern Iraq last May, and the occupation by Iranian soldiers of part of the Fakka oil field in southeastern Iraq for three days last December. 
 Last month, Iranian troops engaged in a firefight with the pesh merga, the Kurdish security forces, along the frontier before capturing and briefly detaining a pesh merga soldier. Iranian forces said they had misidentified the soldier as a member of the guerrilla group, the Party of Free Life of Kurdistan, more commonly known by its abbreviation, P.J.A.K. 
 The P.J.A.K., which is seeking greater Kurdish self-determination in Iran, and its sibling group, the Kurdistan Workers Party, or P.K.K., which is fighting for Kurdish autonomy in Turkey, use remote outposts in Iraq's semiautonomous Kurdish region to carry out attacks, according to the Iranian and Turkish governments. 
 Turkey also bombs border areas in Iraq in pursuit of rebels. On Wednesday, clashes were reported between Turkish troops and P.K.K. fighters, which led to the deaths of four guerrillas and a Turkish soldier. Afterward, the Turkish military said it had dropped bombs in Iraq's Kurdish region and its soldiers had crossed more than one mile into Iraq to pursue guerrillas. The Kurdish guerrilla groups have been listed as terrorist organizations by the United States government, though the P.J.A.K. has had contact with American officials as recently as four years ago.
 The P.J.A.K. maintains that its attacks into Iran have been justified.
 ''We never kill civilians,'' said Haval Kalhwr, a P.J.A.K. spokesman. ''We are engaged in a defensive war which is internationally defined as legal.'' 
 Officials in Iraq's Kurdish region have criticized Baghdad for not doing more to persuade the authorities in Iran to halt the attacks. The Kurdish regional officials here also deny that they harbor guerrillas.
 ''The bombardment has continued, which means that the Iraqi government has not taken a serious position on this matter,'' said Twana Ahmad, a spokesman for Barham Salih, prime minister of the Kurdistan regional government.
 Iran has announced several times during the past six weeks that it has halted the bombing, only to resume it a day or so later, according to residents of the village and Kurdish officials.
 Kurdish refugees say that because the bombs have burned their wheat fields and killed livestock, even when the bombardment ends it will be years before the villages will be economically secure again. 
 In the meantime, they get water from relief agencies and buy food from itinerant traders who charge twice the price found in markets.
 Some have been living in tents for weeks, and health officials say unsanitary conditions in the camps may lead to the outbreak of disease.
 Sabria Salih, 26, who has an 8-month-old child, said Ali Rash -- the village she fled from more than four weeks ago -- had come under heavy attack from Iranian forces.
 ''We have left almost everything behind,'' she said. ''We have only some blankets.''
 She said the Iranian government was mistaken if it believed that the villagers were hiding guerrillas.
 ''No P.J.A.K. has been killed or injured in the attacks,'' she said. ''And no one has ever seen P.J.A.K. in our village.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About 200 Kurdish families live in a refugee camp near their now-deserted Iraqi villages of Ali Rash and Sharkhan, near the border with Iran.
 Dr. Kamal Kadr examined a 6-week-old girl while her mother watched at the camp. Iran has breached the frontier in recent months. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HOLLY PICKETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); ARMED FORCES (86%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



456 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Orders for the iPhone 4 Top 600,000, Apple Says

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Apple said on Wednesday that it and its partners took more than 600,000 orders for the new iPhone 4 on Tuesday, the first day they were accepted, despite technical flaws that prevented many orders from going through. 
 The company apologized to customers who were frustrated by the computer hiccups, which affected the Web sites of Apple and AT&T and the ordering system in AT&T stores. Apple attributed the problems to high demand and asked customers to ''try again or visit an Apple or carrier store once the iPhone 4 is in stock.''
 ''It was the largest number of preorders Apple has ever taken in a single day and was far higher than we anticipated, resulting in many order and approval system malfunctions,'' Apple said in a statement. 
 Investors appeared to be pleased with the sales figure, pushing Apple shares up about 3 percent on Wednesday, to $267.25. 
 Analysts said the number demonstrated that Apple remained a fierce contender in the smartphone industry, despite competition from hardware manufacturers like Motorola and HTC and from Google's Android phone software.
 ''It shows the Apple magic is still present,'' said Gerry Purdy, a mobile analyst at MobileTrax. ''It's impressive.'' 
 Still, analysts said, Apple is struggling to maintain the same clear-cut lead over rivals that it had in the past. In particular, the growing portfolio of Android-powered phones, which number in the dozens this year and are offered by many companies, is a significant threat.
 ''The reality is that in the long term, the Android market share is going to catch up to Apple,'' said Charles Golvin, a wireless analyst at Forrester Research. ''When you have one device being sold to a smaller portion of the population, it's not going to compete as well as many devices from many vendors on multiple carriers.''
 Mr. Golvin said that the slimmer design of the iPhone 4 and features like a higher-quality display and front-facing camera were helping to whip up interest in the phone, which will go on sale next Thursday. 
 But he also said that many current iPhone owners were probably nearing the end of their two-year contract with AT&T, qualifying them for a discount on the iPhone 4. ''I doubt that a meaningful percentage of these buyers are new,'' he said.
 Either way, Mr. Golvin said, the 600,000 figure was good news for AT&T, Apple's wireless partner in the United States. Most iPhone buyers are extending their contracts, he said, ''so AT&T is securing an ongoing relationship with them for one to two more years.'' 
 AT&T said Wednesday that the demand for the phone had forced it to temporarily suspend new orders. 
 ''The availability of additional inventory will determine if we can resume taking preorders,'' said Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman. 
 Mr. Siegel said it had handled 10 times as many preorders for the iPhone 4 than it had on the first day the iPhone 3GS was available for ordering last June.
 Although Apple is still accepting preorders, its Web site no longer promises delivery on the phone's scheduled release date. Instead, customers who place an order now may receive their phones by July 14.
 The sales report led some experts to estimate that Apple would beat sales records for previous versions of the iPhone. 
 In a note to clients on Wednesday, Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, noted that it took Apple three days to sell a million of the iPhone 3GS. Mr. Munster said his firm was raising his estimate for sales of all iPhone models in the current quarter to 9.5 million, from 8.5 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At an AT&T store in Manhattan, customers hoping to order the next iPhone would be disappointed. It goes on sale next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); MARKET SHARE (68%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); AT&T INC (86%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); T (NYSE) (86%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



457 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Opel Drops Aid Request

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- General Motors' Opel/Vauxhall unit, expressing frustration with the slow pace of government decision making, said Wednesday it was no longer seeking aid from European countries and would finance a five-year, new-product drive with help from the parent company. 
 Germany's federal government last week turned down Opel's request for 1.1 billion, or $1.4 billion, in loan guarantees, amid a drive to cut government spending in response to Europe's debt crisis.
 Opel's plans call for an investment of 11 billion over five years in developing new products and for restructuring. Though the company might still have won backing from German states that have Opel factories, as well as Spain and Britain, the company said it could not afford to spend months in negotiations.
 ''We would have had to go through some pretty long bureaucratic processes,'' Nick Reilly, president of G.M. Europe, said during a conference call. ''We just can't afford that any longer.'' He said he did not expect Opel to return to profit until next year.
 Going without government aid will require an additional 1.4 billion from G.M. above money the parent company has already committed, Mr. Reilly said. Because G.M.'s financial position has improved, the rate it pays to borrow the money may not be much different from what it would have been with government loan guarantees, Mr. Reilly said.
 Last month G.M., which is majority owned by the U.S. government after a bailout, reported first-quarter earnings of $865 million. The European operations lost $500 million.
 Opel's cost-cutting plans were not tied to the receipt of aid and will proceed, Mr. Reilly said. Opel had already planned to close a plant in Antwerp, Belgium, and cut 8,300 jobs around Europe. Opel said it had 45,000 workers at the end of March. 
 Some analysts have questioned whether Opel would be able to revive sales after years of bad publicity about its travails, which predate the financial crisis and economic downturn. 
 Sales of Opel brand cars, sold as Vauxhalls in Britain, are down 6 percent this year in Western Europe to 404,000 vehicles at the end of May, largely because of the expiration of a cash-for-clunkers program in Germany. But Opel's market share has also fallen, to 7 percent this year from 7.6 percent in the same period of 2009. 
 ''The automotive crisis is still not over in Europe,'' said Christoph Sturmer, a director at IHS Automotive in Frankfurt, a market research firm. ''The volume guys are getting a beating now.''
 Mr. Sturmer said that Opel could be successful if it took better advantage of the cost savings possible from being part of a huge international carmaker. The shift to hybrids, all-electric cars and other new technologies require huge expenditures in research and development, which are easier for larger carmakers.
 ''There are so many new technologies on the horizon,'' Mr. Sturmer said. ''Guys with a better cost position now have a pretty good opportunity.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); MARKET SHARE (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



458 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Before a 'Yes' On Drilling, Smart Moves

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It may be hard to believe, but New York's dysfunctional state government has done one big thing right over the past three years. 
 While neighboring Pennsylvania and other states have rushed pell-mell into the Northeast's version of an energy boom -- making some people richer and some environments poorer -- and while concern has steadily risen about the evolving industrial practices used to extract gas from shale, New York and Gov. David A. Paterson have held back. Instead of jumping in, the state has written fairly tough regulations that are still being tweaked and has added extra protections for the most sensitive areas, particularly the upstate watershed that provides drinking water to nine million people in New York City and its suburbs and exurbs to the north.
 Now, with the catastrophic oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the federal moratorium on deepwater drilling in the background, the next act is approaching here. State legislators are considering two bills that would extend and make explicit the current de facto moratorium on the most intense drilling technologies upstate. 
 One bill would delay new drilling for a year from now. One would extend the current moratorium until 120 days after the release of a federal study of the industry's impact on water quality. The study timetable is uncertain. And around year's end, the State Department of Environmental Conservation is expected to release guidelines on gas drilling. All that's at stake is the regulation for what could be tens of thousands of gas wells -- each using millions of gallons of chemically treated water -- and the economic landscape for much of upstate.
 Gas drilling isn't new in New York. There are 13,000 active wells in the state; the industry says the first gas well was drilled at Fredonia in 1821. What's new is the combination of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling in the rich gas deposit known as the Marcellus Shale, which runs roughly 600 miles -- including in parts of Virginia, West Virginia, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York. The process includes injecting millions of gallons of chemically treated water as much as 10,000 feet underground to break up shale and release the gas within.
 Even some proponents of drilling say the D.E.C.'s measured pace has been wise. But the relative amity has pretty much reached its limit. 
 Anthony R. Ingraffea, an engineering professor at Cornell and a critic of drilling, says large-scale gas development is inconsistent with the upstate environment of agriculture, tourism and recreation. And he says no state has adequate regulations on drilling, particularly the disposal of the polluted water that either has to be kept on site or trucked to processing plants. He said escalating problems in Pennsylvania were indications that New York was wise to learn from the mistakes of others. 
 IN Pennsylvania, a recent well blowout sent gas and water polluted with drilling fluids as high as 75 feet in the air, and the Delaware River Basin Commission, citing risks to water resources, has temporarily banned new permits for natural gas drilling in the Delaware River watershed.
 ''What we've had in the past is child's play compared to wells drilled today,'' Mr. Ingraffea said. ''The gas industry wants to run in and develop as swiftly as they can, and only after the fact do they realize the harm that's been done.'' Many landowners, frustrated with the pace of development, are increasingly vocal about wanting drilling to begin and are borderline apoplectic about the prospects of a moratorium.
 ''It's an awful idea,'' said Scott Kurkoski, a lawyer for the Joint Landowners Coalition of New York, which represents 37 landowners groups whose members own 800,000 acres. He said the failure to develop gas was an economic hardship to landowners and to the state. Proponents of drilling say that while New York has dithered, drilling in Pennsylvania has created 44,000 jobs and has had a $1.8 billion economic impact. He added: ''If there was a legitimate, rational reason to study this further, it would be one thing, but this has already been studied to death. The calls for a delay are coming from people who don't want to see it happen in New York.''
 The proposed one-year moratorium is billed as a compromise. With the stakes rising on both sides, the methodical pace thus far may have been the easy part. Still, with those gulf images seared into people's minds, now more than ever, getting things right might take precedence over getting things fast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (75%); WATER QUALITY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENGINEERING (70%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (68%); OIL SPILLS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



459 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Limited Brands to Cut Ties to The Limited

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Limited Brands will finally shed its remaining ties to the store franchise it arose from, agreeing to sell its 25 percent stake in The Limited to the retailer's majority owner. 
 A sale to the private equity firm Sun Capital Partners, for about $32 million, is expected to be announced as soon as Thursday. The deal will give complete control of the 220-store chain to Sun Capital, a firm known for buying ailing companies that has worked with management of The Limited to turn it around. (In November, the struggling retailer's pretax annual earnings were positive for the first time since 1993, and management held a big celebration.)
 Sun Capital, based in Boca Raton, Fla., bought a 75 percent stake in The Limited in August 2007 with a $50 million investment.
 Founded in 1963 by Leslie H. Wexner in Ohio, The Limited provided the seed for what became Limited Brands, a retailing empire that includes the Victoria's Secret, Bath & Body Works and Henri Bendel brands. All those other names will remain part of Limited Brands.
 But as the shopping conglomerate began to focus more on higher-margin intimate apparel and beauty products, executives at its original franchise found it harder to amass the cash needed for operations like an e-commerce business.
 ''When you're competing for capital with all these other businesses that are so much bigger, it's hard to get anything,'' Linda I. Heasley, The Limited's chief executive, said in an interview on Wednesday. ''It's hard to show a great return to say, you should put the capital over here.''
 Aaron Wolfe, a partner at Sun Capital, said in an interview that the private equity firm was initially drawn to The Limited's status as an orphan brand within its parent, one with a recognizable name and a strong management team.
 Sun Capital's initial investment helped The Limited carry out elemental business improvements, like buying new cash registers for its stores and starting a Web site. Introduced in fall 2008, the site generates about 10 percent of the company's revenue, and volume equal to least 15 stores.
 The Limited will add about 10 stores this year and expects to add 15 to 20 in 2011. This month, it added bridal gowns and bridesmaids' dresses to its offerings, a trend among retailers because bridal products are considered recession-proof.
 Other improvements, like returning to print advertising, are planned, Ms. Heasley said. The company received a public-relations splash with a temporary store in Manhattan last fall, and has struck partnerships with Web sites for career women like Works by Nicole Williams.
 The Limited is trying to make its clothes more fashionable, a change that mirrors that of competitors that cater to working women. Talbots recently hired the model Linda Evangelista for its ads in an attempt to rid the brand of its tweedy image, and Ann Taylor recently revamped its design and put the models Milla Jovovich and Heidi Klum in ad campaigns.
 Seeking a more timely feel, The Limited turns inventory more quickly, bringing new products in every two to three weeks. ''We're training the customer that if she doesn't get it now, it's going to be gone,'' Ms. Heasley said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As Limited Brands focused on its higher-margin chains, The Limited stores found it harder to compete for cash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); INTERVIEWS (86%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (78%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LINGERIE (72%); WOMEN (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); WEB SITES (66%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); PRINT ADVERTISING (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (51%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SUN CAPITAL PARTNERS INC (58%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (56%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%)

PERSON: LESLIE H WEXNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



460 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Newly Released

 BODY:
Add a few more volumes to the bookshelf that holds the expanding literature of the Great Recession. This month's protagonists watch as jobs, homes, boyfriends and opportunities disappear -- and those are in the comic novels. Meanwhile, Glenn Beck delivers a conspiracy thriller with a P.R. executive as its villain.
 FOLLOWING POLLY By Karen Bergreen 309 pages. St. Martin's Press. $24.99. 
 When Alice Teakle is fired from her job as a casting agent, she becomes obsessed with the Polly of this book's title: Polly Dawson, the beautiful young wife of the famous movie director Humphrey Dawson. The women went to Harvard together, but, ''she looks like a million bucks and I look as if I'm about to do laundry,'' Alice notes.''She's a mogul and I'm an unemployed assistant. How did this happen?'' Alice has both a phenomenal memory and, as it turns out, no life of her own. Ever since her father and older brother were killed in a plane crash, sending her mother into years of emotional withdrawal, Alice has lived through others. But when Polly is killed and Alice becomes the prime suspect, she has to discover who she really is, with the help of the man she calls Charlie, another longstanding obsession of Alice's. This is Karen Bergreen's first novel. AMY VIRSHUP
 THIS IS WHERE WE LIVE By Janelle Brown 316 pages. Spiegel & Grau. $25. 
 On the first page a small earthquake strikes. And that's just the beginning of the travails that hit Claudia and Jeremy, the young Los Angeles couple at the center of Janelle's Brown's second novel. Soon to come are ballooning payments on an adjustable-rate mortgage, an unwanted roommate, a fire and in-laws a little too eager to help with repairs. The charming cottage that ''had claimed them as its own,'' the house ''from which they would be launching the rest of their lives'' becomes a burden, not a blessing. Claudia's career as an indie-film director sputters and she has to teach at a private school to make ends meet; Jeremy's band can't finish an album, and his day job in T-shirt design isn't quite the solution. And that's not to mention the sudden re-emergence of his glamorous ex, Aoki, a now-famous artist who immortalized him in her ''Jeremy Series'' and who reminds him when they meet again: ''You could be so much bigger than you are.'' SCOTT HELLER
 THE MADONNAS OF ECHO PARK By Brando Skyhorse 199 pages. Free Press. $23. 
 This first novel from Brando Skyhorse tells the intertwining stories of three Mexican-American families in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, from the 1980s to today. The men are mostly feckless. ''Isn't it amazing, the things people leave behind?'' asks one of them, Freddy Blas, who abandons, among other things, his wife and daughter. The women find different ways of enduring -- Felicia through hard work, Cristina with men. As the narrators pass the story backward and forward in time, the characters unknowingly bounce off one another like particles in the Large Hadron Collider. Madonna references include both the singer -- a young girl is shot while dancing outside the local convenience store where the video for ''Borderline'' was made -- and the Virgin Mary, who appears to the reluctant matriarch Beatriz Esperanza. AMY VIRSHUP
 INSIGNIFICANT OTHERS By Stephen McCauley 243 pages. Simon & Schuster. $25. 
 Middle age is nagging at Richard Rossi, but at least he has his ''At Least List'' to remind him things could be worse: ''I might be going gray,'' goes one entry, ''but at least I've got hair.'' A human-resources executive at a Boston-area software firm called Connectrix, Richard has succeeded by introducing playful perks that make the company ''feel more like a fun campus than a workplace.'' If only it were that easy to bring a spark to his long, solid relationship with Conrad, an art consultant; instead, he exercises compulsively and keeps a married man on the side. ''We're partners, but there's room to wander, too,'' is how Richard explains the arrangement. ''Not perfect, but a design for living.'' That is, until Conrad finds his own ''insignificant other'' -- in Columbus, Ohio, of all places. This is Mr. McCauley's sixth novel, and while his characters are getting older, their creator's wit remains spry. SCOTT HELLER 
 THE OVERTON WINDOW By Glenn Beck 321 pages. Threshold Editions. $26.
 ''Good-looking, great job, fine education, puckishly amusing and even clever when he put his mind to it'': that describes Noah Gardner, the hero of Glenn Beck's political-conspiracy thriller. Noah is the scion of a huge public relations empire, but he has reached the age of 28 without wondering why his father, Arthur, has no scruples and sounds like a demagogue with contempt for the American people. When Noah meets Molly Ross, ''a cute but quirky mailroom temp'' at his father's agency, he is impressed by her fiery defense of freedom in the face of tyranny. Molly re-educates Noah in a book that combines lectures with action, makes an extreme point of avoiding political stereotypes and culminates in the prospect of a sequel. The title, ''The Overton Window,'' refers to a trick of altering expectations until the unthinkable seems reasonable. JANET MASLIN
 EVERYTHING LOVELY, EFFORTLESS, SAFE By Jenny Hollowell 221 pages. Henry Holt & Company. $14. 
 The territory in Jenny Hollowell's first novel is familiar: Hollywood strivers just outside the caress of the spotlight. But her protagonist, Birdie Baker, is a little different. Seven years earlier she abandoned her pastor husband and evangelical Virginia family, leaving a letter (''I have tried to be a Believer, but I am not'') and no forwarding address. Acting has taken her only so far: small roles, standing in for actresses of greater fame and a string of lovers who promise to help her career. One lucky break, Birdie imagines, and ''how beautifully, beautifully blank she could be, her failures forgotten, blasted away by the roar of her name being shouted and those lovely bright flashes of light.'' Ms. Hollowell was raised a Jehovah's Witness and works in television production; the book is being published as a paperback original. SCOTT HELLER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); FILM (75%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (67%); EARTHQUAKES (67%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (50%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: Following Polly (Book); This I Where We Live (Book); Madonnas of Echo Park, The (Book); Insignificant Others (Book); Overton Window, The (Book); Everything Lovely, Effortless, Safe (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



461 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Costs to BP Would Soar Under Criminal Charges

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
As BP watches its bill rise quickly for the oil spill, including $20 billion it is setting aside for claims, it could find the tally growing much faster in coming months if the United States Department of Justice files criminal charges against the company.
 Based on the latest estimates, for example, the daily civil fine for the escaping oil alone could be $280 million. But criminal penalties, if imposed, could cause the costs to balloon still further, said David M. Uhlmann, a law professor at the University of Michigan, who headed the environmental crimes section of the Justice Department from 2000 to 2007. 
 Others note that such penalties could lead to loss of government contracts.
 Even misdemeanor convictions under environmental laws could produce stunningly large fines under general federal criminal statutes, Mr. Uhlmann added. That is because the Alternative Fines Act allows the federal government to request twice the gain or loss associated with an offense if the Justice Department shows that a crime was committed. 
 Predictions by analysts of the overall cost of the spill to BP, when criminal penalties are included, have been rising. On Wednesday, Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James, estimated the total legal cost, including criminal fines, at $62.9 billion, which would dwarf the $20 billion escrow account to be used to pay claims of economic loss. 
 The agreement to create the fund would not pre-empt people from using the courts to resolve disputes with BP over the spill.
 Proving a criminal case beyond misdemeanor crimes under federal environmental laws could be difficult. The standard for proving environmental misdemeanors can be relatively low: merely negligent actions can lead to misdemeanor penalties under the Clean Water Act.
 Prosecutors would probably prefer, given the severity of the ecological crisis caused by the spill, to seek tougher penalty charges, Mr. Uhlmann said. But those carry a tougher standard of proof. The government would have to show that the company knew its actions would lead to the gushing well on the ocean floor. 
 A BP spokesman, Toby Odone, said, ''We wouldn't comment on either current or future legal matters.'' 
 Andrew Ames, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said there was no timeline for the civil or criminal investigations, and that the department was ''looking for all possible violations of the law.''
 The department is reviewing the actions of all companies involved in the spill, and focusing on several environmental laws in particular, including the Clean Water Act, which carries civil and criminal penalties, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. 
 The Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Endangered Species Act, which provide penalties for injury and death to wildlife, could come into play, along with ''traditional criminal statutes,'' Mr. Ames said. 
 The investigation would almost certainly take into account prior criminal plea agreements from the company, like the guilty plea in the 2005 refinery explosion that killed 15 people in Texas City, Tex. 
 Prior criminal charges can be used during a trial to support arguments that the Deepwater Horizon disaster is not a unique occurrence, but the result of a corporate culture that lets schedule and budget pressures lead to increases in risk.
 Any criminal charges are unlikely to reach up to the executive suite, and would apply to the company as an entity. 
 Few of the laws under consideration by the Justice Department have felony provisions that would lead to incarceration, and even those require a direct and intentional connection between the defendant and the crime. 
 Stanley L. Alpert, a former federal prosecutor of environmental crimes, said that even if decisions that might have contributed to the disaster are found to be criminal in nature, they are rarely made by top executives. ''It's likely it was done at a much lower, operational level,'' Mr. Alpert said. 
 Criminal indictments alone could have substantial ripple effects on a company's fortunes, said Steven L. Schooner, a professor at George Washington University Law School. A company that is indicted risks being blacklisted from future sales contracts with the government under procedures officially known as suspension and debarment. 
 BP sold $1.6 billion worth of aviation fuel and other products to the military last year, according to the government's procurement site, usaspending.gov. If a company were given a short-term suspension or debarment, which can last three years, it would not be eligible to get a new contract during that time, Mr. Schooner said. 
 The point of debarment under the law, he said, is not to punish, but to protect the government from suppliers that do not perform. 
 Still, he added, ''It would not surprise me at all if somebody in the White House decided that we ought to suspend or debar BP just because it will make it look like we're doing something.'' 
 Many states monitor the federal debarment list, Mr. Schooner said, and so sales to airports, fire departments, school districts and more could be imperiled by a listing. ''The trickle-down can often exceed the initial problem,'' he said.
 Mr. Uhlmann said that if the federal government took an extremely aggressive approach, it might try to argue in court that suspension or debarment should also be applied to the company's federal drilling and operating licenses -- potentially, a devastating blow.
 But, he added, it would be a risky tactic that would stretch the definition of the blacklisting process. Even if it were successful, it could stay in place only ''as long as the condition giving rise to the violation remained in effect.'' If the company overhauled its processes as part of a settlement, he said, the ban would have to be lifted. 
 State law enforcers, working from state environmental statutes, might step in as well, predicted Tracy D. Hester, who teaches environmental law at the University of Houston Law Center. 
 ''BP may think they are dealing with one big man across the ring,'' Mr. Hester said. ''The fact is, they are going to have a tag team.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); OIL SPILLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (75%); NEGLIGENCE (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); WATER QUALITY (62%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (62%); BIRDS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



462 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Tax Package Revamped

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
Hoping to break a stubborn impasse over a major spending and tax package, Senate Democrats late Wednesday unveiled a trimmed-back measure they said was paid for except for emergency unemployment compensation and state aid money. 
 Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, said Democrats hoped they could win approval of the new plan after a test vote earlier Wednesday on a costlier $140 billion version found Democrats 15 votes short of the 60 needed to forge ahead.
 ''I'm looking for something north of 60 so we can move forward,'' Mr. Baucus said.
 The new proposal would lower the bill's price tag by at least $20 billion by cutting back on unemployment pay and averting a reduction in Medicare fees paid to doctors for only six months instead of 19 months. And to reduce the impact on the deficit, it also includes a stiff increase in the fee paid by oil companies into a liability fund, increasing the current eight cent-per barrel charge to 49 cents.
 Mr. Baucus noted that the latest version of the bill also further softened a plan to require hedge fund managers and others in private equity to treat more of their gains as ordinary income. Several Democrats have been resisting imposing higher taxes on the high-end investors.
 The new approach, estimated to produce nearly $14 billion in taxes over 10 years, would tax 75 percent of an equity manager's income at higher ordinary income tax rates and 25 percent at the lower rate for capital gains. In the case of investments held at least five years, the split would be 50-50.
 In an overture to win the vote of Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, Mr. Baucus said the legislation tightened a provision intended to prevent some small business owners from gaming the system and avoiding payroll taxes on their income. Ms. Snowe and others had objected to the initial provision, saying it would tax money that business owners intended to put back into their enterprise.
 The bill also includes a provision sought by Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, for low-income housing credits for areas hit by disasters, including Midwestern flooding.
 The proposal cuts an extra $25 in weekly unemployment benefits granted in last year's stimulus bill, saving nearly $6 billion.
 Senate Democrats said they would like to win final approval of the measure as early as Thursday
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); INCOME TAX (64%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (79%); EVAN BAYH (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



463 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Designing Board Games Is All Play, No Work

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Part Geppetto, part Willy Wonka, part Tom Hanks's character in ''Big,'' Gaetano Michael Bisogno, 28 -- who goes by Mike -- has a dream of a job: He's a toy designer. He graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology's Toy Design program in 2008, runs his own toy company
 (iamastuffedanimal.com) and works for Cardinal Industries, a card and board game company based in Long Island City, Queens. 
 Do children still play board games? They do, believe it or not. We're actually finding there's been a resurgence in purchases of games and puzzles. From what I'm gathering, with the economic climate, a lot of families are staying in. It's a lot more reasonable to play a board game and for a family to stay in than to spend a hundred dollars on dinner and a movie. 
 Were you a killer Monopoly player as a child? My game is Risk. I like strategy games of that sort. And I like Scrabble a lot.
 Highest Scrabble score: Probably in the 400s, 500s. 
 How he became a toy designer: I was a restaurant manager and getting a management degree when I went on a vacation with my fiancee and her family at Atlantic City. Her brother's fiancee had gone to F.I.T. for packaging. She said, ''Have you ever considered toy design?'' You never think that something like this exists. When you see toys on shelves, you never really consider someone has to design them and make things fun. Everything just kind of clicked. I immediately approached F.I.T. and worked towards getting in. They only take 20 people a year. 
 Why it was a good fit: I'm a big toy collector and an even bigger Pez collector. I have somewhere along the lines of 800 Pez dispensers. Toys were always something that were a big part of who I was. The other side was I started drawing at a very young age, probably 3 years old. For a long time, I thought that I didn't really want to make a career out of the thing I loved because it would ruin it. But I love what I do. It makes every day rewarding and fun. 
 The company he works for: Cardinal Industries is family owned for 65 years. They work with licensed games, for Disney, Nickelodeon, ''Star Wars.'' We just completed the Alice in Wonderland game for Disney. It's a board game for 14 years and up. 
 A day's work: We do everything from start to finish. From conception all the way through to game design and board designs. I write the instructions for playing cards a lot of the time. Packaging. Say we're doing a new game for Mickey Mouse. He has a preschool TV show on the Disney Channel. The game has to be not only age-appropriate, but time-appropriate, so it doesn't last two hours to play. Maybe it'll last 20 minutes. 
 Future family perks: I'm getting married in July. And my future mother-in-law always makes a joke that when we do have children, my wife will say, ''Kids, go help your dad put away his toys.'' 
 Do you and your fiancee play? She's a big gamer, which is really nice. We play a lot of board games and video games in our household.
 Do you always beat her? No, she's actually awesome. Which is nice. She's a nice foil. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (93%); BOARD GAMES (91%); FAMILY (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); CARD GAMES (76%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (76%); CHILDREN (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



464 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: In the New Populism, Add the Government To the List of 'Fat Cats'

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The thrashing of BP this week, in private meetings at the White House and in public hearings on Capitol Hill, was perhaps the most direct confrontation to date between governing Democrats and a corporate behemoth, but it was hardly the first. 
 In fact, at least partly in response to economic unrest he inherited, President Obama himself has established a remarkable pattern of regularly scolding the titans of American industry. 
 Last year, he derided reluctant lenders as ''fat cats'' and called the bonuses of A.I.G. executives an ''outrage''; more recently, he attacked health insurers as greedy and accused the owners of a West Virginia mining company of putting ''their bottom line before the safety of their workers.'' 
 Taken together, such public indictments would seem to make Mr. Obama's administration the most populist, at least in its rhetoric, since Franklin D. Roosevelt's.
 And yet, somehow, the only potent grass-roots movement to emerge from this moment of dissatisfaction with America's economic elite exists not in support of the president or his party, but far to the right instead, in the form of the so-called Tea Party rebellions that are injecting new energy into the Republican cause. If Mr. Obama has so consistently cast himself as the populist scourge of corporate abusers, then why does so much of the popular anger seem to be directed at him instead? 
 In part, this is probably because Mr. Obama, while seemingly eager to read from a populist script, is really too cool and contemplative to be terribly convincing in the role. For sheer intensity of emotion, the president hardly rivals even the more patrician John F. Kennedy, who complained after a run-in with steelmakers that all businessmen were in fact ''sons of bitches,'' as his father had counseled him. 
 Mr. Obama's aides like to describe him as privately furious at one corporation or another, but the president seems more like a school kid whose friends are holding him back from a hallway fight, screaming ''Let me at him!'' but not really relishing the idea. 
 But there is something more fundamental going on here, too, an underlying shift in the meaning of American populism. Most Democrats, after all, persist in embracing populism as it existed in the early part of the last century -- that is, strictly as a function of economic inequality. In this worldview, the oppressed are the poor, and the oppressors are the corporate interests who exploit them. 
 That made sense 75 years ago, when a relatively small number of corporations -- oil and coal companies, steel producers, car makers -- controlled a vast segment of the work force and when government was a comparatively anemic enterprise. In recent decades, however, as technology has reshaped the economy, more and more Americans have gone to work for smaller or more decentralized employers, or even for themselves, while government has exploded in size and influence. (It's not incidental that the old manufacturing unions, like the autoworkers and steelworkers, have been eclipsed in membership and political influence by those that represent large numbers of government workers.)
 Since this transformation took place, a succession of liberal politicians -- Jesse Jackson, Jerry Brown, John Edwards -- have tried to run for president on a traditionally populist, anticorporate platform, with little success. That is because today's only viable brand of populism, the same strain that Ross Perot expertly tapped as an independent presidential candidate in 1992, is not principally about the struggling worker versus his corporate master. It is about the individual versus the institution -- not only business, but also government and large media and elite universities, too.
 You do not have to be working for the minimum wage, after all, to seethe about the effects of the Wall Street meltdown on your retirement savings or the spilled oil creeping toward your shores. You simply have to fear that large institutions generally exercise too much power and too little responsibility in society.
 This new American populism is why the federal deficit has emerged as a chief concern for voters, as it did in Mr. Perot's era -- not because it presents an imminent crisis of its own, necessarily, but because it signifies a kind of institutional recklessness, a disconnectedness from the reality of daily life. 
 The same dynamic explains the current spate of questions over the composition of the Supreme Court, which may soon consist entirely of lawyers trained at Harvard and Yale. It does not seem to matter that virtually all of those justices advanced from the middle class, rather than through inheritance. The pervasive reach of exclusive educational institutions is unnerving to some Americans now, and it helps inspire the caustic brand of populism that Sarah Palin and others have made central to their political identities.
 What this means for Mr. Obama is that an anxious populace is now less likely to see his clash with BP as an instance of government's standing up to a venal corporation, but rather as an instance of both sprawling institutions having once again failed to protect them. In a poll conducted last month by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center, 63 percent of respondents rated BP's handling of the oil leak as fair or poor. But the government fared only modestly better, with 54 percent giving it the same dismal marks. 
 In other words, voters perceive both business and government as part of an interdependent system, and it is hard for them to separate out the culpability of either. Mr. Obama acknowledged as much in his speech Tuesday, when he asserted -- in his lone criticism of government's role in the crisis -- that the bureau in charge of monitoring the oil companies had effectively been colluding with them instead. 
 All of which leaves the old kind of anticorporate populism -- ''the people versus the powerful,'' as Al Gore put it -- a beat behind the times, sort of like ''flower power'' or the Laffer Curve. Mr. Obama and his party are probably right to presume that voters don't trust BP or any of the powerful companies the president has taken to castigating on a regular basis. The problem is that they don't trust Washington to stand up for them, either. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INDICTMENTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); MINES & MINING (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (54%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



465 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: BP Begins to Ante Up

 BODY:
Given the size of the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, we suspect that $20 billion may not be enough to compensate all of the people whose lives and futures have been derailed by the spill. But it's a good start. 
 It took days of very public pressure from President Obama and countless hours of private negotiations, but BP finally agreed on Wednesday to put $20 billion in an independently managed compensation fund. After meeting with the company's top executives at the White House, Mr. Obama stressed that the amount is not a ceiling on BP's obligations, which by some estimates could exceed $40 billion when the costs of cleaning the spill and restoring the gulf's damaged ecosystem are also factored in. 
 ''The people of the gulf have my commitment that BP will meet its obligations,'' the president declared, adding that the agreement would not pre-empt any claims in court. BP did not publicly address the issue of a cap, but its chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, did apologize ''to the American people'' and vowed to ''look after the people affected'' and ''repair the damage to this region and the economy.'' 
 There are a lot of reasons, of course, not to trust BP.
 The company insisted for years that it was ready to deal with a huge oil spill in the gulf, and it was completely unprepared. After the blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig, it downplayed the size of the spill, starting with 1,000 barrels a day, then moving to 5,000, then -- as its tallies became less and less credible -- turning over the job of estimating to government scientists. Their present estimate is as much as 60,000 barrels a day. 
 When President Obama first started pressing for an escrow fund, and a suspension of dividend payments to BP's shareholders, the company pushed back hard, rallying British politicians to argue that they were being unfairly roughed up by the Americans. 
 Mr. Svanberg appears to have decided that fessing up and anteing up is now the best course. On Wednesday, BP also announced that it would suspend dividend payments of about $7.5 billion over the next three quarters -- in effect giving gulf residents higher priority over its own stockholders. It also agreed to set aside an additional $100 million to pay workers idled by Mr. Obama's suspension of deep-water drilling in the gulf. This should relieve the pressure on the president to resume that drilling.
 Having $20 billion in guarantees should reassure the spill's victims, and all Americans, that BP will not be able to walk away from its responsibilities. It is also reassuring that the fund will be managed by Kenneth Feinberg, a veteran administrator who won high marks for overseeing the 9/11 victims' compensation fund. 
 Mr. Feinberg's task then -- determining the value of a life, in nearly 3,000 cases -- was extraordinarily daunting. This one will involve many more claims from many more people. There is not a lot of time for Mr. Feinberg to get up to speed. BP is currently handling individual claims and has been criticized for uneven treatment and not responding quickly enough to people who could be weeks or even days away from losing their businesses. 
 The White House will need to keep pressing BP hard. The agreement gives the company several years to deposit the $20 billion in order to manage its cash flow and not scare off investors. It must be held to that timetable. And it must begin making provisions to ensure a full payout of the billions more in cleanup and restoration costs and civil penalties under the Clean Water Act that are also its responsibility. 
 We would like to think the battle is over. It is not. Claims in the 1989 Exxon Valdez case were not finally adjudicated until two years ago, and there is still oil on the rocks of Prince William Sound. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DIVIDENDS (88%); OIL SPILLS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



466 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Imposes New Penalties On Iran Firms And Officials

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; David E. Sanger and Yeganeh June Torbati contributed reporting from Washington, and William Yong from Tehran.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration, seeking to build on the momentum of the Iran resolution passed last week by the United Nations, announced Wednesday that it had imposed sanctions on more than a dozen Iranian companies and individuals with links to the country's nuclear and missile programs.
 The list includes two top commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, which has control over Iran's nuclear program and is expanding its grip on the nation's economy. 
 It also includes a major Iranian bank and five front companies for the Iranian state shipping line, as well as 71 ships with names that had been changed to skirt previous sanctions.
 ''Iran will never cease looking for ways to evade our sanctions,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in announcing the measures at the White House. ''So our effort must be ongoing and unrelenting. And we will keep working on ways to intensify financial pressure on Iran.''
 Administration officials said they hoped the steps would be the first of a new round of sanctions against Iran by the European Union, Australia and other countries. 
 On Thursday, European leaders are expected to endorse their own unilateral measures, while Congress is drafting legislation that would go much further than the United Nations sanctions.
 But the Treasury Department's sanctions lay bare the loopholes that continue to plague efforts to isolate Iran commercially: many of the companies on the list acted as fronts for entities already the subject of previous sanctions. Others have ties to entities that were already sanctioned.
 Moreover, a senior administration official acknowledged that the United States would have had the authority to designate all these companies on its own without the passage of the latest United Nations resolution. The sanctions require that the companies' assets under American jurisdiction be frozen.
 The administration's move came hours after a defiant speech by Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who said the West deserved to be punished for its action against Tehran and laid out ambitious plans to increase uranium enrichment and build four new atomic research facilities.
 Iran justified the need to expand enrichment to supply fuel for a research reactor that produces radioactive isotopes. It plans to build the research complexes in four corners of the country and said that one of them would be ''more powerful'' than the American-built research reactor in Tehran, which has been the subject of intense negotiations among Iran, Western nations, Brazil and Turkey.
 ''You showed bad temper, reneged on your promise, and again resorted to devilish manners,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said, addressing the countries that voted to pass the resolution in the United Nations Security Council.
 ''You have behaved badly,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said, ''but we have terms which will punish you and make you sit at the negotiating table like a polite child.''
 He also said in the speech, which was broadcast live on state television, that Iran would announce new conditions for talks, suggesting that he was open to dialogue in the wake of the Security Council vote.
 The administration met these mixed signals with sanctions that aimed to show how Iran used its banks and shipping industry to aid its nuclear program.
 The United States designated Post Bank of Iran, which American officials said handled foreign transactions for Bank Sepah after it was penalized in 2007 for providing financing to Iran's missile industry.
 Also named were five companies -- two based in Hong Kong -- that are affiliated with, or owned by, the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines. Iran has evaded previous sanctions by renaming, repainting and reflagging its ships. 
 It also has changed the ownership of the vessels, officials said.
 The administration kept its focus on the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, designating the corps' air force and missile command, which it says have links to Iran's ballistic missile program. And it named two top commanders: Mohammad Ali Jafari, the commander in chief of the corps since late 2007, and Mohammad Reza Naqdi, who has served as head of the Basij Resistance Force since October 2009 and was notorious earlier for suppressing protests at Iranian universities.
 Basij paramilitaries led the government's bloody crackdown on antigovernment protests after the disputed presidential election last June, though that is not the main reason that Mr. Naqdi was sanctioned.
 As a former deputy chief of staff of the armed forces general staff, he was involved in efforts to evade previous sanctions, according to the United Nations.
 The Treasury Department also identified 22 companies in the Iranian insurance, petroleum and petrochemical industries that it said were owned by the Iranian government. 
 American citizens are barred from doing business with such companies; the designations are also devised as a warning to foreign companies with business dealings in Iran, officials said.
 Some critics said the sanctions, particularly those against well-established figures like Mr. Jafari, showed how hard it was for the United States to keep up with the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. The Revolutionary Guards ''is morphing, and expanding, and drifting into every part of the Iranian private sector every day,'' said Danielle Pletka, a vice president and an expert on Iran at the American Enterprise Institute. ''We have a handful of people in Treasury who do this, and we're not keeping up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad lashed out on Wednesday at United Nations members that voted for sanctions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAJJAD SAFARI/INTERNATIONAL IRAN PHOTO AGENCY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (62%); RELIGION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



467 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: In Utah, Execution Evokes Eras Past

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
DRAPER, Utah -- The death penalty re-emerged here, behind the gray stone walls of the Utah State Prison in early 1977, in violence and blood. A murderer named Gary Mark Gilmore, famous even before the books about him, died before a five-man firing squad, ending a national moratorium on capital punishment. The law-and-order era of the 1980s and '90s -- if not quite by calendar, then by symbol and deed -- had begun.
 Now the firing squad, a Utah way of death that began in pioneer days and lingered after other states that practiced capital punishment had moved on to more sanitized means of killing, is back. The execution of a man named Ronnie Lee Gardner, 49, for murdering a lawyer in an escape attempt, is set for the small hours of Friday morning. If not blocked by the courts, Mr. Gardner will be hooded, strapped to a chair and shot through the heart. 
 To many people living in Utah in 1977, the days leading up to Mr. Gilmore's death were filled with foreboding and strange, morbid exhilaration. Candlelight vigils were offered up in the chilly January air outside the prison. The national and international news media descended in full swarm.
 To return on the eve of another execution is to see how much, and in other ways, how little, has changed. 
 A place once righteously confident in its world view and harsh in its judgment of places that seemed to have gone off the tracks in the 1970s -- like New York City and the Rust Belt -- is now more diverse and tempered by an influx of newcomers, and perhaps from hard times as well during the recession.
 The national debate over capital punishment has evolved, too, especially in the last few years as states from New Mexico to New Jersey to Illinois have repealed the death penalty or halted executions.
 Debra Radack has lived that arc of change.
 Ms. Radack, 54, was planning her wedding in 1977, working at a radio station and completely convinced that Mr. Gilmore deserved to die for killing two young men in separate armed robberies. She said she was convinced that Mr. Gardner's execution was just, too. But the black-or-white certainty of her youth is gone, she said. Evi-dence about mistakes and miscarriages of justice in death penalty cases around the country have made her cautious. 
 ''After you live a bit, you see more shades of gray,'' she said, interviewed on a lunchtime stroll in Salt Lake City, about 20 miles north of here.
 The execution of Mr. Gardner, if carried out, might not be the last by firing squad, but the list of possible cases is dwindling fast. Utah went to lethal injection in 2004, but anyone convicted before that date, as Mr. Gardner was in 1985, could still choose to be shot. Four other death row inmates have indicated that they may take the firing squad option, if and when their time comes. Another murderer, John Albert Taylor, died here by firing squad in 1996, before the law was changed.
 While steadfast belief in the death penalty may have eroded for some, the fierce ethos of eye-for-an-eye -- whether based on religion or the code of the West -- is alive and well.
 ''In the days of Moses, they'd stone them to death because they didn't have guns back then,'' said Jackson Smith, 68, a retired security guard in Salt Lake. ''So it doesn't make any difference to me how they do it -- firing squad, electric chair or whatever.''
 But opinions like Marianna Bouttier's are also much more part of the mix now than they were a generation ago.
 ''Human fallibility and the fallibility of our justice systems,'' said Ms. Bouttier, 22, an undergraduate in international studies at the University of Utah, in explaining her opposition to the death penalty. ''I don't think you can ever really be 100 percent correct. Empirical evidence only goes so far with our current technology.''
 For some people, turning-point moments dating back to the Gilmore case resonate still. Ralph Dellapiana was serving as a missionary in Spain for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1977. He returned from his mission a changed man, ''my eyes opened to the wider world,'' as he put it in an interview. He is now a defense lawyer in Salt Lake and director of Utahns for Alternatives to the Death Penalty.
 Larry Cox, the executive director of Amnesty International, the nonprofit human rights organization, was writing news releases for the group in 1977. The Gilmore case shifted Amnesty's battle against capital punishment from an international setting to a domestic issue.
 ''A lot of people realized that it was a turning point,'' he said. ''Now, we're once again moving in the other direction -- it's slow, uneven, not dramatic, but all trends show that the death penalty is losing favor, not gaining.''
 Executions in the United States peaked in 1999, when 98 people were put to death, according to the Death Penalty Information Center, an anti-capital-punishment group, though the numbers from last year were back up somewhat to 52, the most since 2006.
 A news release from the Utah Department of Corrections says that Mr. Gardner's anonymous five-man squad will be stationed behind a brick wall in the 20 feet by 24 feet execution chamber inside the prison. The executioners will be armed with .30-caliber rifles, four of which will be loaded with live rounds -- with none of the gunmen knowing who has the blank. ''At the conclusion of the condemned's last words the execution team will commence fire,'' the news release said.
 But even as the Gardner case is reminding some people of how Utah has changed, there are plenty of reminders of how it has not. The ideas of free will and personal responsibility -- bedrock principles of conservative ideology, not to mention law enforcement -- seem unshaken.
 ''Everybody has choices, and he chose to do what he did back when he was young and it creates consequences for him now,'' said Natasha Gines, 25, a bank compliance officer in Salt Lake, referring to Mr. Gardner.
 The gun culture of hunters and shooters, to whom the idea of a firing squad is perhaps not as alien as it could seem elsewhere, also thrives.
 Just a few miles from the prison, a highway billboard sign advertised an indoor gun range. ''Shoot real machine guns!'' the sign shouted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Utah State Correctional Facility, where Ronnie Lee Gardner will face a firing squad Friday.
 Ralph Dellapiana is a defense lawyer in Salt Lake City and the director of Utahns for Alternatives to the Death Penalty. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFREY D. ALLRED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) DRAWING: A depiction of Gary Gilmore's execution in 1977. (DRAWING BY MIKE LEE/KSL-TV, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (93%); MURDER (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ROBBERY (73%)

PERSON: MIKE LEE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) UTAH, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



468 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Trade Tensions With China Put Shadow on G-20 Meeting

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Anger toward China's currency, trade and industrial policies has been steadily mounting in Congress, adding pressure on President Obama to take a tough stance with his Chinese counterparts at the Group of 20 leaders' meeting next week in Toronto.
 On Wednesday, the House Ways and Means Committee heard from business leaders alarmed about an initiative under which Chinese government agencies would procure high-tech products -- including telecommunications, software and energy-saving equipment -- only from companies that use technologies developed in China. 
 Last week, several software executives, including Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, visited Washington to complain about technological piracy by Chinese companies. And on Tuesday and Wednesday, the United States International Trade Commission, a federal agency that investigates trade matters, held hearings on enforcement of patents and other forms of intellectual property rights in China.
 The mounting tensions could spill over into new retaliatory import duties or other trade barriers, at a time when the United States has several unresolved cases against China before the World Trade Organization, which China joined in 2001. They also reflect growing skepticism about the feasibility of the Obama administration's stated goal of doubling American exports in five years. 
 Still unresolved is the issue of China's currency, the renminbi, whose value has been kept artificially low to stimulate exports. To give negotiations more time, the Obama administration deliberately missed an April deadline to produce a report that could have found China to be a currency manipulator, a determination that might lead to retaliatory measures. 
 Since then, China has not raised the value of the renminbi, despite a visit to Beijing last month by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who has tried to convince Chinese officials that doing so would help to correct imbalances in their economy. 
 ''The administration constructively set the G-20 meeting as an important juncture for China to change its inflexible currency practices,'' Representative Sander M. Levin, the Michigan Democrat who leads the Ways and Means Committee, said Wednesday. ''If China does not act and the administration does not respond promptly thereafter, the Congress will act.'' 
 Republicans were in agreement with Democrats on the issue. The top Republican on the committee, Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, said that China was ''aggressively engaged in a series of troubling and downright protectionist policies'' that could ''spur a breakdown in our relationship.'' 
 But American policy makers have limited options, a point made by Charles W. Freeman III, a China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, who testified at the hearing.
 Chinese officials are less inclined to listen to Western arguments given the economic crises that have buffeted the United States and Europe, Mr. Freeman said. Within the Chinese government, he added, market-oriented reformers have recently lost ground to officials who favor industrial planning and promotion of state-owned enterprises. 
 Christian Murck, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in China, which represents 1,200 companies doing business there, said that because China navigated the recession ''by reliance on traditional administrative measures rather than market forces,'' those who favor state direction of the economy are ''full of confidence.'' 
 John Frisbie, the president of the U.S.-China Business Council, a trade association based in Washington, said he supported legally sound remedies, like petitioning the Commerce Department to apply antidumping and countervailing duties on products unfairly subsidized by China, and bringing disputes to the W.T.O. But he cautioned against applying punitive duties in retaliation for China's currency policies, saying such a step would violate W.T.O. rules. 
 In November, China proposed regulations that would give certain products favored status when government agencies procure equipment. Foreign companies would be effectively denied access to the market for government purchases if the technology did not originate in China, even if the product was made in China, according to Alan W. Wolff, a lawyer at Dewey & LeBoeuf. 
 At the meeting Mr. Geithner attended, China declined to rescind the so-called indigenous innovation policy, but agreed to give American officials and business executives more time to comment on how China could promote domestic technology without discriminating against foreign companies. 
 That has done little to mollify the American software industry. 
 Robert W. Holleyman II, president of the Business Software Alliance, the trade group that organized the software executives' recent visit, said the proposed policy, along with rampant theft of technology, ''seriously undermine'' the economic relationship of the two countries. 
 Dean Garfield, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, another business association, said that China had set up country-specific technology standards and imposed burdensome and redundant product testing requirements. 
 Representatives of manufacturing industries were even more critical of China.
 Thomas J. Gibson, president of the American Iron and Steel Institute, said China had subsidized factories, placed limits on imports and foreign investment, restricted exports of raw materials and manipulated its value-added tax to aid steel makers. Such market-distorting interventions, he said, represent ''a direct and ongoing threat'' to American economic interests.
 Leo W. Gerard, the president of the United Steelworkers, the country's largest industrial union, cited a March report by the Economic Policy Institute, which found that the growing trade deficit with China eliminated or displaced 2.4 million jobs in the United States from 2001 to 2008. 
 ''China is systematically supporting traditionally labor-intensive industries to gain global market share and to ensure its population is working,'' he said. ''Simply stated, it is exporting its unemployment here at a huge cost to American workers and manufacturing.''
 Treasury officials said that Mr. Geithner testified last week that China's exchange rate policy ''is both unfair and hurts the interests of American producers.'' The Chinese Embassy did not respond to a request for comment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Sander Levin said that China must change its ''inflexible currency practices.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN J. MYERS/ REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); PATENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (91%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



469 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: The Boring Speech Policy

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
On Monday night in Ohio, a 62-foot-tall statue of Jesus got hit by lightning and burned to the ground. (The adult bookstore across the street was unscathed.) Less than 12 hours later, Gen. David Petraeus -- who is not God, although certain members of Congress have been known to worship at his altar -- semifainted at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. 
 Then Bravo announced that the White House gate-crashers were getting a TV show. Al and Tipper remained in Splitsville. And the oil kept on spilling. 
 So you sort of knew from the portents that President Obama's big Oval Office speech was not going to be a terrific game-changer. The way things had been going, the president was lucky that a man-eating pterodactyl didn't come crashing through the window during his opening remarks.
 Still, it was a disappointment. I was hoping for a call to arms, a national mission as great as the environmental disaster that inspired it. After the terrorist attack, George W. Bush could have called the country to a grand, important new undertaking in which everyone sacrificed personal or regional advantage for the common good. The fact that he only told us to go shopping was the one unforgivable sin of his administration.
 O.K., also attacking the wrong country. And creating the deficit. But I digress.
 All we got from President Obama was a vague call for some sort of new energy policy. Plus a Gulf Coast Restoration Plan, an oil spill study commission, a reminder that the secretary of energy won a Nobel Prize in physics and 17 references to God, prayer, blessings or faith.
 We wanted him to declare war on the oil companies! Every day it becomes clearer that these guys are even more feckless than we imagined. At the ritual Congressional lashing of C.E.O.'s this week, we learned that none of the major oil companies have any idea how to control a spill like this, and that their faux plans for handling one in the gulf were made up of boilerplate so undigested that several had sections on protecting walruses -- mammals that have not been seen in the area since the Ice Age. ''It's unfortunate that walruses were included,'' admitted Exxon Mobil's chief. 
 The way things have been going, you can't be too careful. If the portents keep piling up, it's easy to envision a headline like: ''Lone Tourist in Pensacola Eaten by Visiting Walrus Herd.''
 Obama held back on Tuesday. Then, on Wednesday, he and the BP chairman announced that the company -- which is, in theory, only liable for $75 million in economic damage payments -- was forgoing its dividend and setting up a $20 billion fund to compensate the workers and businesses who have been harmed by the spill. 
 In the negotiations, Obama said, he had stressed that for many of the small business owners, families and fishing crews ''this is not a matter of dollars and cents, that a lot of these folks don't have a cushion.'' His brief remarks were more effective than his 18-minute effort the night before, particularly when coupled with all that cash.
 ''He is frustrated because he cares about the small people,'' said the chairman of BP, who is Swedish. The word choice made the president sound as if he was working on an environmental disaster in Munchkinland.
 We are frustrated, too, and it's possible that Obama may never be able to give the speech that will make us feel better. He may never really lace into the oil companies or issue the kind of call to arms on energy that the environmentalists are yearning for. 
 That's because it won't get him anywhere. Unlike Bush, he has no national consensus to build upon. He'd barely finished his muted remarks on Tuesday before the House minority leader, John Boehner, accused him of exploiting the crisis ''to impose a job-killing national energy tax on struggling families and small business.'' Michael Steele, the Republican Party chairman, claimed that the president was ''manipulating this tragic national crisis for selfish political gain.'' And the ever-popular Representative Michele Bachmann denounced the BP restitution fund as ''redistribution of wealth'' and ''one more gateway for government control.''
 As a political leader, Barack Obama seems to know what he's doing. His unsatisfying call for a new energy policy sounded very much like the rhetoric on health care reform that used to drive Democrats nuts: open to all ideas, can't afford inaction, if we can put a man on the moon. ... But at the end of that health care slog, he wound up with the groundbreaking law that had eluded his predecessors for decades. The process of wringing it out of Congress was so slow and oblique that even when it was over it was hard to appreciate what he'd won. But win he did.
 Ironic. The man we elected because we hoped his feel-good campaign speeches might translate into achievement is actually a guy who is going to achieve, even if his presidential speeches leave us feeling blah. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); OIL SPILLS (75%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (69%); TERRORISM (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (67%); PHYSICS (64%); MAMMALS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); DAVID PETRAEUS (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (78%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



470 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.N. EXPRESSES CONCERN 
 On Child Soldiers
 As the United Nations Security Council expressed a ''deep concern'' over the continued use of child soldiers and a readiness to adopt sanctions against individuals who deploy them, an American lawmaker warned that the United States might have broken several laws by providing assistance to the Somali military, which uses children in conflict. PAGE A6
 JUDGES FAULT U.N. LEADER 
 Independent judges appointed to revamp the way that the United Nations reviews decisions on matters like hiring, firing, promotions and raises are accusing Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of shielding an unhealthy culture of secrecy and trying to undermine the new system. PAGE A8 
 FILIPINO BROADCASTER SLAIN
 A commentator known for scathing on-air attacks on corruption has been killed in the second fatal attack in 24 hours on a radio broadcaster in the Philippines, one of the world's most dangerous countries for journalists. PAGE A8
 National
 SPILL TAKES A HEAVY TOLL 
 On Gulf Workers' Psyches
 Beyond the environmental and economic damage, the toll of the spill in the Gulf of Mexico is being measured in anxiety, stress, anger, depression and even suicidal thoughts among those most affected, social workers say. PAGE A19 
 EXECUTION EVOKES THE PAST
 Ronnie Lee Gardner, who was convicted of murdering a lawyer, is sentenced to be executed by firing squad shortly after midnight Friday in Utah. The use of the firing squad has remained in the state, as other states have moved to otherforms of capital punishment. PAGE A15 
 New York
 NEW QUESTIONS RAISED 
 About Candidate's Past
 Attorney General Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut sat down with a reporter for a local news outlet in an effort to move beyond an issue that has bedeviled his Senate campaign: his claims about his military service during the Vietnam War. But the interview raised more questions about that chapter in his life. PAGE A24 
 LYING TO GET DIVORCED
 New York State is moving closer to allowing no-fault divorce. For decades, its divorce system has been built on a foundation of winks and falsehoods: if a couple wanted to split quickly, they had to give one of the limited number of allowable reasons, even it wasuntrue. PAGE A25 
 Business
 FALLOUT FROM SPILL
 Hits BP Investors Hard
 In the grim calculus of the gulf oil spill -- the lives and livelihoods lost, the barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico -- the financial toll keeps mounting, too. BP is so big, and its stock is so widely held, that its troubles are being felt throughout the investment world. PAGE B1
 U.A.W. ELECTS NEW LEADER
 As the newly elected president of the United Automobile Workers union, Bob King must show that the union has caught up with today's economic realities while demonstrating to workers that he still embraces the old union principles. PAGE B1
 RECOUPING MEDICARE CUTS
 When Congress aims to reduce Medicare spending, lawmakers often rely on cutting the prices they pay doctors and hospitals. But a new study shows how that approach may have limited success, if doctors respond by simply treating more patients to make up for the lost income. PAGE B3
 Sports
 SURPRISING THE WORLD, 
 And Almost Brazil
 At the World Cup, Brazil, whose stars are the best and the wealthiest globetrotters in the sport, faced off against North Korea, soccer nobodies from a secretive land that rarely allows its citizens to travel abroad. It was the No. 1 team in the rankings of the world governing body, FIFA, against No. 105. But the Koreans made nonsense of that rating. Rob Hughes, On Soccer. PAGE B14
 MARADONA CRITICIZES PELe
 Maradona, the former soccer great and the coach of the Argentine soccer team, continued his running feud with his fellow South American soccer legend, Pele. Goal. PAGE B14
 Arts
 RECLAIMING THE WORKS
 Of a Film Rebel
 When Nicholas Ray, the path-breaking filmmaker and director of ''Rebel Without a Cause,'' died from lung cancer in 1979, he left behind a substantial collection of artifacts that had never, or rarely, been seen. Now, a new finished print of an experimental movie, ''We Can't Go Home Again,'' to which Ray devoted the last years of his life, is being prepared by Mr. Ray's widow, Susan, for a premiere at the Venice International Film Festival next year to celebrate the centenary of her husband's birth. PAGE C1
 Home
 IN NEW YORK,
 Balcony Scenes for Cats
 Some city cat owners who would never dream of letting their pets roam free outside have come up with a creative compromise: an enclosed space -- usually in the form of a screened-in porch or deck -- that allows them to share the great outdoors. But don't call it a cage. They prefer the term ''catio.'' PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 RETHINKING THE UTILITY 
 Of the Best Friend
 Increasingly, some educators and other professionals who work with children are asking a question that might surprise their parents: Should a child really have a best friend? PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A29
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD SOLDIERS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); MURDER (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); JOURNALISM (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (72%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); WRITERS (67%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (66%); SUICIDE (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (58%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); GULF OF MEXICO (91%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



471 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Housing Starts Declined 10% in May

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Home construction plunged in May to its lowest level since December, as builders scaled back after a federal tax credit to lure buyers expired. 
 While housing faltered, manufacturing continued to show signs of recovery. The Federal Reserve said that industrial production rose 1.2 percent in May. Factories -- the single biggest contributor to industrial activity -- increased production by a 0.9 percent, the third consecutive monthly increase.
 The gains were broad-based, though mining output edged down by 0.2 percent. Production at utilities increased by 4.8 percent as warm weather created more demand for electricity. 
 In a third economic snapshot released Wednesday, the Labor Department said that declines in the cost of food and energy helped to drive down wholesale prices in May for a second consecutive month.
 The housing report showed that building permits declined in May, a sign that the construction industry would not fuel the economic recovery.
 The Commerce Department said that construction of new homes and apartments fell 10 percent in May from April to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 593,000. April's figure was revised downward to 659,000.
 The results were driven by a 17 percent decline in the single-family market, which had benefited earlier in the year from federal tax credits of up to $8,000.
 Applications for new building permits, a sign of future activity, also fell. They sank 5.9 percent to an annual rate of 574,000, the lowest level in a year.
 The housing report missed Wall Street expectations by a wide margin. Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had predicted that housing construction would fall to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 650,000 and had forecast that building permit applications would increase to an annual rate of 630,000.
 In a typical recovery, the construction sector provides much of the fuel. But that has not happened this time. Developers are trying to sell a glut of homes built during the boom years. And they must compete against foreclosed homes selling at deep discounts.
 Home builders are feeling less confident in the recovery since government incentives for buyers expired at the end of April (buyers with signed contracts have until June 30 to complete their purchases).
 The National Association of Home Builders said Tuesday that its housing market index fell in June after two months of increases.
 Experts expect home sales to slow in the second half of this year. In addition, high unemployment and tight mortgage lending standards have kept buyers away.
 In its report, the Labor Department said wholesale prices dropped 0.3 percent in May after a 0.1 percent decline in April. Core inflation, which excludes energy and food, posted a 0.2 percent increase. Core prices are up just 1.3 percent over the last 12 months.
 The continued absence of inflationary pressures means that the Federal Reserve, which meets next week, can keep interest rates low to provide support for a recovery.
 John J. Canally, an economist for the LPL Financial, said that the producer prices figures implied a greater potential for deflation than point to any ''big spike'' in inflation.
 ''The good news is that you got an increase in the core P.P.I.,'' Mr. Canally said. ''Even though it is above expectations, it is sort of comforting. It tells you there is enough demand to push up prices.''
 The statistics suggested that there was still robust capital spending in the economy. ''You are just not seeing any pass-through at all of higher raw materials prices to the finished prices,'' he said. ''That reflects a lot of slack in the economy.''
 The producer prices figures, and those for consumer prices on Thursday, are being released just ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day meeting next week, a period during which market speculation is heightened about whether there will be a change in interest rate policy or the language pertaining to it.
 Mr. Canally said the Federal Reserve would ''take comfort from the fact there is not any pass-through'' to consumers, and that it now had ''extra wiggle room'' if needed.
 In May, energy prices fell 1.5 percent, the biggest drop since a 2.2 percent decline in February. Gasoline prices were down 7 percent while home heating oil fell 7.4 percent and residential natural gas was down 1.1 percent.
 The lower prices reflect a continued decline in oil prices which have been falling because of concerns that the European debt crisis will dampen growth prospects.
 Economists expect energy costs will keep inflation low in June as well, given that gasoline costs are down significantly from a month ago. The nationwide average for regular gasoline is $2.70 currently, down from $2.87 a month ago, according to AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report.
 Food costs dropped 0.6 percent, the biggest decline since a 1.3 percent fall in July 2009. The decreases were led by an 18 percent drop in the cost of fresh vegetables, a category where prices had been driven higher because of damaging freezes earlier in the year in Florida.
 The 0.3 percent drop in the overall inflation rate for price index was slightly less than the 0.5 percent decline economists had expected while the 0.2 percent rise in core inflation compared to a forecast 0.1 percent increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INFLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); MINING OUTPUT (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010



472 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; DOCTOR AND PATIENT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking the Way We Rank Medical Schools

BYLINE: By PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.

 BODY:
During my internship, the first year after graduating from medical school, I took care of a middle-aged woman who began our first conversation with a question that patients still ask me today.
 ''So doctor,'' she said as I pulled my stethoscope out to listen to her heart, ''where did you go to medical school?'' 
 In a social context, I might have considered her question to be polite chatter, a filler during an awkward quiet moment. But on that particular afternoon her words felt more like a dart lobbed at what I had presumed to be a budding and promising patient-doctor relationship. 
 Trust from this patient, I remember thinking, is not going to depend on my bedside manner or clinical judgment but my medical school. 
 But even before I had placed my stethoscope bell against my patient's chest, I realized that I, too, had been culpable of submitting doctors to the same line of questioning. Although I might have satisfied my curiosity more surreptitiously -- searching on the Internet, scanning hospital directories, inconspicuously craning my neck to discern Latinized school names on diplomas -- I was just as eager as my patient to learn about the medical schools my doctors had attended. 
 Once I had the information, I would do what my patient did that afternoon: I would mentally find its place within the medical school hierarchy in my mind. Like some existential fast forward button, the right answer to this question could raise the trust in any patient-doctor relationship to a whole new level without a second thought, because by virtue of having graduated from a ''good'' school, that doctor had the ability to address the most pressing needs of all of his or her patients. 
 The thought process was easy -- good school, good doctor; bad school, bad doctor. 
 Maybe.
 Shaped by magazine lists, friends' and strangers' confirmations and professional hearsay, the notion that a medical school's quality can be ranked and then passed on directly to their graduates has become an integral part of American culture. But most of these popular rankings reflect a school's highly specialized research funding and capabilities, not the general quality of its medical school graduates. Criteria like research funding and cutting edge investigations are of course significant, but they more accurately reflect the social needs of the previous century when medicine, backed by scientific investigation, was just starting to make a difference in the health care outcomes of patients. 
 Thanks to many of those advances, the population as a whole has successfully aged. But the drive to elucidate, for example, the molecular basis of high blood pressure has in turn become less urgent. Instead, other, more social, health care issues have reached critical points: the shortage of primary care physicians; the lack of accessible health care and providers in certain areas of the country; and the yawning disparity between racial and economic backgrounds of those who become doctors and those who are their patients. 
 Despite the changes in patient needs, many patients, and their doctors, continue to fall back on old rankings, assuming that institutions that succeeded in addressing the needs of the 20th century can still do so in the 21st. But according to a report published this week in The Annals of Internal Medicine, it is time to reexamine that assumption. 
 Researchers from the George Washington University School of Medicine looked at the more than 60,000 graduates of America's 141 medical schools -- both allopathic and osteopathic -- from 1999 to 2001. Putting the issues of primary care shortage, underserved communities and workforce diversity under the banner of ''social mission,'' the researchers found that many of the schools that were traditionally ranked highly were also among those least focused and least successful in addressing the most pressing issues facing the country right now.
 ''The absolute irreducible mission of medical schools is the education and graduation of doctors to care for the country as a whole,'' said Dr. Fitzhugh Mullan, lead author of the study and a professor of health policy and pediatrics at the university. ''U.S. medical education has drifted over to this highly rarified and specialized focus that has resulted in some major shortfalls.''
 The funding system has encouraged this drift toward specialization and hi-tech research. The investigators also found that institutions that received more federally funded grants, in the form of research grants from the National Institutes of Health, also tended to devote fewer efforts to a school's social mission. Grant money and the security it affords individuals and institutions drive institutions to emphasize research, sometimes at the expense of other urgent but less lucrative endeavors. 
 The opportunity to learn from and be mentored by faculty members involved with the latest research can be stimulating for medical students, but the pressure to bring grant money into an institution can draw even the most enthusiastic educator away from students and back to the laboratory bench. ''Research is not the same as medical education,'' Dr. Mullan observed. ''Research is important, but it can overwhelm.'' 
 And when medical schools ''are already heavily invested in a mission that is traditional and research oriented,'' noted Dr. Mullan, broadening their focus can be slow and difficult, even if they are aware of the growing crises in primary care and the health care work force. 
 In recent years, some visionary medical educators have left older institutions in an effort to jump-start such changes in new medical schools. Most of these new schools, sometimes referred to as ''millennial medical schools,'' embrace missions that unabashedly attempt to address some of the ills of the current health care system. The A.T. Still University of Health Sciences School of Osteopathic Medicine in Mesa, Ariz., and the Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine at Florida International University in Miami, for example, ''embed'' students in underserved areas from as early as the first year of medical school. Other institutions, like the Hofstra-North Shore -LIJ School of Medicine, which is due to begin classes in August 2011, have made it a priority to educate students from diverse, nontraditional backgrounds.
 Naysayers warn that this redirection of focus, whether in established medical schools or new ones, will decrease the selectivity of students and produce less competitive and less competent future physicians. But educators like Dr. Mullan counter that traditional selection criteria based on cognitive exams and premedical course grades do not necessarily translate into clinical ability. 
 ''Doctors who have done very well on everything from kindergarten to residency training in terms of getting into prestige places are assumed to have sharp intellects,'' Dr. Mullan said. ''But none of that correlates in any scientific way with their performance as physicians.'' The more relevant measure of high level competency, Dr. Mullan asserts, is the multiple certification evaluations that take place during medical school, training and licensure. ''They have to pass these, otherwise they cannot practice.''
 Moreover, Dr. Mullan noted, ''If there's not even a doctor near where you live who can offer services, then the quality a priori is bad.''
 ''The mission and function of all schools won't be and shouldn't be the same,'' Dr. Mullan added. ''But we all might think about how we could be a little more responsive to the ongoing needs of patients and of our country. If we continue to produce more doctors in the system we have now, we won't be able to address the needs, the health outcomes and certainly the populations that are underserved, dying and suffering as a result of it.''
 Join the discussion on the Well blog, ''Redefining 'the Best' Medical Schools.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); HYPERTENSION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



473 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE REAL L WORD'; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Gay, Female and Overworked Like Everyone Else

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
The old joke surfaces early on ''The Real L Word.'' ''What does a lesbian bring on a second date?'' The punch line: ''A U-Haul.'' ''The L Word,'' which has inspired this new series, spent its five-year tenure on Showtime tirelessly working to upend the perceptions that underlie such bons mots: that lesbians mate like penguins, for life, with comparatively less vigorous libidos and healthier bean dishes.
 Created in part by Ilene Chaiken, who is also behind the current reality-show successor, ''The L Word'' juiced itself up on plotlines of near lunacy, portraying the modern lesbian as if she were an organization man of the 1950s, all roving eye and seven-year itch. There was so much sex and intrigue -- so many tank tops, stiff drinks, high heels, lost nights, sleek restaurants -- that you began to wonder whether the whole shebang was really just a cover-up meant to mask the grim possibility that the actual lives of young, good-looking Los Angeles lesbians were just as monotonous as everyone else's. 
 ''The Real L Word'' (beginning Sunday on Showtime) gives that theory more credence than you would wish. Forfeiting the ''Sex and the City'' model adopted by its predecessor, a focus on a group of friends, ''The Real L Word'' presents the lives of six gay women in Los Angeles who are mostly disconnected from one another. It is an approach that automatically diminishes the dramatic potential, leaving us with women who talk a lot about their ''A game,'' moving up and working hard for 12 and 14 hours a day. Two of them, Jill and Nikki, are preparing to marry, and they pass between them a rock apparently on loan from a Jackie Collins novel. 
 Which one will wear Dolce & Gabbana at the wedding? This is a question of some concern, and one oddly more compelling than any raised by the circumstances of another cast member, Whitney, whose life looks like a tedious round of picking up whiny women at airports. One of the girlfriends in her life is named Sara, but Whitney gratingly adds nonexistent consonants, referring to her as if she were summoning her to Latin American trench warfare: ''Saarragh!'' 
 Whitney makes prosthetics for movies with titles like ''Voodoo Cowboy.'' And she is not alone among the women on ''The Real L Word,'' who are involved in show business or fashion, professions whose ubiquity on reality television has stripped them of the glamour or fascination they might have had during the high days of the old economy. Virtually nothing can induce boredom at this point more than a close-up of someone talking about the rigorous demands of her job in public relations. Here that role is consigned to a blond, tattooed motorcyclist, Mikey, who promotes designers and produces fashion shows and dates a voluptuous makeup artist named Raquel. 
 Nothing in Mikey's current life seems as remotely gripping as her own history, which we learn about only fleetingly. Having grown up in the projects of Culver City, Calif., Mikey, as a 9-year old, saw her best friend shot and killed. Too often ''The Real L Word'' feels like sitting in a restaurant and hearing about some incredible specials that happen to be sold out. Anything genuinely interesting seems to have already taken place. 
 If you are wondering, for instance, how Tracy's girlfriend wound up with joint custody of three children, or how they came to be named Jagger, Dautry and Nikos, ''The Real L Word'' isn't inclined to tell you. For all of its nonsense, the fake ''L Word'' never seemed this stingy.
 THE REAL L WORD
 Showtime, Sunday nights at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.
 Produced by Little Chicken and Magical Elves. Dan Cutforth, Jane Lipsitz and Ilene Chaiken, executive producers; Jonathan Chinn, Alexandra Lipsitz, Gaylen Gawlowski and Casey Kriley, co-executive producers; Cynthia Childes, supervising producer; Nicco Ardin, line producer; Lance Nichols and Jaymee Johnson, senior producers; Lisa Bellomo, Audrey George and Steven Matty, story producers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jill, left, and Nikki are engaged on ''The Real L Word.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ONDREA BARBE/SHOWTIME) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: The Real L Word (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



474 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: In Kyrgyzstan, Failure to Act Adds to Crisis

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Ellen Barry and Andrew E. Kramer contributed reporting from Moscow, and Mark Mazzetti from Washington.

 BODY:
OSH, Kyrgyzstan -- Kyrgyzstan, an obscure country with a coveted location in Central Asia, is in serious danger of fragmenting. The crisis here, ebbing for now after days of ethnic violence and military atrocities, could have ramifications all the way to Washington.
 The provisional Kyrgyz government has lost control of large areas in the southern part of the country because of its failure to quell attacks that have killed at least several hundred ethnic Uzbeks, and possibly many more. As many as 400,000 have fled their homes. Barricading themselves in their cities and neighborhoods, Uzbeks have essentially set up autonomous zones and are refusing to recognize the authorities in the capital. 
 Despite the threat of a breakup of the country, the government seems unable to respond in any meaningful way. The provision of humanitarian aid has been slow. On Friday, the interim president flew to the affected regions for the first time since the violence began on the night of June 10. She has not responded to numerous credible reports that elements of the military carried out horrific assaults on ethnic Uzbeks. The reports indicate that the government, which took office in April after rioting ousted the Kyrgyz president, does not have the full allegiance of the military. 
 ''They fear the generals,'' a prominent Kyrgyz human rights lawyer, Nurbek Toktakunov, said Thursday. ''Sooner or later, these issues are going to have to be tackled.'' 
 This reluctance is especially striking because the government has charged that the deposed president, Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev, incited the violence as a way to return to office. But it has yet to explain how Mr. Bakiyev exercised that power or whether senior military officers remain loyal to him, allowing him to use troops to incite ethnic warfare.
 American officials are keeping a close eye on the conflict, not least because the United States has an important military base on the outskirts of the Kyrgyz capital, Bishkek, that supplies the expanding NATO mission in Afghanistan. An American official in Washington confirmed that the Kyrgyz government was having ''trouble exercising command over the security forces.'' 
 Already, the new government has given mixed signals about whether it will renew the lease on the American base -- and its weakness has added fresh uncertainty over a strategic competition between the United States and Russia. Russia also has military facilities in Kyrgyzstan and in recent years has vied with the United States to win the favor of the Kyrgyz.
 While it is still early, the tensions here could lead to the kind of ethnic standoff that has repeatedly arisen across the former Soviet Union. These clashes -- in Georgia, Azerbaijan, Moldova and elsewhere -- are often referred to as frozen conflicts because they have not been resolved over many years. They entangle the major powers, as in the case of the 2008 war between Russia and Georgia over the renegade enclave of South Ossetia, which soured relations between Russia and the West, particularly the United States.
 The government had been hoping to solidify its standing by holding a referendum on a new constitution on June 27, but the ethnic violence has thrown those plans into doubt. Ethnic Uzbeks, who make up about 15 percent of the population, will not take part in the voting unless international peacekeepers arrive in Kyrgyzstan, an unlikely prospect.
 If the referendum is canceled, then the government may be further adrift.
 Senior officials in Bishkek defended the government's performance, saying that they were facing towering obstacles in trying to steer the country, including a depressed economy and meddling by Mr. Bakiyev, who is in exile in Belarus.
 The interim president, Roza Otunbayeva, traveled to the south on Friday. She had not been able to visit because of security concerns. The government said that she planned to meet with local leaders to ease the tensions.
 Farid Niyazov, a government spokesman, said Thursday that Ms. Otunbayeva, who is an ethnic Kyrgyz, believed that it was improper to make overtures to either Kyrgyz or Uzbeks based solely on their ethnicity.
 ''The government is offering its condolences to all and its commitment to maintain peace and security,'' he said. ''We do not name ethnic groups. To do so could provide the impulse for another explosion.''
 No matter what Ms. Otunbayeva does, it will be enormously difficult to salve the fury of Uzbeks. That was clear during a visit on Thursday to an improvised cemetery in a barren lot in Osh, where Uzbek victims of the violence were being buried.
 The first was Lochinbek Sabirov, 15. His father looked on, wiping his tears with a handkerchief, unable to make sense of what had happened. 
 The father, Makhamadzhan Sabirov, 42, said Lochinbek had been wounded in the chest and hand on the first day of the conflict, when he went outside to see what was causing the commotion. He died later at the hospital.
 ''Do you think that this is going to be easy to forget?'' he said. ''If I had a machine gun, I would go out into the city and shoot people. I don't want this government anymore. They don't have the right to be in power.''
 The bodies of other Uzbeks followed, borne into the earth on a bier wrapped in multihued fabric: a 50-year-old woman whose throat had been slit, a 39-year-old man who had been clubbed to death. Some had already been hastily interred without identification, their remains burned beyond recognition, their loved ones unable to properly mourn.
 The scene at the cemetery strongly suggested that the scope of the bloodshed was far greater than the interim government had formally acknowledged. The official death toll is about 200, but volunteers overseeing this cemetery alone said they had buried more than 50. And ethnic Uzbek leaders said many cemeteries had been set up. At just four cemeteries, the figure totaled more than 160, according to interviews. (An unknown, but much smaller, number of Kyrgyz were also killed.) 
 The government is not recording the Uzbek burials or playing any role in overseeing them, underscoring an increasingly significant dynamic here: the ethnic Uzbeks want self-rule, and nothing to do with the Kyrgyz authorities. Bakhrom Iminov, 34, was keeping track of the burials in a children's notebook, sketching out grids that he filled with any information he could gather about the dead. He said about 20 percent or 30 percent were unidentified.
 ''The only way that we can protect ourselves is to put a fence up and govern ourselves,'' Mr. Iminov said. ''That is the only way that we can guarantee that what occurred will never occur again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lochinbek Sabirov, 15, a victim of ethnic violence, was buried Thursday in an improvised cemetery in Osh, Kyrgyzstan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); RIOTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (64%)

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KYRGYZSTAN (96%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GEORGIA (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



475 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Watchdog Proposes Dividing N.C.A.A. Money Based on Academics

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
An influential watchdog group on Thursday called on members of the N.C.A.A. and the Bowl Championship Series to change the way they divide millions of dollars in men's basketball and football revenue, proposing the creation of a fund that would allocate money based on academic success rather than victories or tournament appearances. 
 The recommendation by the group, the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, provided a kind of counterpoint to the seismic tremors that have shaken the college sports landscape in recent weeks, moves prompted largely by debates over who should get what share of millions of dollars in television revenue, and why. As Nebraska, Colorado and Utah have announced plans to switch conferences -- and as others have contemplated following suit -- the discussion has centered on wins and losses, television markets and brand image. 
 Placing a larger emphasis on academic performance was one of several ideas proposed by the commission in a report aimed at encouraging colleges and universities to take a collective deep breath and slow the rate of spending on athletics.
 ''The situation we're in right now is basically a financial race to generate more and more money to support intercollegiate athletics, and it's a time when our institutions are under such incredible pressure to maintain the integrity of their academic programs,'' said William Kirwan, the co-chairman of the commission and the chancellor of Maryland's university system. 
 Jim Isch, the interim president of the N.C.A.A., applauded the outlines of the commission's report Thursday, but he quibbled with some of the proposals, which he said were either unrealistic or already under way. ''The N.C.A.A. and its member schools are overwhelmingly in concert with the Knight Commission,'' Isch said in a statement. ''However, we feel there are some aspects of both the data and solutions advanced that require clarification and debate.''
 The report recommended that the N.C.A.A. cut in half the amount of men's basketball revenues that are allocated based on victories and appearances -- $167 million in 2010, according to the report, or 40 percent of shared revenues -- and divert the remaining half into a fund that would be distributed based on how well universities balance academics with athletics. The report recommended a similar system for the B.C.S., with at least 20 percent of postseason football revenues distributed according to academic success.
 Another recommendation resurrects an idea proposed by the commission in 2001, which suggested requiring that a team be on track to graduate at least half of its players in order to be eligible for postseason championships. In his statement, Isch said that requirement would be complicated and unfair to teams that were improving. ''Our current penalty structure that accounts for improvement is fair and has the desired effect -- an emphasis on academic success,'' Isch said.
 However, he said he would support the creation of a fund that tied financial rewards to academic success and said a group of university presidents and conference commissioners was already looking into whether to consider academic performance in the distribution of basketball revenue.
 In the two decades since it was formed, the Knight Commission, which includes several university presidents and trustees, has been credited with spearheading several changes in college athletics, including a sweeping set of academic reforms that were passed in 2004. 
 In taking up financial reform, the commission has its work cut out for it, said John Cheslock, an associate professor at Penn State who studies the economics of intercollegiate athletics. ''We can get individual schools to restrain expenditures, but the competitive pressures are so severe that it's hard for any individual school to unilaterally restrain spending,'' he said.
 Those forces, the report argues, have led colleges and universities to increase spending on athletics at a rate that outpaces spending on academics. At public institutions in the Football Bowl Subdivision, the median amount of athletic spending per athlete grew 38 percent between 2005 and 2008. That rate was nearly twice as high as the median spending per student on academics, the report found. 
 One of the commission's recommendations would require public and private institutions to make their financial reports public. In his statement, Isch said he supported the recommendation, but an N.C.A.A. article posted alongside his remarks noted that colleges and universities have been historically reluctant to share financial data. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); BRANDING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



476 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CAMBRIDGE JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Seventy Years Later, Churchill's 'Finest Hour' Yields Insights

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, England -- Historians have called it one of the greatest speeches ever delivered in English, and surely one of the greatest ever delivered by an Englishman, at a moment of national peril unparalleled in modern times.
 Seventy years ago, on June 18, 1940, Winston Churchill, barely six weeks in office as Britain's prime minister and confronted with the threat of invasion from Nazi-occupied France, rose in the House of Commons and, in 36 minutes of soaring oratory, sought to rally his countrymen with what has gone down in history as his ''finest hour'' speech.
 The speech -- ending with the words ''Let us therefore brace ourselves to our duties, and so bear ourselves that if the British empire and its Commonwealth last for a thousand years, men will still say, 'This was their finest hour' '' -- has resonated ever since. On both sides of the Atlantic and beyond, it has been hailed as the moment when Britain found the resolve to fight on after the fall of France, and ultimately, in alliance with American and Russian military might, to vanquish the German armies that had overrun most of Europe. 
 The original 23-page typescript of the speech, heavily edited by Churchill in scrawls of blue and red ink, rests now in one of 2,500 boxes of documents and artifacts, numbering more than a million in all, that cram the carefully guarded upper floors of the Churchill Archives Center of Cambridge University's Churchill College, founded in 1960, five years before Churchill died.
 In recent days, the speech and other related documents, including an admonishing letter about his ill-tempered behavior toward his staff from Churchill's wife, Clementine, and diary entries from the time by his private secretary, John Colville, have been pulled together and put on display for visiting scholars, journalists and others for the insights they offer into how Churchill wrote the speech -- intensively redrafting it right up to the minute he rose to deliver it -- and into his fractious and quarrelsome state of mind at the time.
 The archive's timing relates, principally, to the anniversary of the speech, and to a wider series of commemorations being held across Britain to mark what Churchill, on that spring afternoon in 1940, described to the Commons as a battle that would determine ''the survival of Christian civilization.''
 Only two weeks before the speech, British naval vessels and a fleet of privately owned fishing and pleasure boats had completed the evacuation of 338,000 British, French and other Commonwealth troops from the risk of annihilation by German forces on the beaches at Dunkirk, a venture that many of the same boats replicated last month.
 About a month after the speech, as Churchill foresaw, British fighter aircraft began confronting the German Luftwaffe in what became known as the Battle of Britain, another saga being celebrated this spring and summer with flying displays at airfields across Britain by wartime Spitfires and Hurricanes.
 The renewed focus on Churchill's wartime leadership has evoked some contemporary resonance, too, from the fact that Britain is again facing a national crisis, this time with a recession-bound economy and perilous levels of national debt. Once again, the task of rallying the country has fallen to a new prime minister, David Cameron, a Conservative like Churchill and also in office little more than a month -- and the head of a coalition that emerged from a parliamentary election, the first coalition government since the national unity government Churchill led from 1940 until his general election defeat in 1945.
 That Mr. Cameron could succeed as Churchill did, and lead Britain back to the ''broad, sunlit uplands'' Churchill held out in his speech as the reward for victory against Hitler, is something many in Britain seem reluctant to believe, perhaps with more reason than the many skeptics who heard Churchill's address in 1940.
 Churchill, after all, was already an iconic, if controversial, figure when he took office, and has long since taken his place in history's pantheon. In a poll of more than one million television viewers in 2002, he was voted the greatest Englishman who ever lived (outranking, among the first 10 finishers, Isaac Newton; Diana, Princess of Wales; and John Lennon).
 What the Churchill College documents reveal, perhaps surprisingly for those accustomed to the confident sweep of Churchill's oratory, is the last-minute reworking that he applied to his speech, adding phrases here, rewriting others and adding yet others on the fly as he delivered the speech.
 In the famous last passage of the speech, the phrase he used to describe the world into which Europe and the United States would be plunged if Hitler prevailed -- ''the abyss of a new Dark Age made more sinister, and perhaps more prolonged, by the lights of perverted science'' -- were amended, perhaps in the last moments before he rose in the Commons, with red-ink handwriting that perfected the alliteration. 
 Equally intriguing, the final typescript of the speech is set out, at least in the final passage building up to ''their finest hour,'' in blank verse format, with five-line paragraphs set out in indented type, a form that the Churchill Archives Center's director, Allen Packwood, compared to the Old Testament Book of Psalms, regarded by many literary scholars as one of the seminal influences, with Shakespeare, on Churchill's literary and rhetorical style.
 Mr. Packwood offered his own theory for the verse form: ''Because it looks like poetry, it gave him, I think, the rhythm that brought life to his oratory. This was a man who raised the art of speechmaking to high literature.''
 Another feature of Churchill's speechmaking that emerges from a study of his papers, Mr. Packwood said, was that unlike many contemporary politicians, he wrote his speeches himself. ''Although there were people who supplied him with ideas, there were no speechwriters in the modern sense,'' Mr. Packwood said. ''This speech, like his others, was one man's creation.''
 But the prime minister had help from other quarters, in the form of a correspondence with his wife that might have helped rein in the ''black dog'' moods that often beset him, which worked against the optimism and resolve in his speeches.
 ''My darling,'' she wrote, shortly after the ''finest hour'' speech was delivered, ''I hope you will forgive me if I tell you something I feel you ought to know. One of the men in your entourage, a devoted friend, has been to me and told me that there is a danger of your being generally disliked by your colleagues and subordinates because of your rough, sarcastic and overbearing manner.'' She added, ''You will not get the best results by irascibility and rudeness, they will breed either a dislike or a slave mentality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Allen Packwood, director of the Churchill Archives Center at Churchill College, Cambridge, looks through some of the 2,500 boxes of Churchill documents and artifacts. A draft of Winston Churchill's ''finest hour'' speech shows the way he edited it extensively before delivering it on June 18, 1940. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ARMIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); NAVIES (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (66%); MARINE VESSELS (63%); WRITERS (62%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); ENGLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



477 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: THE BUZZ IN BASEL: Art, Alive and Well And Selling Briskly

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
BASEL, Switzerland -- Minutes after a limestone head by Modigliani sold for $52.6 million at a Christie's auction in Paris on Monday, word spread to the collectors arriving here for the annual art fair. And everyone wanted the details.
 Who bought the work -- a sculpture from 1910-12 -- which was just two feet tall and had been estimated at only $4.8 million to $7.2 million? A mysterious telephone bidder, was all officials at Christie's would say.
 The huge price -- in a season of huge auction prices -- may not be in the same league as the record-breaking $106.5 million paid for a Picasso painting in New York last month, but the French sale was a conveniently timed confidence booster for Art Basel, the holy grail of contemporary art fairs that opened here on Thursday.
 This season's event, which runs through Sunday, is as big and boisterous as ever, spanning more than 300 galleries from 37 countries. And while the quality of work was noticeably better than it had been a year ago, the days when collectors came to discover new talent are still a distant memory. Instead, booths are filled with a commercial smorgasbord of popular artists. 
 ''Is it because that's what the market wants, or is it because dealers didn't want to take risks?'' Franck Giraud, a private New York dealer, wondered after the opening. ''I think it was a bit of both.''
 Everyone has a theory. Donald Rubell, a Miami collector, said he thought dealers were too afraid to bring good objects last year because the economy was so bleak. ''People are now realizing that art is an international currency,'' he added.
 Mr. Rubell and his wife, Mera, are known for talent spotting, snapping up works by artists like Richard Prince and Maurizio Cattelan years before they become popular. Asked if they had bought anything at the fair, Mrs. Rubell replied, ''How can you resist?'' But when pressed to elaborate, she answered coyly, ''I can't share that information yet.''
 The Rubells weren't the only high-profile shoppers. Michael Ovitz, the former Hollywood agent; Roman Abramovich, the Russian billionaire; and Pauline Karpidas, a London collector, were all spotted. Artists could be seen milling around too, among them Lawrence Weiner, Joseph Kosuth and Doug Aitken, along with museum directors like Thomas P. Campbell from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Glenn D. Lowry from the Museum of Modern Art and Richard Armstrong from the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation.
 Barbara Kruger's ''Are We Having Fun Yet,'' a 1987 photographic silk-screen of a woman's hands covering her face was, until recently, hanging in the Dallas Museum of Art, where it had been on loan since 1988. Sandy Heller, a Manhattan art adviser who works with hedge-fund billionaires, bought it for $700,000 from the Skarstedt Gallery of New York within hours of the fair's opening. He declined to say for whom he had purchased it.
 Bigger sales were reported too. At Jan Krugier, a gallery in Geneva and New York, Picasso's ''Personnage,'' a 1960 plaster sculpture, sold to an unidentified collector for $15 million. Hauser & Wirth, dealers with spaces in Zurich, London and New York, sold a set of five dwarf sculptures from Paul McCarthy's ''White Snow'' series, to a European collector for $3 million.
 Pieces by Louise Bourgeois, who died last month, were hot commodities. At Xavier Hufkens, a Brussels dealer, a 2009 mixed-media work on paper, ''A Baudelaire (#7),'' priced at more than $650,000, was snapped up. Michael Werner Gallery of New York sold two works by Sigmar Polke, the German artist who died last week. His ''Here and Elsewhere,'' a 1975-76 photo collage that was priced at $450,000, was bought by an American collector, and a multilayered abstract painting with an asking price of around $1.5 million was purchased by a European foundation, said Gordon Veneklasen, a partner in the gallery.
 But to say that business was approaching that of the boom years would be an overstatement. ''There's not the impulse shopping there once was,'' said Tobias Meyer, who runs Sotheby's contemporary art department. ''New buyers are coming here as much for information gathering as for collecting.'' Many dealers said they felt a price resistance when it came to spending more than $500,000.
 Work by artists from the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s who had been overlooked was evident. Capitalizing on the Yves Klein retrospective at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, David Zwirner, a Manhattan dealer, brought ''Anthropometrie (ANT 110)'' (1960), one of Klein's signature blue-pigment works in which he pressed nude models' paint-smeared bodies onto paper. This one is unusual because its two figures are thought to be the artist and his wife, Rotraut Klein-Moquay. The asking price is $12.8 million.
 Dan Flavin was enjoying a comeback. Among the many works by him was a room-size installation from 1969, ''Three Sets of Tangented Arcs in Daylight and Cool White (to Jenny and Ira Licht).'' It was being shown by Mr. Zwirner, who is representing the artist's estate, for the first time since the year it was made and has an asking price of $4 million.
 The installation could be found at ''Unlimited,'' a space next to the main fair for oversize works, including many video installations. One standout is a room by Mr. Aitken called ''Frontier'' (2009), which features the artist Ed Ruscha moving through a surreal urban landscape.
 Why is there such a proliferation of videos this year? ''It's all about the bottom line,'' said Lucy Mitchell-Innes, a Manhattan dealer. ''It's much cheaper to put a DVD in the mail than it is to bring a bronze sculpture.'' And what sculptures there are at ''Unlimited'' are often made of cheap materials, like a 1969 maze fashioned from rolls of cardboard by the Italian artist Michelangelo Pistoletto.
 For those jaded art lovers wondering if there are things on view here that haven't made it to New York, the answer can be found at Metro Pictures. That Chelsea gallery, which has a booth at the main fair, is featuring a new series by Cindy Sherman. It is actually wallpaper with backgrounds of Central Park and life-size images of Ms. Sherman posing naked with props like a sword or juggling clubs. Examples of the series were included in ''Sexuality and Transcendence'' at the Pinchuk Art Centre in Kiev this year. Janelle Reiring, of Metro Pictures, said collectors can order a single wall (about $150,000) or an entire room (around $700,000). They then receive a CD and a certificate.
 Ms. Sherman is getting ready for a show at the Museum of Modern Art in 2012, Ms. Reiring said, ''And the museum doesn't want us to show them in the United States before then.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 1969 maze made of rolls of cardboard by the Italian artist Michelangelo Pistoletto at the ''Unlimited'' section of Art Basel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



478 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Lower Gasoline Costs Push Consumer Prices Down

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Consumer prices fell in May for the second consecutive month, largely because of the lower cost of gasoline, the government reported on Thursday.
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics said that seasonally adjusted consumer prices fell 0.2 percent last month, after a decline of 0.1 percent in April. The drop was almost entirely the result of lower energy prices -- gasoline fell 5.2 percent in May, the largest decline this year. 
The core Consumer Price Index, however, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose slightly in May, by 0.1 percent. That core figure was flat in April and March, but the May increase was the second for the year. Prices for housing, used cars, apparel and medical care all rose last month, the statistics showed. 
 The figures suggest that, for now, inflation is tame, well below the Federal Reserve's unofficial target of about 2 percent. The Fed's policy committee is set to meet for two days next week.
 ''The Fed has got the flexibility to focus very firmly on growth,'' said David Semmens, a United States economist for Standard Chartered Bank. ''Inflation is definitely not a concern in the short or medium term.'' 
 Investors and economists will be closely monitoring the Fed meeting for any change in the language of the statement on rates. The chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told the House Budget Committee last week that the economy was still in a recovery mode and needed support. 
 Given the high unemployment and low inflation, the Fed is likely to wait until 2012 before it starts to raise interest rates, according to a research paper released Monday by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The bank does not represent the official position of the central bank.
 Most economists estimate that the Fed will increase the federal funds rate sooner. Mr. Semmens suggested such a move could come in the third quarter of next year or later.
 With inflation apparently under control, increasing employment is another priority. Weekly jobs data released on Thursday was weaker than expected. Initial claims for unemployment insurance rose by 12,000 from the previous week, to 472,000.
 Mr. Semmens said in a research note that the jobs data showed the country was ''still failing to create jobs at a pace that will tackle the high level of unemployment.'' 
 Ultimately, he said, consumers will be cautious about their spending because of the weak job market. 
 Consumer price statistics also showed that prices for housing rose 0.1 percent, the first rise since August 2009. The food index was unchanged after increasing 0.2 percent in the last two months.
 ''The U.S. economy is slowing down, particularly relating to the consumer,'' said Allen L. Sinai, president and chief global economist for Decision Economics. ''The jobs market is not improving, and we are observing a deflationary tendency in the price indices.''
 A report on Thursday on regional manufacturing activity showed a slowdown in activity. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said that regional manufacturers in a survey reported no expansion of overall employment and work hours this month, compared with May. 
 The survey said activity continued to expand in June, but at a slower rate than it did last month, with the index falling to 8.0 in June from 21.4 in May. 
 But manufacturers expected growth over the next six months.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GASOLINE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (66%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010



479 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Bullish Signals From G.M. And Toyota

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Two of the world's largest automakers signaled confidence in the economic recovery on Thursday, with Toyota announcing it would resume construction of a long-delayed plant in Mississippi and General Motors increasing output at most of its American operations.
 Toyota said it would hire 2,000 workers to start building Corolla compact cars at its $1.3 billion plant in Blue Springs, Miss., by the fall of 2011. The plant was 90 percent complete when Toyota halted work on it 18 months ago amid slumping sales across the industry. 
 G.M. said nine of its 11 assembly plants in this country would skip the regular two-week summer shutdown, which was to start later this month. The plants will remain open to build 56,000 additional vehicles, particularly new models that have been in short supply at many dealerships, the company said.
 Analysts said the two announcements reflected the growing optimism among carmakers that the worst was over for the auto industry. Over all, car sales in the United States fell 35 percent from 2007 to 2009, with 10.4 million vehicles sold last year compared with 16.1 million in 2007. But in the first five months this year, sales showed the start of a rebound, rising 17 percent. 
 ''We have a long way to go,'' said John Wolkonowicz, a senior auto analyst with the research company IHS Global Insight. ''But the level in the lake is rising, and most manufacturers are going to rise with it. You're going to see a lot more overtime and a lot of this standard vacation time not being taken.''
 Toyota said its sales were improving both as a result of a strengthening economy and its efforts to overcome the damage done to its reputation by recalls of about nine million vehicles worldwide since November.
 ''We're confident that we're seeing things improving,'' James E. Lentz, president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., said on a conference call. 
 ''We're starting to see some bright spots in the economy,'' Mr. Lentz added, but cautioned, ''It's not going to come roaring back.''
 The Ford Motor Company's chief market analyst, George Pipas, said Ford had already increased output to meet demand and still had two weeks of down time scheduled at its United States plants, though not all plants would shut down at the same time or in consecutive weeks. 
 Ford, whose sales are up 30 percent so far this year, previously said it was increasing production by 42 percent in the second quarter and 16 percent in the third quarter compared with levels a year earlier.
 ''The economy's recovering, but almost every day we get mixed signals,'' Mr. Pipas said. ''It seems like the economy takes a couple steps forward and then a couple steps backward.''
 The summer plant shutdown is a tradition among the Detroit automakers, which in past years used the down time to prepare assembly lines to make the next year's models. Today the practice is more of a union-negotiated perk than a necessity; G.M. said its contract with the United Automobile Workers gave it the flexibility to cancel a companywide shutdown.
 G.M. said it might need to use some temporary workers as it operated the assembly plants for the two extra weeks.
 ''Our manufacturing teams are taking creative approaches to increase production and reduce the wait times for our dealers and customers,'' Mark I. Reuss, president of G.M. North America, said in a statement.
 Toyota's decision to assemble the Corolla in Mississippi means it no longer has any near-term plans to build Prius hybrid cars in North America. 
 Since mid-2008, Toyota had been saying it would make the Prius at the Mississippi plant when it opened, but demand for hybrids has fallen sharply as gas prices have ebbed. When it was announced in 2007, the plant was to build Highlander sport utility vehicles.
 Mr. Lentz said Toyota had enough production capacity in Japan to meet demand for the Prius. Two years ago, many dealers had few Prius models, and some sold the car for thousands of dollars above sticker price. For 2010, Prius sales in the United States were down 31 percent through May compared with the same period of 2008.
 ''As soon as global supply falls short of global demand, I'm sure we'll take a look at what we can do here in the U.S.,'' he said. ''Today what's most important is that we bring North American production of the Corolla back.''
 Toyota stopped building the Corolla in the United States in April, when it closed a plant in Fremont, Calif. That plant, known as New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., or Nummi, had been a joint venture with G.M. until it withdrew after filing for bankruptcy protection last year.
 Toyota now plans to reopen the California plant in partnership with another automaker, Tesla, to build electric cars, but it will be a much smaller operation.
 The plan to move production of the Corolla, one of Toyota's top-selling vehicles, from the California plant, where workers were represented by the United Automobile Workers union, to the new Mississippi plant, where workers will not be represented by a union, drew harsh words on Thursday from the U.A.W.'s new president, Bob King.
 ''It's outrageous. It's a terrible business decision and clearly to us an anti-union decision,'' Mr. King said at his first news conference since being elected on Wednesday. ''They're running away from decently paid workers to much lower wages in Mississippi.''
 Mr. King, who this year joined picket lines against closing the California plant, said he would discuss the matter with the Obama administration.
 Mr. King is fighting to ensure that Toyota and Tesla rehire U.A.W. workers, and the labor secretary, Hilda L. Solis, told delegates at the U.A.W. convention here that the laid-off workers should be given first priority for the new jobs.
 More than 4,500 workers lost their jobs when the California plant, Toyota's only unionized factory, closed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



480 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: State Party In S. Carolina Rejects Bid For New Vote

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

 BODY:
In this age of candidate Twitter accounts and robocalls, the surprising victory in a South Carolina Democratic primary by Alvin M. Greene, 32, an unknown candidate without so much as a Web site, harks back to another era. 
 But the state's Democrats rejected a request by Mr. Greene's opponent for the Senate nomination, Vic Rawl, to turn back the clock in another way. Though members of the executive committee of the state's Democratic Party called the election ''flawed,'' they voted overwhelmingly Thursday to reject Mr. Rawl's request for a new primary.
 Representatives for Mr. Rawl, 64, a former judge, contended in a hearing in Columbia that the primary results were so rife with irregularities that they should be discarded.. 
 Mr. Rawl had spent $75,000 before the primary and logged 17,000 miles in his car, according to his campaign manager. But that netted him only about 41 percent of the vote. Mr. Greene, an unemployed war veteran who does not seem to have spent much beyond the $10,440 filing fee, won with 59 percent.
 The only explanation, Mr. Rawl's representatives told the committee, was faulty voting machines -- not chance, name order on the ballot, or Republicans crossing over to vote for the weaker Democrat. With testimony dominated by talk of standard variances, preference theories and voting machine software, the hearing took on the spirit of a political science seminar. 
 Walter Ludwig, Mr. Rawl's campaign manager, noted the ''very large disparity'' between Mr. Rawl's performance on absentee ballots and votes cast on Election Day, June 8. Academics and a network forensics expert presented a sweeping indictment of the reliability of electronic voting machines, and voters testified about thwarted efforts to vote for Mr. Rawl.
 But Chris Whitmire, a spokesman for the State Election Commission, said, ''We have no reason to doubt the outcome of the election or to believe that there were any irregularities concerning the voting system.'' 
 The commission had tested a sample of the machines after the election by feeding in a predetermined sequence of votes to confirm accuracy, Mr. Whitmire said, and all the machines passed.
 Mr. Greene did not attend the hearing or send a representative.
 ''I believe that what happened last Tuesday was deeply flawed,'' said Beatrice Johnson, a committeewoman. But she voted to reject Mr. Rawl's protest. ''As we continue to debate this issue, the Republicans continue to mount a fall campaign.''
 ''We're disappointed, obviously,'' said Mr. Ludwig. But he added that in shining a spotlight on the flaws of voting machines, ''there is a win in here.''
 State Senator Robert Ford, who unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for governor, called Mr. Rawl's protest ''just pure nonsense.''
 ''People didn't know Alvin Greene from Adam's housecat, and they didn't know Vic Rawl from Adam's housecat,'' Mr. Ford said in a telephone interview. ''They are picking on an innocent veteran who doesn't have any clout to look out for himself.''
 Mr. Greene and Mr. Ford were the only black statewide candidates in the primary. 
 Since his victory, Mr. Greene has been reluctant to speak to reporters. 
 But Mr. Ford, who said he met Mr. Greene while filing to run, offered insight into the motivation behind his bid for the nomination. He said Mr. Greene told him he had looked to the office of Senator Jim DeMint, the Republican incumbent, for help in dealing with his disability, but had received no response.
 Mr. Ford said Mr. Greene had told him: ''Senator, I'm not interested in campaigning. I'm just trying to send a message to DeMint: I don't like to be mistreated.''
 A spokesman for Mr. DeMint said there was no record of Mr. Greene's contacting his office.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vic Rawl, the loser in the South Carolina primary, announcing his protest. Alvin M. Greene, the victor, held a flier to prove he had campaigned. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN HAWES/THE POST AND COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MARY ANN CHASTAIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EVIDENCE (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); FORENSICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (73%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



481 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: That '30s Feeling

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
BERLIN
 Suddenly, creating jobs is out, inflicting pain is in. Condemning deficits and refusing to help a still-struggling economy has become the new fashion everywhere, including the United States, where 52 senators voted against extending aid to the unemployed despite the highest rate of long-term joblessness since the 1930s. 
 Many economists, myself included, regard this turn to austerity as a huge mistake. It raises memories of 1937, when F.D.R.'s premature attempt to balance the budget helped plunge a recovering economy back into severe recession. And here in Germany, a few scholars see parallels to the policies of Heinrich Bruning, the chancellor from 1930 to 1932, whose devotion to financial orthodoxy ended up sealing the doom of the Weimar Republic. 
 But despite these warnings, the deficit hawks are prevailing in most places -- and nowhere more than here, where the government has pledged 80 billion euros, almost $100 billion, in tax increases and spending cuts even though the economy continues to operate far below capacity.
 What's the economic logic behind the government's moves? The answer, as far as I can tell, is that there isn't any. Press German officials to explain why they need to impose austerity on a depressed economy, and you get rationales that don't add up. Point this out, and they come up with different rationales, which also don't add up. Arguing with German deficit hawks feels more than a bit like arguing with U.S. Iraq hawks back in 2002: They know what they want to do, and every time you refute one argument, they just come up with another.
 Here's roughly how the typical conversation goes (this is based both on my own experience and that of other American economists):
 German hawk: ''We must cut deficits immediately, because we have to deal with the fiscal burden of an aging population.''
 Ugly American: ''But that doesn't make sense. Even if you manage to save 80 billion euros -- which you won't, because the budget cuts will hurt your economy and reduce revenues -- the interest payments on that much debt would be less than a tenth of a percent of your G.D.P. So the austerity you're pursuing will threaten economic recovery while doing next to nothing to improve your long-run budget position.'' 
 German hawk: ''I won't try to argue the arithmetic. You have to take into account the market reaction.''
 Ugly American: ''But how do you know how the market will react? And anyway, why should the market be moved by policies that have almost no impact on the long-run fiscal position?''
 German hawk: ''You just don't understand our situation.''
 The key point is that while the advocates of austerity pose as hardheaded realists, doing what has to be done, they can't and won't justify their stance with actual numbers -- because the numbers do not, in fact, support their position. Nor can they claim that markets are demanding austerity. On the contrary, the German government remains able to borrow at rock-bottom interest rates. 
 So the real motivations for their obsession with austerity lie somewhere else.
 In America, many self-described deficit hawks are hypocrites, pure and simple: They're eager to slash benefits for those in need, but their concerns about red ink vanish when it comes to tax breaks for the wealthy. Thus, Senator Ben Nelson, who sanctimoniously declared that we can't afford $77 billion in aid to the unemployed, was instrumental in passing the first Bush tax cut, which cost a cool $1.3 trillion.
 German deficit hawkery seems more sincere. But it still has nothing to do with fiscal realism. Instead, it's about moralizing and posturing. Germans tend to think of running deficits as being morally wrong, while balancing budgets is considered virtuous, never mind the circumstances or economic logic. ''The last few hours were a singular show of strength,'' declared Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, after a special cabinet meeting agreed on the austerity plan. And showing strength -- or what is perceived as strength -- is what it's all about.
 There will, of course, be a price for this posturing. Only part of that price will fall on Germany: German austerity will worsen the crisis in the euro area, making it that much harder for Spain and other troubled economies to recover. Europe's troubles are also leading to a weak euro, which perversely helps German manufacturing, but also exports the consequences of German austerity to the rest of the world, including the United States.
 But German politicians seem determined to prove their strength by imposing suffering -- and politicians around the world are following their lead. 
 How bad will it be? Will it really be 1937 all over again? I don't know. What I do know is that economic policy around the world has taken a major wrong turn, and that the odds of a prolonged slump are rising by the day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); AGING TRENDS (61%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



482 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; WEEKEND MISER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Irreverent Bingo, a Virtual Subway Series and a Chinatown Arcade

BYLINE: By RACHEL LEE HARRIS

 BODY:
They say this city is a playground, so this week the Miser found some excellent ways to play without having to pay ... much. 
 Every Monday lay all your cards on the table for a most irreverent Bingo Nite. The drag queen Linda Simpson calls the numbers, and the shots, along with her wisecracking co-host, Murray Hill, at the Bowery Poetry Club starting at 7:30 p.m.-ish. Their sharp wit is a fine prize in itself, but the $2-a-card fee does go to a cash jackpot. Admission is free and tables fill quickly, so arrive early or just stand at the bar, where the sponsor, the Magic Hat Brewing Company, offers $4 drafts from 7 to 10 p.m. As Linda Simpson's Web site puts it, ''This ain't your grandma's bingo!'' (308 Bowery, between Houston and Bleecker Streets, East Village; bowerypoetry.com or lindasimpson.org.) 
 Yankees and Mets fans can get revved up for this weekend's Subway Series at the Delta Dugout in Madison Square Park. On Friday, Saturday and Sunday, amateurs can take a swing at virtual pitching and batting stations or enjoy inexpensive stadium-style snacks while watching highlight reels of New York baseball on a giant screen in the middle of the park -- just a few of the baseball-themed activities Delta Airlines is sponsoring there. The dugout opens at 10 a.m. and ends after a live showing of each Subway Series game. Expect appearances by former players, including a musical performance by Bernie Williams, along with prize giveaways. (Madison and Fifth Avenues, between 23rd and 26th Streets; complete schedule, facebook.com/delta.) 
 Accidentally throw your Wii wand at the television screen? The Chinatown Fair Video Arcade offers an excellent substitute for gamers, with the best of classics like Street Fighter and Dance Dance Revolution. Open every day, noon to midnight, with prices from 25 cents to $1.50, this arcade is one of the most economical options for getting your game on in the city. (8 Mott Street, at Chatham Square; 212-964-1542.) 
 FATHER'S DAY DEAL
 Nothing says ''Thanks, Dad'' like a live radio show and free clementines. O.K., many things do, but none quite as interestingly as the Horse Trade Theater Group's ''Cognac Live Radio Orchestra.'' The group describes the evening as a ''sweet tirade of radio plays, audio sketches and character pieces,'' accompanied by sound effects, synchronized with the narrative by foley artists, and featuring musical acts and a dance crew. Shows are pay-what-you-will on the third Sunday of each month. (7 p.m., Under St. Marks theater, 94 St. Marks Place, between First Avenue and Avenue A, East Village; horsetrade.info)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Murray Hill, Linda Simpson and the World Famous Bob host bingo at the Bowery Poetry Club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); MUSIC (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); DANCERS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); AIRLINES (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: MAGIC HAT BREWING CO & PERFORMING ARTS CENTER INC (70%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); NEW YORK METS (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (70%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (70%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (70%); TEXAS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



483 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: World's Mining Companies Covet Afghan Riches

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN; Alissa J. Rubin and Mujim Mashal contributed reporting from Kabul.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mining companies around the world are eager to exploit Afghanistan's newly discovered mineral wealth, but executives of Western firms caution that war, corruption and lack of roads and other infrastructure are likely to delay exploration for years. 
 A few high-risk investors are sufficiently intrigued by the country's potential to take an early look. JP Morgan, for instance, has just sent a team of mining experts to Afghanistan to examine possible projects to develop. 
 ''Afghanistan could be one of the leading producers of copper, gold, lithium and iron ore in the world,'' said Ian Hannam, a London-based banker and mining expert with JP Morgan. ''I believe this has the potential to be transforming for Afghanistan.'' 
 But executives with international mining firms said in interviews that while they believed that Afghanistan's mineral deposits held great potential, their businesses were not planning to move into the country until the war was over and the country more stable. 
 ''There are huge deposits there,'' said David Beatty, chief executive of Rio-Novo Gold, a mining company based in Toronto. ''But as chief executive, would I send a team to Kandahar? And then call a guy's wife after he gets shot? No.'' 
 It has long been known that Afghanistan had significant deposits of gemstones, copper and other minerals, but United States officials say they have discovered and documented major, previously unknown deposits, including copper, iron, gold and industrial metals like lithium. 
 A Pentagon team, working with geologists and other experts, has shared its data with the Afghan government, and is working with the Afghan Ministry of Mines to prepare information for potential investors in hopes of placing some mineral exploration rights up for auction within the next six months. On Thursday, Afghan officials said they believed that the American estimates of the value of the mineral deposits -- nearly $1 trillion -- were too conservative, and that they could be worth as much as $3 trillion.
 The Ministry of Mines also announced that it would take the first steps toward opening the country's reserves to international investors at a meeting next week in London. Two hundred investors from around the world have been invited to offer suggestions for how to develop the iron ore deposits at the Hajigak area of Bamian Province, according to Craig Andrews, the principal mining specialist for Afghanistan for the World Bank. 
 Nongovernment Western mining experts will be helping the ministry develop the bidding process, Mr. Andrews said.
 At a news conference in Kabul, Wahidullah Shahrani, the mines minister, pledged to make the bidding and contracting of mining rights as transparent as possible to reduce the possibility of corruption. He said the ministry would post contracts on its Web site. 
 Mr. Shahrani and his advisers cautioned against overly high expectations, underscoring that development would take years and that there were many obstacles to overcome, not least of all the lack of security in some of the areas with the most minerals and the lack of a transportation infrastructure. 
 International mining officials and independent experts echoed that view. Jim Yeager, a Colorado-based geologist and former consultant to the Afghan mines ministry, said that poorly written mining regulations could also hamper future development. 
 Afghan officials have interpreted their mining regulations in such a way that if a company is awarded a concession to explore and then discovers valuable minerals, the government can tender the concession back and rebid it, undermining any incentive for a foreign firm to actually find large deposits, he said. 
 ''They can take it back after you discover something,'' Mr. Yeager said. ''That needs to be corrected.'' 
 Several mining executives and other experts said that the multibillion-dollar investment required to build a large copper mine, for example, meant that the industry would focus on other deposits in less risky countries before they turned to Afghanistan.
 ''The industry is going to take a look at Afghanistan, but they will weigh their risks carefully,'' said Steve Vaughn, a Canadian lawyer and mining expert. ''There is every indication that these deposits are very large. But as political risks increase, they will lay off spending.'' 
 Today, many of the world's leading mining companies are based in Canada and Australia, but resource-hungry China is rapidly emerging as a major competitor for mineral deposits. A Chinese state-owned firm has already been awarded the concession for a copper mine in eastern Afghanistan.
 No, many mining industry executives say they expect the Chinese to bid aggressively on Afghanistan's newly discovered mineral deposits even as many Western firms sit it out. 
 Robert Schafer, executive vice president of Hunter Dickinson, an exploration and mining firm based in Vancouver, Canada, which lost the bid for the copper mine concession to the Chinese company, said he believed that the Chinese ''have a different perception of the risk'' because they see mineral resource development as part of a national strategy.
 ''Their concern is for the supply of a commodity, so they are willing to do things at a loss,'' Mr. Schafer said. ''So yes, I could see the Chinese being willing to make investments in areas where we are unwilling to.'' 
 Mining industry executives, as well as American officials, are also concerned about the corruption in the Afghan government, and are uncertain how to avoid turning the discovery of great mineral wealth into nothing more than a windfall for Kabul's oligarchs.
 ''I know some people have gone in to kick the tires, and some guys found there was too much risk, too much corruption, and didn't want to play the game,'' observed Mr. Yeager, the Colorado geologist. ''They have got to resolve the corruption issue.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (93%); CORRUPTION (89%); MINERAL LEASES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); IRON MINING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AUCTIONS (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%); CONSERVATISM (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (76%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



484 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate Persists on Spending and Tax Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Democrats failed Thursday night to break a partisan impasse over a major package of tax changes and safety-net spending, leaving the future of added unemployment benefits and a series of business tax breaks up in the air. 
 The Senate voted 56 to 40 against cutting off a Republican filibuster even though Democrats had reduced the cost of the bill to win over lawmakers worried about deficit spending. Sixty votes were required. 
 No Republican voted to end the debate on the measure, while Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska was the only Democrat to join in opposing the bill, along with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, an independent.
 Leading Democrats said they would reassess how to approach the stalemate, and aides said the measure might be temporarily set aside while lawmakers sought an agreement.
 ''We're not going to give up,'' said Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat and majority leader. ''We know the American people only have us to depend on.''
 The impasse has significant practical consequences. Without action, a 21 percent cut in doctor fees paid by Medicare would take effect, raising the prospect that some physicians might refuse Medicare patients. Tens of thousands of Americans who have exhausted their jobless benefits would not be eligible for more. 
 States counting on $24 billion in federal aid for help with health costs might have to make up the shortfall. And a host of tax breaks benefiting businesses and individuals would not be renewed. In addition, new taxes on wealthy investment managers would not be imposed, along with an increase in liability taxes on oil companies, leading Democrats to contend that Republicans were protecting Wall Street and the oil industry.
 ''They said yes to the special interest groups they always stand by,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat. 
 Republicans said they had a proposal that would take the same steps Democrats were advocating and avoid adding to the deficit by using unspent money from the 2009 stimulus plan. 
 ''Let's not wave on through legislation that is going to worsen the deficit and dig an even deeper hole than we are in,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. 
 The spending and tax measure has become caught up in intensifying politics around deficit spending as members of both parties, reacting to rising public concern, have grown reluctant to vote for measures that add to federal red ink. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BEN NELSON (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



485 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Obama Gets High Marks Abroad, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Struggling at home, President Obama has maintained much of his high popularity abroad after more than a year in office, a new global survey has found, receiving high marks for his handling of the economic crisis and the lowest for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
 According to a survey of nearly 25,000 people in 22 countries published Thursday by the Pew Research Center, the popularity of the United States has risen most notably over the past year among respondents in Russia and China. Both countries are permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and are essential to American efforts to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions. 
 The United States continues to have the most difficulty improving its image in Muslim countries. In Egypt, where Mr. Obama gave a much-heralded address in Cairo in June 2009, only 17 percent of those surveyed said they had a favorable view of the United States, the lowest rating in the five years Egyptians had been polled. Last year, 27 percent of those polled said they had a favorable view.
 Not only the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but also the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have reined in some of the enthusiasm generated by Mr. Obama's election in November 2008. Analysts said that enthusiasm was often based on expectations placed on a popular candidate that a president pursuing American interests would not be able to fulfill. 
 ''People around the world are starting to realize that not everything is going to change under Obama,'' said Johannes Thimm, an expert on American foreign policy at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs. ''But it's remarkable that the general bounce back from the Bush administration in the negative standing of the United States has held up.''
 ''Now the big challenge is for Obama to meet the expectations that he's created around the world,'' Mr. Thimm said.
 The Global Attitudes survey was conducted in April and early May both by telephone and through face-to-face interviews by the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan organization in Washington. Interviews were conducted nationwide in each country except China, India and Pakistan, in which samples were disproportionately urban. Margins of sampling error ranged from plus or minus 3 to 5 percentage points.
 Positive attitudes toward Mr. Obama himself remain overwhelmingly strong among America's West European allies, according to the survey, with 90 percent of Germans, 87 percent of French and 84 percent of Britons expressing confidence in Mr. Obama to do the right thing in world affairs, compared with 65 percent of Americans surveyed.
 Despite recent concerns about the euro in the midst of the European debt crisis, two-thirds of German and French people surveyed said they wanted to keep the euro, with 62 percent and 64 percent respectively saying they saw the European Union in a favorable light. 
 Among the more surprising results of the survey was the substantial improvement in Russian attitudes toward the United States. Of those surveyed, 57 percent said they had a favorable view of the United States, an increase of 13 percentage points over the previous year. Among Russians who say their country has an enemy, more than one-third, 35 percent, name the United States as its biggest enemy. 
 After sometimes difficult negotiations, Mr. Obama and President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia signed an arms-control treaty in Prague on April 8. The representative survey of 1,001 Russian adults was conducted between April 7 and May 1. 
 Among Chinese respondents, 58 percent said they had a favorable view of the United States, a number that has risen for three straight years from 34 percent in 2007. The more than 3,000 respondents in China were disproportionately urban, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
 At a moment of economic stagnation and instability around the world, Chinese confidence and optimism stood out, with 91 percent of the mostly urban respondents saying they thought their national economy was in good shape, and 87 percent saying they were satisfied with national conditions. That compared to just 30 percent of respondents nationwide in the United States and 26 percent of respondents nationwide in France who said they were satisfied with national conditions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); EURO CRISIS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (75%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



486 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Cut Budgets To Stimulate, Central Bank Tells Europe

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Less government spending will equal more economic growth, the European Central Bank asserted Thursday in a report, in an effort to keep up the pressure on less-troubled countries like Germany to cut their budgets. 
 Previous budget-cutting by countries including Ireland, the Netherlands and Finland led to faster growth fairly quickly, according to an analysis in the central bank's monthly bulletin for June that appeared to reflect the thinking of members of the bank's executive board. 
 In recent weeks the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, as well as presidents of national central banks have been urging governments -- which only months ago were starting cash-for-clunkers programs and other costly attempts to stimulate growth -- to move in the opposite direction. 
 ''Sustainable growth is not possible without healthy public finances,'' the Bank of Finland governor, Erkki Liikanen, said Thursday in a statement that echoed Mr. Trichet and other central bank policy makers. While cuts in government spending might temporarily slow growth, Mr. Liikanen said, ''the longer-term impact will be positive.'' 
 The United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, is among those who have questioned whether austerity drives by Germany and France could undercut growth. Many economists have also expressed concern that too much fiscal prudence could hurt Europe's economic recovery. 
 Adding to pressure on countries to cut spending, the bank's monthly bulletin also contained a report saying that if obligations like derivatives were included government debt was much higher than previously thought. 
 According to the method used by the European Union, member countries' total debt amounts to 79 percent of gross domestic product, already well over the limit of 60 percent agreed to by treaty. But under a broader definition of debt, the ratio is 92 percent, the central bank said. 
 The central bank cited several academic studies to justify the counterintuitive claim that fiscal austerity would help Europe grow more quickly. ''Although fiscal consolidation may imply costs in terms of lower economic growth in the short run,'' the report said, ''the longer-run beneficial effects of fiscal consolidation are undisputed.'' 
 Consumer confidence rises if citizens believe government finances are on a solid footing, the report said, and businesses pay lower risk premiums when they borrow money. 
 Eric Chaney, chief economist at the AXA Group in Paris, said that the central bank's assertion was probably true for some countries but not all. In Germany, where the fast-aging portion of the population is concerned about inflation and about whether the government will be able to pay their pensions, the austerity program might indeed bolster confidence, Mr. Chaney said. 
 ''It makes a lot of sense to start gaining credibility on the state of public finances in the long term,'' he said. ''At a certain point you have to start doing it.'' 
 But he questioned whether Spain should be radically cutting spending when it needed to be retraining workers so the economy could shift away from an overreliance on construction. Spain faces problems refinancing its government bonds in coming months, but the overall debt is only half that of Greece and the country is not in danger of going bankrupt, analysts say. 
 ''The markets are very skeptical about the consequences of a large fiscal adjustment in Spain, which I share,'' Mr. Chaney said. ''I'm not sure one size fits all.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Erkki Liikanen, governor of the Bank of Finland, pushed for ''healthy public finances.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRIK KETTUNEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EURO (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); AXA (82%); SUOMEN PANKKI (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

TICKER: CS (PAR) (82%); AXJ (ASX) (82%); AXA (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (69%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FINLAND (94%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



487 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Security Tops the Environment in China's Energy Plan

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
BEIJING -- When President Obama called this week for a ''national mission'' to expand the use of clean energy and increase American energy independence, Chinese officials might have nodded knowingly. 
 The government here is already far along in drafting energy legislation with similar goals for China, according to Chinese officials and executives.
 Like the energy future that Mr. Obama briefly described in his Oval Office address on Tuesday, the Chinese proposal calls for more reliance on renewable energy and greater emphasis on energy conservation, two drafters of the legislation said.
 But because this is China, there are big differences, too. In contrast to the Obama vision, the plan here preserves a central role for coal -- the dirtiest fossil fuel in terms of emissions of greenhouse gases, but a resource that China has in abundance. 
 And while Mr. Obama voiced goals of addressing climate change and improving national security at the same time, the discussions in China have been focused almost entirely on security issues, people inside and outside the government said.
 In other words, as China counts on more years of global leadership in economic growth, global warming remains a secondary concern. Secure sources of energy to fuel that growth are what matter most, whatever the implications for world energy markets and the global environment -- not to mention foreign investors, who may or may not have a significant role to play in China's energy industry under the draft law. 
 The proposed law, which is expected to be adopted by early next year, says that ''energy supply should be where you can plant your foot on it,'' meaning that as much as possible should come from within China, said Li Junfeng, a senior energy policy maker and member of the interagency committee drafting the law.
 That belief has underpinned China's rapid expansion in renewable energy, because it tends to be made in China, Mr. Li said. China has just emerged as the world's largest manufacturer of wind turbines and solar panels, and plans to be the world's biggest builder of nuclear power plants in the coming decade. It invested nearly twice as much as the United States last year in renewable energy.
 But energy security also explains the continued reliance on coal, for which China has the world's third-largest reserves, after the United States and Russia. Burning coal, which produces four-fifths of China's electricity, has already turned China into the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases by an ever-widening margin each year since 2006.
 Air pollution problems like acid rain have come up during the drafting process, but global warming has not figured prominently. China's top global warming negotiator, Xie Zhenhua, is not even on the 21-member commission that China created in January to set energy policy.
 ''There is a stronger sense of energy security than climate change,'' said Zou Ji, an international climate negotiator for China until his retirement last August; he is now the China country director for the World Resources Institute, an international environmental group.
 The American commerce secretary, Gary Locke, said that the Obama administration also wanted to foster energy security by looking for ways to produce more clean energy in the United States, and was not just focusing on environmental issues.
 ''Certainly energy independence is a high priority of President Obama, and energy independence does equal energy security,'' Mr. Locke said in an interview. 
 But China's soaring energy demand seems to give it a greater sense of urgency on the security front. 
 An oil exporter as recently as the early 1990s, China passed the United States last year as the biggest customer for Saudi oil and gas exports. Within as few as five years, it will be importing a higher percentage of its oil than the United States.
 That is of great concern to the Chinese government, where officials worry about the security of energy supplies from abroad. And it is why China's military and its main security and intelligence agency are playing an increasingly visible role in energy policy making.
 The deputy chairman of the joint chiefs of staff of the People's Liberation Army is on the new, 21-member National Energy Commission, as is the minister of state security.
 The bulk of China's imported oil comes through the Strait of Malacca, between Singapore and Malaysia on one side and Indonesia on the other. China is concerned that the strait is ''an area of American influence,'' said the president of a state-owned energy company who helped on early drafts of the energy law before taking his current job. He insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the draft.
 China has been drafting its energy law for more than three years. The government started by setting up committees to study 978 separate topics including oil, coal, wind, biomass and solar power, the company president said. 
 Mr. Li said that the draft law should be ready for the National People's Congress to approve this winter, either when the 175-member standing committee of the congress meets in December or when the full, nearly 3,000-member congress convenes in early March. 
 Approval by the congress is a legal formality, with all important decisions worked out in advance by ministers and their aides.
 While oil demand has risen inexorably in China, domestic production has barely increased. Chinese companies have struggled to acquire oil fields elsewhere. Shut out of the most attractive operations, which are already controlled by exporting countries or Western multinationals, Chinese companies have ventured into some of the world's most volatile countries, notably Sudan and now to some extent Iraq and Iran.
 One of the last issues still unresolved in the energy legislation involves the extent to which China should continue investing in such oil fields or rely on buying oil in world markets. Mr. Li says he personally believes that China's energy security does not improve when state-controlled oil companies buy oil fields in potentially unstable countries.
 ''A lot of companies say, 'I develop oil for China,' '' but are really out to make a profit for themselves, he said,
 Somali pirates have begun preying on tankers and freighters bound for China from the Mideast. That poses a challenge for China's navy, which is mostly designed for coastal defense.
 It also helps explain why China has been looking for ways to import more of its oil through pipelines instead of by sea, said Edward Cunningham, a China energy specialist at Harvard.
 Three issues are unresolved because they can be worked out only at the ministerial level, said Mr. Li, a deputy director general for energy research at the powerful National Development and Reform Commission.
 One is how much foreign investment should be allowed in China's energy industries. Foreign companies are now mostly limited to joint ventures in refining and retailing, and are barred from the ownership or production of most mineral resources.
 A second issue is how much competition should be introduced into the energy industries. The domestic oil industry in particular is almost entirely run by two state-controlled companies, Sinopec and PetroChina; both are descendants of the China National Petroleum Corporation.
 Finally, policy makers are still considering how best to provide clean, cost-effective energy in rural China. Incomes tend to be much lower in farming areas than in cities, and this has made the government wary of raising taxes sharply on gasoline and diesel, even though steep fuel taxes might limit consumption.
 Mr. Li said on Thursday that while China might be further along than the United States in drafting energy legislation, and might have a large and growing sector for the manufacture of renewable energy, it still needed American technology to improve its equipment.
 ''We need international cooperation,'' he said. ''America should be the leader.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Panels at a solar farm in Shilin in southwest China. China is the world's largest manufacturer of solar panels. (B1)
 Turbines of the Donghai Bridge Offshore Wind Farm in Shanghai. China invested almost twice as much in renewable energy last year as the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLOR CHINA PHOTO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHART: Worried About Oil Dependence: China, which once was a net exporter of oil, is concerned about its growing dependence on imported oil, which is projected to pass that of the United States soon. (Source: Wood Mackenzie Energy Markets Service) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (70%); ACID RAIN (69%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); TURBINE MFG (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



488 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; NASA Ordered to Show Budget Records

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
Annoyed that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has been slow to explain how it plans to overhaul the human space-flight program, a Congressional committee is demanding that the agency provide a host of records related to its budget request for 2011. 
 The space agency missed a Wednesday deadline to update its budget request with details of its new plan. In a letter sent Thursday to the NASA administrator, Maj. Gen. Charles F. Bolden Jr., leaders of the House Committee on Science and Technology wrote, ''Congress must now insist upon the production of all materials NASA relied upon in formulating its proposal.''
 The committee said NASA should provide these documents by next Friday.
 The Obama administration has proposed replacing NASA's current return-to-the-moon plans with research on new space technologies and an initiative to enlist commercial companies for launching people into orbit. 
 In particular, the House committee is looking for information about an expensive lifeboat spacecraft for the International Space Station that President Obama announced in April. The lifeboat is a stripped-down version of the Orion capsule that NASA has been developing to take astronauts to the International Space Station and later the Moon. 
 In February, as part of its budget request for the 2011 fiscal year, the administration announced it wanted to cancel Orion along with the rest of the moon program known as Constellation. Two months later, Mr. Obama shifted course somewhat and said that the Orion would continue, but in a truncated form to evacuate people from the space station in an emergency.
 For people working on the Orion program, their employment in limbo continues. With diminishing resources, they are making slower progress on the goals of the current program. Yet they have also received little direction of how to fit their work into the president's objectives for the next budget year, which begins Oct. 1.
 ''We have no budget and we have no requirements,'' said Julie Kramer White, NASA's chief engineer for Orion. ''What am I supposed to do? My choice is to best continue the best I can with what I have.''
 She said she was trying to preserve as flexibility as she could to handle whatever outcome, from cancellation to Congress deciding to restore the full version of Orion.
 General Bolden testified to Congressional committees last month that a NASA study team would provide recommendations to him by early June and a revised budget request would be sent to Congress ''in the near future.'' 
 The addition of an Orion lifeboat was intended to generate support for the president's plan, but many engineers inside and outside of NASA questioned the wisdom of the idea.
 ''I have not found anyone in the industry that thinks this makes any economic or technical sense,'' said Douglas O. Stanley, a researcher at the Georgia Institute of Technology who led the NASA study that came up with the Constellation approach in 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); CHARLES BOLDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



489 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: No Oil Is a Problem, Too

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.; Rob Harris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In addition to the fishermen and hoteliers whose livelihoods have been devastated by BP's hemorrhaging undersea oil well, another group of Gulf Coast residents is beginning to suffer: the tens of thousands of workers like Ronald Brown who run the equipment or serve in support roles on deepwater oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
 Mr. Brown, known as Rusty to his friends, is a ''shakerhand.'' In the rugged vernacular of offshore drilling, that means he monitors the mud flowing back from the drill hole thousands of feet below. 
 He works aboard the Ocean Monarch, which was idled along with 32 other oil rigs when the Obama administration ordered a six-month moratorium on all deepwater drilling after the April 20 Deepwater Horizon disaster. The rig's owner is now seeking customers in other parts of the world. If the rig moves, Mr. Brown and his fellow motormen, roughnecks and roustabouts will be left behind, jobless, with few alternatives that would pay anything close to the $3,500 to $4,000 a month typical for such jobs. 
 On Wednesday, President Obama and BP announced that the company had voluntarily agreed to create a $100 million fund to compensate such rig workers. That's a modest sum, critics say, given the potential economic losses. Each rig job supports roughly four additional jobs for cooks, supply-ship operators and others servicing the industry. Together, they represent total monthly wages of at least $165 million, according to estimates by a Louisiana oil industry group.
 Still, Mr. Brown is grateful for any assistance. ''Every little bit is going to help until we figure out where else to go,'' he said. ''But I'm not looking forward to unemployment, and I don't know how quickly we'll be able to get some of it.''
 In an address to the nation Tuesday night, Mr. Obama apologized for the effect on oil workers who had nothing to do with the BP accident. ''I know this creates difficulty for the people who work on these rigs,'' he said. ''But for the sake of their safety, and for the sake of the entire region, we need to know the facts before we allow deepwater drilling to continue.''
 The full economic impact of the drilling moratorium is still unclear, since many of the layoffs are just beginning and no one knows how long the ban will last. 
 The Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association has warned that many of the affected rigs will seek to drill in other countries, imperiling roughly 800 to 1,400 jobs per rig, including third-party support personnel. 
 The securities firm Raymond James & Associates predicts that the moratorium could last well into 2011, directly jeopardizing 50,000 jobs and potentially gutting blue-collar communities that rely heavily on the economic activity that comes with deepwater work. ''Just as the demise of auto plants and steel mills in the Upper Midwest devastated entire towns, an extended drilling ban could eventually have a similar effect in the Gulf Coast,'' the company said in a report Monday.
 Lawrence R. Dickerson, the chief executive of Diamond Offshore Drilling, which owns the Ocean Monarch and five other deepwater rigs in the gulf, was less pessimistic, suggesting that 15,000 to 20,000 rig and associated service jobs were at risk. He predicted that some deepwater rigs would remain in the area awaiting a resumption of drilling, but that all would be forced to cut staff as the moratorium continued. 
 Three Diamond rigs are already prospecting for jobs in the Mediterranean and West Africa. Should they leave, they would take less than half of their crew with them, Mr. Dickerson said. 
 The halt in drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet came in response to the still-unchecked gusher of oil that followed the Deepwater Horizon explosion, which killed 11 workers. The goal was to give the government time to review the rules and oversight of such wells, and the shutdown was welcomed by many Americans who have watched the environmental disaster unfold. 
 But like fishing and tourism, deepwater drilling is also crucial to the Gulf economy.
 At a Congressional hearing last week, Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat from Louisiana, confronted Interior Secretary Ken Salazar with a list of local companies that serviced and depended on offshore energy development. She said that a temporary drill ban, even if it only lasted a few months, could affect as many as 330,000 people in Louisiana alone. That would ''potentially wreak economic havoc on this region that exceeds the havoc wreaked by the spill itself,'' she said.
 Until two weeks ago, the Ocean Monarch -- a mammoth, $300 million semi-submersible not unlike the Deepwater Horizon owned by Transocean -- was poised to drill a well in 4,000 feet of water at a spot more than 100 miles offshore. About 115 workers from a variety of companies were onboard.
 After the moratorium, Cobalt International Energy, the company that had hired the Monarch and spent $60 million preparing to drill the well, said it was looking to dissolve the contract. 
 Those negotiations continue, but when two New York Times reporters visited the rig last week, it was squatting in just 50 feet of water 27 miles off the coast of Louisiana. On the deck, 75-foot segments of riser pipe were stacked in tidy rows two stories high, and the rig's manifest listed just 77 crew members aboard. 
 At a meeting with the crew, Mr. Dickerson talked about the uncertain future. ''You know, if we can't go back to work for a minimum six months or longer, it's awfully hard to leave rigs sitting here,'' he said.
 Once a rig moves, it tends to stay put, fulfilling multiyear contracts. Lower-level jobs are normally filled using the host country's work force.
 After the meeting with Mr. Dickerson, a handful of rig workers -- burly men in oil-stained T-shirts and overalls -- shared their gnawing fear that the jobs that paid their modest mortgages, doctor bills and children's tuitions were about to disappear. 
 Louis Alvarez, a motorman and 21-year veteran with Diamond Offshore, said that a layoff could hinder plans that he and his wife had made to send their son to college in the fall. ''It's a shame that I have to tell my 18-year-old son that he might have to help his daddy buy groceries,'' he said. 
 Mr. Brown, the shakerhand, began to cry when he said that his wife, Athena, was now looking for a job. 
 A broad-shouldered, broad-faced man, Mr. Brown, 29, is paid roughly $22 an hour to work the rig's standard two-week-on, two-week-off cycle, supplemented by occasional overtime. That's enough to support Athena and their three children: 5-year-old Shiloh, 3-year-old Maelah, and 1-year-old Bennett, who wears a brace to help correct club feet. 
 The job prospects around their home in Magee, Miss., a dilapidated town of about 4,000, are few. Tyson Foods and Polk's Meat Products have plants in the area, but would be unlikely to match a rig worker's paycheck.
 In an interview at their home, Mrs. Brown said that someday, the country might find a low-cost alternative to oil. 
 ''But we don't have an option right now,'' she said. ''For us to stop drilling in the gulf is like ending our lives as far as the way we live. It's really that scary.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ronald Brown, top, earns about $22 an hour on the Ocean Monarch oil rig, which was idled by the deepwater drilling ban. His wife, Athena, above, is now looking for a job to help support their three children. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB HARRIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Lawrence R. Dickerson, upper right, chief executive of Diamond Offshore Drilling, which owns the Ocean Monarch oil rig, speaks to rig crew members about their uncertain future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB HARRIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (50%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



490 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2198 words

HEADLINE: Sale of Ministry Property Positioned Queens Pastor to Gain Riches

BYLINE: By RUSS BUETTNER

 BODY:
For 25 years, the Rev. Floyd H. Flake's Greater Allen African Methodist Episcopal Cathedral of New York successfully ran a 300-unit apartment complex for the elderly in southeastern Queens. 
 The two eight-story buildings, built and subsidized with public money, were well maintained by one of the church's charities. There was also a city-financed van service, a meals program for seniors and a women's shelter, all on the site.
 Then, about four years ago, the church sold the project for $14 million to a for-profit partnership. Tenants received a notice in the mail, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg hailed the transaction as contributing to his efforts to preserve and build housing for moderate- and low-income residents.
 But the announcements did not reveal the identity of the new controlling owners: Mr. Flake, the Rev. Edwin C. Reed, who was then the church's former chief financial officer, and two real estate developers, Peter G. Florey and Leonard T. D'Amico. 
 After taking ownership, Mr. Flake, one of the city's most politically influential pastors, and his partners decided how to split a $1.1 million fee for overseeing renovation work at the project. They also decide alone how much to pay themselves for their services from the $4.3 million in cash after expenses that the city expects the property to produce through 2018. 
 The sale shows how lucrative financial deals involving public money and well-connected insiders can be arranged without competitive bidding and with little public attention. Mr. Flake, a former United States representative, has remained a political force in New York as the church has expanded under his leadership to some 20,000 parishioners and an annual budget, including subsidiaries, of $34 million, according to its Internet site. 
 His endorsements, never assured based on political party, are valued for his perceived influence over his parishioners and in the wider African-American community, and he has backed Mr. Bloomberg in his last two campaigns. 
 The sale received all the required legal approvals. But irregularities in the application appear to have gone unaddressed during a short, expedited review.
 Close-Knit Parties
 William Josephson, who headed the attorney general's charity bureau from 1999 through 2004, said the sale sounded like the sort that should have received a heightened level of scrutiny because Mr. Flake and Mr. Reed had roles as both sellers and buyers.
 ''Clearly, it's not an arms-length transaction,'' Mr. Josephson said.
 The sale was approved in late 2006 by the office of the state attorney general, which was then led by Eliot Spitzer, who had just been elected governor. The lawyer who filed the papers with Mr. Spitzer's office was at the time also serving as a consultant to Mr. Spitzer's campaign and the treasurer of the campaign of Mr. Spitzer's running mate, David A. Paterson, the current governor. 
 The final approval came from a court in Queens. Five hours after it was filed, the nearly 600-page petition was signed by both a judge and, serving an administrative role, the clerk of the court, Gloria D'Amico, the mother of Mr. D'Amico, one of the partners. 
 The purchase required no cash investment from the partnership, and it was not open to bidding from others. The deal, which included plans for the renovations, was financed with $21.3 million in loans and cash from government programs intended to pay for the rehabilitation of apartment buildings for low-income elderly people. It is unclear how much of that work was ever accomplished.
 Mr. Flake's finances became a matter of public curiosity this year when he emerged as a minor partner in a bid to operate a casino at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens. Mr. Flake, with a stake of less than 1 percent, said he was motivated by the real estate development potential, but he withdrew just as all investors were required to disclose their financial holdings. The bids were later thrown out amid allegations of political favoritism, and the bidding process is now the subject of a state investigation.
 Through his office, Mr. Flake refused repeated requests from The New York Times to talk about the sale of the senior housing project and his role as a beneficiary. His office referred questions to Mr. Florey, with whom Mr. Flake had worked on many other of the church's real estate projects. 
 Mr. Florey, who would respond only to questions submitted in writing, said the rehabilitation work had been a success.
 ''In short, we feel that by making these upgrades we have made a great community even better,'' Mr. Florey said in a statement.
 Mr. Flake took over leadership of the church, then a parish of about 1,400, in 1976. He had been serving as dean of the chapel at Boston University and has said that he saw the post at what was then called Allen A.M.E. Church as an opportunity to test his ideas about churches performing community development. 
 The Allen A.M.E. Senior Citizens Housing Complex was his first major real estate undertaking. In 1978, the city sold nearly two acres on Linden Boulevard to one of the church's nonprofit affiliates, the Allen A.M.E. Housing Development Fund Corporation, for $150,000. The federal Department of Housing and Urban Development provided a $10.7 million mortgage, and the complex opened in 1981.
 Mr. Flake's influence grew. He was elected the area's United States representative in 1986. Less than four years later, prosecutors charged Mr. Flake and his wife and co-pastor, Elaine McCollins Flake, with tax evasion and embezzlement. A judge threw out much of the government's case, and prosecutors dropped the remaining charges. 
 Mr. Flake went on to thrive both on Capitol Hill and from the pulpit. Then, in 1997, just as construction of a new $23 million cathedral was being finished, he abruptly resigned from the House of Representatives, citing a desire to focus on the church. 
 He has only grown as an engine of economic development in Queens, having overseen the church's development of a strip mall, a private school and other residential and commercial real estate projects. The support of the city -- through property tax breaks, zoning changes and low-cost properties for redevelopment -- has been central to that growth. 
 As the church's reach grew, so did the wealth of Mr. Flake and his wife. After years of living in a church-owned house near the cathedral, in 2001 they bought a 7,200-square-foot house in Old Westbury, N.Y. Church affiliates have paid the couple nearly $1 million in annual salary in recent years.
 All the while, the senior citizen apartment complex remained a central legacy of Mr. Flake's career.
 By mid-2006, Mr. Flake had begun the process of shifting the senior center to private, for-profit ownership.
 The deal was made possible by a change in federal law in 2000 that made it attractive for senior apartment complexes built under a federal housing program to refinance their old HUD loans. The goal was to supply an infusion of money so that the aging buildings could be renovated and remain affordable. 
 The new law allowed for-profit businesses to be involved in owning the projects for the first time, and it fit well with one of Mr. Bloomberg's most ambitious social initiatives: to build or preserve 165,000 units of affordable housing. In late 2004 the city's Housing Development Corporation began encouraging eligible senior complexes to refinance their old federal loans. 
 The deals are described as refinancings. But in order to take advantage of certain tax credits, they typically involve a ''sale'' of the property, often one that exists only on paper. The properties are not listed for sale on the open market and rarely change hands. 
 For most charities seeking to refinance, HUD requires that the charity that built the project, or another charity with experience running similar projects, remain in control by being the only member in a general partnership. But the Allen A.M.E. loan was issued during a five-year window in which the federal housing agency had no jurisdiction over how the partnership was made up.
 ''They could sell it to you and your uncle, because they don't need HUD's permission or approval,'' said Scott E. Fireison, a lawyer who specializes in such deals from the Washington office of Pepper Hamilton, a national law firm.
 Mr. Flake and his partners structured the deal so that they control 99.99 percent of the general partnership through two for-profit limited liability companies. The remainder is held by a nonprofit entity, headed by Mr. Florey and Mr. D'Amico, necessary to receive a property tax break from the city.
 The structure allows the four partners to decide what fees to pay themselves, according to several experts who reviewed the structure of the partnership at the request of The New York Times. 
 The partnership is obligated to pay the $14 million new mortgage for the housing complex. But subsidized rents and strong demand for the apartments all but guarantee a positive cash flow. After paying expenses, including property taxes and the extra costs of the larger mortgage, the property's annual net cash flow should climb steadily to more than $500,000 by 2017, according to an analysis by the city's Housing Development Corporation.
 At the time of the deal, apartments in the project rented for an average of $962 a month, with the federal Section 8 subsidy program covering about 70 percent of the total.
 The partnership is not required to publicly disclose its finances. Mr. Florey declined to address what fees the partners have paid themselves or whether any agreement precludes Mr. Flake from paying himself fees. 
 The Approval Processes
 The review of the sale fell to the state attorney general's office and the State Supreme Court in Queens, as required by state law when a charity sells ''substantially all'' of its assets. 
 The review is supposed to evaluate whether the sale price is fair and to ensure that the board of the charity selling the property has approved the sale.
 But the petition filed with the court shows that the charity's board approved the sale at $17 million, not the actual sale price of $14 million.
 And the list of the five board members who approved the deal includes two church leaders who were not listed as board members in tax returns before or after the sale. 
 Joan E. Flowers, a Queens lawyer, filed the petition with the attorney general's office on Nov. 9, 2006, two days after the election that elevated Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Paterson to governor and lieutenant governor. Ms. Flowers was at the time a consultant to Mr. Spitzer's campaign and the treasurer for Mr. Paterson's. 
 The attorney general's office approved the sale on Dec. 11, 2006. A spokesman for the current attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, said the office's records show that the petition received no special treatment. 
 Two days later, Ms. Flowers filed the petition with the State Supreme Court in Queens. In a handwritten note, she requested an emergency decision.
 The court obliged. Augustus C. Agate, the judge who signed the order five hours after the petition was filed, said through a spokesman that he conducted a ''perfunctory'' review of the first six pages of the filing, a level of scrutiny he believed was normal for the court's emergency section. ''The attorney general's stamp is on there,'' said the spokesman, David Bookstaver. ''As long as the papers are in order, they get signed.''
 He added that the judge had been unaware that the court clerk's son was one of the partners. 
 The clerk, Ms. D'Amico, did not respond to requests for comment.
 The Planned Renovations
 Today, it is hard to tell to what extent the very things the transaction was meant to achieve -- millions of dollars in renovations -- have actually been done. Even before the change in ownership the complex had been ''well maintained'' with ''relatively new'' thermopane windows and a six-year-old roof, noted Kathleen M. Carroll, the Queens-based appraiser hired by Mr. Flake's partners, in her 2006 report.
 Nonetheless, the plan called for $4.4 million to be spent on construction. That money was to come from the $7.3 million in proceeds from the sale of low-income housing tax credits, an indirect federal subsidy, that the project was awarded. 
 Mr. Florey and Mr. D'Amico's company, D&F Construction Group, served as the contractor for the improvements. Mr. Florey said the work included the installation of 240 security cameras, new kitchens and work on the roof, the boiler and the plumbing and electrical systems. 
 ''Age and functional obsolescence of the buildings' components were the primary impetus for the upgrades,'' Mr. Florey said in a written answer to a question submitted to him.
 Tenants at the complex said they recalled their units getting new toilets and kitchen cabinets. But unlike in similar deals financed by the city's Housing Development Corporation, Mr. Florey did not seek any construction permits, which city regulations require for everything except minor alterations and ordinary repairs. A spokeswoman said no city agency was responsible for verifying construction expenditures on the refinanced projects.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Floyd H. Flake is part of a for-profit partnership that bought a senior citizen complex from a charity of his church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The church: Greater Allen African Methodist Episcopal Cathedral in St. Albans, where Mr. Flake has overseen huge growth in 34 years as pastor.
The new owners: Mr. Flake and three others control the project as general partners. Two of them also own the construction company that was to do work on the two buildings. (A24) CHART: Anatomy of the Deal: How the Rev. Floyd H. Flake and his partners used public money to buy control of a lucrative Queens housing project from Mr. Flake's church in 2006. (Sources: N.Y.C. Housing Development Corp.
 HUD) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RELIGION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); AGING (77%); CHARITIES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LAWYERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); GOVERNORS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



491 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Strong Steps Or Oversteps?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- First there was General Motors, whose chief executive was summarily dismissed by the White House shortly before the government became the company's majority shareholder. Chrysler was forced into a merger. At the banks that received government bailouts, executive pay was curbed; at insurance companies seeking to jack up premiums, scathing criticism led to rollbacks.
 But President Obama's successful move to force BP to establish a $20 billion compensation fund that the company will have no voice in allocating -- just a down payment, the president insisted -- may have been the most vivid example of what he recently called his determination to step in and do ''what individuals couldn't do and corporations wouldn't do.'' 
 With that display of raw arm-twisting, Mr. Obama reinvigorated a debate about the renewed reach of government power, or, alternatively, the power of government overreach. It is an argument that has come to define Mr. Obama's first 18 months in office, and one that Mr. Obama clearly hopes to make a central issue in November's midterm elections. 
 To Mr. Obama, this is all about rebalancing the books after two decades in which multinationals sometimes acted like mini-states beyond government reach, abetted by a faith in markets that, as Mr. Obama put it at Carnegie Mellon University a few weeks ago, ''gutted regulations and put industry insiders in charge of industry oversight.'' When Representative Joe L. Barton, the Texas Republican, opened hearings Thursday about the gulf oil gusher by accusing Mr. Obama of an unconstitutional ''shakedown'' of BP to create a ''slush fund,'' he was giving voice to an alternative narrative, a bubbling certainty in corporate suites that Mr. Obama, whenever faced with crisis that involves private-sector players, reveals himself to be viscerally antibusiness. 
 The reality, not surprisingly, is more complex. 
 Mr. Obama clearly sees his presidency as far more than a bully pulpit -- he has cast himself as a last line of defense against market excesses that take many different forms. ''In the past, corporate America was not only at the table, they owned the table and the chairs around it,'' Mr. Obama's combative chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, said in an interview Thursday. ''Obama doesn't start off confrontational, but he will be confrontational if there is resistance to the notion that there are other equities.'' 
 But at the same moment, as his critics on the left have pointed out, Mr. Obama has been warding off calls for far more stringent regulations of the banks, hoping to win at least a modicum of business support -- and to defuse the notion that he is at war with American-style capitalism.
 Each of his confrontations with corporate executives had its own rationale. G.M. had become so uncompetitive, Mr. Obama argued, that its imminent collapse was threatening the jobs of millions of workers; the only way to save the company from its own worst instincts was to become its temporary owner and bring new blood into the boardroom. (It will take years to determine if that worked, but on Thursday, though it was overshadowed by the grilling of BP's chief executive on Capitol Hill, G.M. announced it was forgoing its usual summer shutdown of most of its plants so it could meet renewed demand.)
 The Wall Street executives who needed the government to prop them up, but still thought their services were worth millions a year, were cast by Mr. Obama as a shameless privileged class. Toyota was described as seeking profits over safety; Wellpoint, the insurance giant, was castigated for seeking to insulate itself from the new health care legislation by taking actions that the law will soon prohibit. 
 Against that backdrop, forcing BP to take a $20 billion bath -- even before the inevitable lawsuits are filed -- seemed an easy decision. Mr. Obama had no legal basis for the demand, but concluded he did not need one. ''He had a power other presidents have used -- you call it jawboning,'' Mr. Emanuel said. 
 The question is whether the cumulative effects of these actions create an impression that, over the long run, may make it harder to persuade both American and foreign corporations to cooperate with Mr. Obama's program to reinvest and reinvigorate the American economy. 
 ''He's walking a very fine line here,'' said Jeffrey Garten, a professor of trade and international finance at the Yale School of Management and a former top official in the Clinton administration's Commerce Department. ''He is taking each case on the merits as he sees it, but he runs the risk of sowing a level of mistrust about all big companies. And it's those companies -- not small businesses -- that he will need to invest and innovate for the kind of recovery he wants.'' 
 Mr. Obama is betting that Republicans are also walking a fine line. That became evident Thursday as Republican leaders distanced themselves from Representative Barton's outburst, which included the charge that Mr. Obama was acting illegally by applying ''some sort of political pressure that in my words amounts to a shakedown.'' 
 Mr. Obama's aides clearly relished the idea of a Texas Republican dependent on donors from the energy industry who was actually apologizing to BP. As a political strategy, they appear to be adapting the course taken by Franklin D. Roosevelt, who seized on a mood of distrust when, in the closing days of the 1936 campaign, he said: ''I should like to have it said of my first administration that in it the forces of selfishness and of lust for power met their match.'' When the applause subsided, he added: ''I should like to have it said of my second administration that in it these forces met their master.''
 It is in the ''master'' role, however, that Mr. Obama and his advisers know he is on dangerous ground. He has responded to his critics by making the case that every time American business predicted ruin from government intervention -- that ''Social Security would lead to socialism, and that Medicare was a government takeover'' -- American capitalism survived.
 It did. But just as Mr. Obama's fortunes last year depended on a G.M. turnaround, his fortunes this year depend on demonstrating that the health care legislation that he pushed through both reduces costs for the consumers and saves taxpayers money. 
 And his fortunes over the next two years depend, in part, on showing that he can both turn off the spigot of oil in the gulf and turn on the spigot of aid -- out of the coffers of BP's shareholders. Along the way, he will have to avoid painting with such a broad brush that foreign and domestic investors come to view the United States as a too risky place to do business, a country where big mistakes can lead to vilification and, perhaps, bankruptcy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



492 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Lockheed in Talks to Reduce Price of F-35 Planes by 20%

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Lockheed Martin is negotiating to cut the price for the next group of its new F-35 fighter planes to at least 20 percent less than Pentagon officials projected last fall, Robert J. Stevens, the chief executive, said Thursday. 
 The company, which has been under pressure because of costly delays, is likely to build those planes under a contract with a fixed price, Mr. Stevens said. He said Lockheed could earn bonuses for meeting production milestones. 
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates recently revamped the F-35 program and removed the general in charge, after long delays caused the Pentagon's projected costs to soar by 64 percent to $382 billion for 2,457 planes.
 Mr. Stevens told reporters that the contract would start a transition to fixed prices for the stealth planes two years earlier than planned. He would not say what that price was likely to be for the next group of 32 planes.
 But he said Lockheed was confident enough that it was regaining control of the F-35 program, the Pentagon's largest, to start bearing more of the risk instead of leaving the federal government obligated to cover any cost increases. 
 Mr. Stevens also said that Lockheed, the world's largest military contractor, had begun to trim spending throughout the company in recognition of ''the new reality we face,'' with military budgets tightening in response to economic woes.
 To reinforce the need to cut costs, Mr. Stevens said that he would not attend one of the industry's most lavish promotional events, the Farnborough International Airshow outside London, next month. He said Lockheed would send only half as many people as usual. 
 Bruce L. Tanner, Lockheed's executive vice president and chief financial officer, said in an interview that it could save hundreds of millions of dollars through the cost-cutting, which began in February. 
 Last month Mr. Gates also called for cuts in the Pentagon bureaucracy to free more money for troops in the field.
 The Air Force, the Navy and the Marines are all buying their own versions of the F-35, known as the Joint Strike Fighter. Eight other nations have invested in developing the F-35 and could buy hundreds of the planes. 
 Mr. Stevens said on Thursday that the $382 billion estimate over 25 years ''shows the potential'' if nothing changed in the program. But, he said, ''we're determined to beat the government cost estimate.''
 The Pentagon has already ordered 31 of the planes. The contract now being negotiated would cover 32 more.
 Not counting the research and development costs, the Pentagon recently projected that the 2,457 planes could cost an average of $92.4 million before adjusting for inflation, compared with an estimate of $50 million in 2002.
 Mr. Stevens said that if the Pentagon kept buying the planes at the planned pace, Lockheed believed it could bring the cost down, by 2014 to 2015, to a level comparable to updated and fully loaded versions of older fighters. That would mean reducing the price of each F-35 to $65 million or less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%)

PERSON: ROBERT J STEVENS (91%); ROBERT M GATES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



493 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Answers, Finding One

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the 58th day, an outraged nation summoned the man it holds responsible for one of the worst environmental disasters in American history. He walked through the oversize wooden doors, shed the protective cocoon of his dark-suited entourage and took his place at a long table.
 Sitting there, alone, with a microphone pointed at his face like a long finger of accusation, the oil titan looked so small -- diminished, it seemed, by the immensity of the environmental, economic and social damage done. 
 ''I am deeply sorry,'' he said. 
 ''Devastated,'' he said.
 ''I'm not a cement engineer, I'm afraid,'' he said.
 ''I was not part of that decision-making process,'' he said. 
 This was Tony Hayward, the British chief executive for BP, called by Congress to answer for the explosion of a rig on April 20th that killed 11 workers and unleashed an as-yet-unstoppable sea of oil. The disaster has fundamentally altered many parts of American life.
 And on Thursday, Mr. Hayward had to play his part in an American ritual that often follows catastrophe: a Congressional hearing, in which blustering politicians demand, stammering witnesses dodge, and the people living beyond those large wooden doors are given the sense that someone is being held accountable -- even publicly shamed.
 In that respect, Mr. Hayward performed his role well.
 For much of the morning, the Capitol Hill dock awaited its guest. Then, shortly before 10, an unnerving hush announced Mr. Hayward's arrival, a hush interrupted only by waves of repetitive camera clicks. All for a man of 53 who seems almost boyish, with his tousled dark hair, rosy cheeks and eyebrows forever arched, conveying a look somewhere between earnestness and amusement.
 Mr. Hayward walked over to the one chair, reserved for him, then realized that he would have to wait. He turned his back on the shuttering cameras and stood with several aides in awkward silence, waiting. One aide whispered to another, ''I told him not to come in so early.''
 Here, then, was a moment to study the man. He has dedicated more than half his life to BP, working his way up as a geologist, exploration manager, and inner-circle executive. Though an American ear might hear aristocracy in his voice, his accent ''reveals modest roots,'' according to The Independent, a British newspaper. He is married, with children.
 Yet when we see an oil-drenched gull, a docked shrimp boat, or the live-camera feed of oil spilling from the ocean floor, we think of Tony Hayward. Who wants his life back. Who thought this spill a drop in a vast ocean. Who is so tone deaf at times that it seems the oil-rig explosion affected his hearing. 
 The devastating spill, his spill, has sent clumps of oil washing onto shores from Louisiana to Capitol Hill. This week alone, several oil company chairmen stood in the Congressional dock; President Obama dedicated his first speech from the Oval Office to the disaster; and BP announced that it would create a $20 billion fund to cover claims arising from the spill, following a private meeting at the White House between a frustrated Mr. Obama and several BP officials, including Mr. Hayward.
 Now Mr. Hayward was back, this time in a wide, red-carpeted room offering nowhere to hide. He took his seat, and, for several hours, sidestepped direct answers to pointed questions with a politeness that bordered on being impolite.
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, the Democrat from California who is chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, set the mood. He first thanked Mr. Hayward for his appearance, then scored him for being an oblivious chief executive officer. 
 Mr. Waxman cited a subcommittee investigation that concluded that BP took shortcuts in constructing the fatal well ''to save a million dollars here and a few hours or days there,'' and added there was no evidence that Mr. Hayward ''paid even the slightest attention to the dangers at this well.''
 In other words, Mr. Hayward: Welcome. And there is a pitcher of ice water in front of you, should your throat feel dry.
 For the next hour, a Greek chorus of Democrats and Republican used their opening statements to express the anger of a nation. The elected officials recalled that BP has a troubled safety record, responsible for other disasters: a deadly refinery explosion in 2005; an oil spill in Alaska in 2006. One representative questioned the depth of Mr. Hayward's sorrow. Another told him he had violated the public trust. Yet another wondered whether it was time for him to resign.
 After being sworn in, Mr. Hayward began to read a written statement, only to be interrupted by a woman -- a shrimper, it was said -- who raised her oil-stained hands and shouted, ''You need to be charged with a crime!'' As officers wrestled her out, she repeated her assessment of the witness.
 Mr. Hayward, who did not turn to watch the eruption, continued with his apology, advised that ''it was simply too early to say what caused the incident'' -- and spent the next five hours saying little beyond that.
 No matter how hard Mr. Waxman pushed him, or how sharply the subcommittee chairman, Representative Bart Stupak, the Michigan Democrat, spoke to him, or how many documents were cited to suggest that BP put profit before safety at the Deepwater Horizon rig, Mr. Hayward essentially provided one answer:
 ''I was not part of that decision-making process.''
 Throughout, Mr. Hayward maintained that look of amused earnestness. He moved his cup of water an inch. He jotted an occasional note. Sometimes his gaze seemed not directed at the speaker but somewhere in the wood-paneled distance -- as though the repeated suggestions that he resign might not be such a bad idea.
 Well after 5 p.m., the gavel came down with an angry: enough! Mr. Hayward's dark-suited entourage ushered their small, boyish boss to an awaiting S.U.V. In the seven hours since the hearing began, as many as 735,000 gallons of oil leaked into the gulf. 
 And Friday is the 59th day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tony Hayward answered questions from House members, including Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, and Mike Doyle, Democrat of Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The appearance of Mr. Hayward before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce on Thursday drew demonstrators, who gathered outside and inside the building where he gave his testimony. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); OCEANS (60%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (90%); MICHAEL F DOYLE (52%); MARSHA BLACKBURN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



494 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: A Business School Model

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The 'Learning Knights' of Bell Telephone,'' by Wes Davis (Op-Ed, June 16): 
 It's a shame that Bell Telephone's Institute of Humanistic Studies for Executives lasted only during the 1950s. Happily, though, the model is alive and kicking at Johns Hopkins University, where this fall we will unveil an M.B.A. program whose emphasis on intellectual flexibility reflects the Bell initiative's efforts to move its junior managers beyond rote answers to consideration of ''what questions are worth asking.''
 Business education has indeed focused too much on supplying a standard set of financial implements without providing the critical thinking, creativity and empathy that will be the essential tools of the 21st-century business person.
 The old orthodoxy and its concomitant allegiance to shareholder value have contributed in no small way to the current economic disorder, and so if we are to bring much-needed change to the way business is practiced, we must change the way it is taught.
 Yash Gupta Baltimore, June 16, 2010
 The writer is the dean of the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%) MARYLAND, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



495 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reveals Mortgage Fraud Crackdown

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Federal prosecutors have charged 1,215 people in hundreds of mortgage fraud cases that resulted in estimated losses of $2.3 billion, administration officials said on Thursday, unveiling a crackdown after the housing market collapse. 
 The administration has been under pressure to root out mortgage fraud and improve oversight after the housing bubble touched off a global economic slide and led to a cascade of home foreclosures in the United States.
 In the last three-and-a-half months, authorities have made 485 arrests in the fraud cases, obtained 336 individual convictions and recovered more than $147 million, the Justice Department said.
 ''We have seen cases that have resulted in dozens of foreclosures and millions in losses, as well as fraudsters who have bankrupted entire companies and national lenders who were not playing by the rules,'' Attorney General Eric H. Holder said.
 The announcement came a day after prosecutors accused the former head of a defunct mortgage lender, Lee Farkas, of a scheme that led to multibillion-dollar losses.
 Robert S. Mueller III, the F.B.I. director, said that authorities were pursuing more than 3,000 mortgage fraud cases, a number that has nearly doubled since 2008. 
 ''We have still a number of ongoing investigations,'' Mr. Mueller said. ''I can assure you that where we have allegations of fraud in larger institutions, we are continuing the investigations that we've started over the last several years.''
 Last year, the Justice Department was dealt a setback when two former hedge fund managers at Bear Stearns were acquitted of various fraud charges related to two funds containing subprime mortgage-backed securities.
 It was seen as a test case for prosecuting people involved in the financial crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE FRAUD (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



496 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Hurt by Hedging, Smithfield Foods Posts Loss

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The hog and pork producer Smithfield Foodsposted a quarterly loss on Thursday, hurt by its hedging in the agricultural futures market. 
 The company, based in Smithfield, Va., reported an overall net loss of $4.6 million, or 3 cents a share, for the quarter ended May 2, compared with a year-earlier loss of $81.2 million, or 57 cents a share. Sales rose 2 percent to $2.9 billion. 
 The company said it took a $73 million charge on hedges. It said cash hog prices were profitable during the period and it would reduce its hedging.
 ''We will live closer to the cash market,'' Smithfield's chief executive, C. Larry Pope, told analysts on a conference call. Excluding the hedging losses and revamping costs, the company posted a quarterly profit of 18 cents a share. Analysts, on average, expected profit of 16 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
 During the call, the company said that it would revamp the hog unit over several years to make it more efficient.
 While few details of the revamping were offered, company officials said it would include eliminating outside contractors for some services.
 Hogs turned profitable this year after losing money for about two years. The losses were attributed first to high feed costs and later to slowing pork sales because of the H1N1 swine flu and the recession.
 Smithfield said it had offered $200 million for Maxwell Farms' 51 percent stake in their joint venture Butterball and related turkey production assets.
 Under the partnership arrangement, Maxwell can accept the offer or buy out Smithfield. Smithfield said it expects a deal by September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); PORK (90%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (78%); FUTURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); INFLUENZA (65%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (58%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (58%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (58%)

PERSON: C LARRY POPE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



497 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Find Shelter In Affluent Districts

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
From the roof of his new home on a quiet block near the Panhandle, Esteban Turecky looked at the view of downtown San Francisco. That's where Mr. Turecky, 67, spent the past 10 years, without a home, sleeping at the Transbay Terminal or at a hotel in the Tenderloin if he could afford it. 
 ''I just try to forget; I don't want to remember the cold and the hunger,'' Mr. Turecky said in a smoker's voice, wearing a black leather biker's cap pulled over his stringy gray hair.
Mr. Turecky now has a studio in Zygmunt Arendt House, a clean yellow and white 47-unit apartment building for homeless older people that celebrated its grand opening this week. It is in the NoPa neighborhood.
 San Francisco's homeless people usually find homes in poorer parts of the city, like the Tenderloin and the Mission. There are 4,745 units in these areas (Districts 6 and 9), according to the city, accounting for 83 percent of San Francisco's ''supportive housing'' -- permanent residences that also offer services.
 These accommodations should be spread around, said Don Falk, executive director of the Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation, which developed Zygmunt Arendt House with Community Housing Partnership. ''Good neighborhoods should not only be reserved for people with means,'' he said. 
 But building in nicer neighborhoods is difficult. Currently, residents of the affluent Marina district are vociferously opposing converting the Edward II Inn and Suites into transitional housing for 18- to 24-year-olds who have left the foster care system.
 ''No one wouldn't support the good work they do with these kids,'' Lori Brooke, president of the Cow Hollow Association, said of the conversion plan. ''This particular project and this particular building have not been thought out, and they haven't taken into consideration the impact both economically and otherwise on the neighborhood.'' 
 In the Marina, District 2, there are just 100 units of housing for the homeless, about 1.75 percent of the city's total. The NoPa area has 7.5 percent, and neighbors there were also skeptical at first. 
 Dariush Kayhan, director of homeless policy in the mayor's office, remembers the ''charged'' meetings when Zygmunt Arendt House was proposed more than five years ago. The building was named for Zygmunt Arendt, a frugal and unassuming German refugee who left $6 million to be used for the poor and needy of San Francisco. 
 Residents voiced ''support for senior housing all the way to concern that we were going to decrease home values and the safety of the neighborhood,'' Mr. Kayhan said.
 Jarie Bolander, president of the North of Panhandle Neighborhood Association, said the initial concerns were allayed when residents realized that the house would be low-key and well-regulated.
 ''So far, they have been good neighbors,'' Mr. Bolander said.
 Mr. Turecky, who worked as a security guard and lived nearby before becoming homeless, said he was ''plain lucky.''
 ''It's safe, quiet. Lucky's is just four blocks away,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITIES (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); FOSTER CARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



498 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE THE PULSE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: U. of Chicago Move Raises Hackles

BYLINE: By JESSICA REAVES

 BODY:
It has been a tough couple of years for the free-market theories hatched in the economics department at the University of Chicago. The department has produced multiple Nobel laureates and influenced governments around the globe, but it also abetted the Wall Street financial experimentation that helped cause the latest recession. 
 The blowback from around the world has been loud. And now it is happening on the university's Hyde Park campus-- in that detached manner so typical of academia.
The latest disapproval was prompted by the announcement, late last month, that the university appointed a Boston architecture firm to renovate the building at 5757 South University Avenue, the current home of the Chicago Theological Seminary. The new occupant will be the Milton Friedman Institute for Research in Economics.
 The institute, named for the university's Nobel Prize-winning conservative economics professor, has raised hackles among some faculty members, 174 of whom signed a petition in early June protesting the political implications of Friedman's free-market theories, as well as the way the administration has handled their concerns about the project.
 In response to the petition, the administration released a six-page rebuttal last week, restating its dedication to a ''free and open environment.''
 Meanwhile, Lars Peter Hansen, director of the institute, issued a sharp rebuke of his peers. ''I can only hope that going forward,'' he wrote, ''faculty who choose to formally challenge research ventures on campus will do so in ways that reflect more seriousness of purpose.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PETITIONS (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); RELIGION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



499 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: House-Senate Committee Agrees to Broader Scope for Audits of Federal Reserve

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House and Senate negotiators agreed Thursday to broaden the scope of a new set of audits of the Federal Reserve by the Government Accountability Office to include transactions involving the Fed's discount window and open market operations. But the Federal Reserve dodged attempts to extend Congressional review over its monetary policy decisions. 
 The Senate had previously approved a provision that would require a government audit of the Federal Reserve's emergency lending authority, a move that arose in response to the Fed's actions in the 2008 financial crisis. But the House-Senate conference committee wanted to go further, subjecting the Fed to regular audits of its routine operations. 
 As negotiators dived into a third day of trying to produce a final version of the financial regulatory overhaul, they fell behind the tight schedule outlined last week by Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, the Democratic leaders who have shepherded the bills through the process. 
 That schedule calls for the completion of the conference by the end of next week, with a bill approved and sent to President Obama for his signature by Independence Day. 
 But on Wednesday and Thursday, debate began to stretch beyond the expected time on several issues, including whether financial advisers should be subject to a fiduciary duty requirement, limits on executive compensation and the ability of shareholders to nominate directors for a company's board, and whether the Securities and Exchange Commission should be self-financed. 
 House members also wrestled Thursday with a subject that has been a sticking point in both houses of Congress during the months of trying to develop a regulatory bill: what agency would have the authority to liquidate a failing financial company, and how money would be provided for the liquidation.
 The House and Senate negotiators did agree to several changes, including the removal of a Senate provision that would have made the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank a political appointee subject to confirmation by the Senate. 
 Instead, the conference committee agreed to leave the appointments of the presidents of each regional Fed bank to their respective boards while excluding the representatives of member banks on those boards from voting on those appointments.
 Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, argued that because the president of the New York Fed was the only permanent member of the Fed's Open Market committee, which sets interest rate policy, he should be subject to Senate confirmation. ''I think someone in this country who can make those kind of decisions that affect us all should be subject to the nomination and confirmation process,'' Mr. Reed said.
 The committee's agreement on regular audits of the Fed would require the disclosure within one year of the names of entities that received emergency credit from the Federal Reserve, as well as the disclosure of the results of the audit of the open market operations and discount window transactions two years after those transactions were entered into.
 ''This provision increases transparency without compromising Federal Reserve independence,'' Mr. Dodd said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AUDITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); BOARD CHANGES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JACK REED (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



500 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: DuPage Struggles to Handle Increased Need for Public Aid

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON and RACHEL CROMIDAS

 BODY:
Not far from million-dollar homes in DuPage County, a line of people spills through the doors of a public aid office in Villa Park, now the busiest branch of the Illinois Department of Human Services.
 As many as 900 county residents come to the office every day looking for food stamps, emergency financial assistance and vouchers for medical care, said Phyllis Baxter, the site's administrator.
The surge in suburban poverty reflects the economic collapse for people who had been solidly middle class, including former homeowners with college degrees. It also underscores the changing demographics in some older commuter cities, now home to more Spanish-speaking immigrants and working-class families fleeing tough city neighborhoods. The state's second-busiest Human Services office is in Blue Island, just south of Chicago in Cook County.
 Requests for help at the DuPage County office have soared by about 60 percent in the past five years, Ms. Baxter said. ''They come through those doors,'' she said, ''and they'll say, 'I lost my job. I need food. I can't pay my medical bills.' '' 
 The state, which is some $13 billion in debt, has been unable to increase the size of the office's 81-member staff, which leaves caseworkers scrambling to manage increasing workloads. ''The stress level is off the charts,'' Ms. Baxter said. ''And, remember, plenty of our people have also got somebody in the family who has lost a job.''
 Hue Tran has worked as a caseworker in DuPage County for 32 years. She said she had never seen anything like the overwhelming demands of the last two years.
 ''I just have to work faster,'' Ms. Tran said. ''The phones are ringing, people are lining up, they're demanding to know why they're not getting benefits.''
 Ms. Tran and other social workers said many suburbanites, who were living comfortably not long ago, were upset that they now had to beg for help.
 ''Sometimes they get angry and then they apologize,'' said Ms. Tran, who said she had counseled many people who had started crying. ''I just tell them: 'I understand. It's not your fault.' ''
 Other caseworkers say they feel guilty that they cannot spend enough time on clients. Ebony Martin, 32, said that four years ago, when she came to the DuPage County office, she had a caseload of about 900. Today she has more than 2,300 cases.
 ''I made a color-coded chart that tells me these are the people that I must -- absolutely must -- get to today,'' Ms. Martin said.
 Kara Murphy, the executive director of Access DuPage, a nonprofit group that helps uninsured people find health care, said enrollment in the program had jumped 55 percent in the last two years, to about 11,600.
 The sharp increase in the need for services has strained the social infrastructure in suburban areas like DuPage County, which for a long time served chiefly as bedroom communities for prosperous commuters and their families. DuPage County, which has nearly one million residents, is the region's second-most-populous county, after Cook. It has the area's highest median household income, more than $73,000, according to a 2007 report by the Heartland Alliance. The unemployment rate has grown to nearly 9 percent in 2010, nearly triple the rate of the early 1990s, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Services for the working poor and the jobless can be scarce in the suburbs. Candace King, executive director of the DuPage Federation on Human Services Reform, said cities provided more programs to address poverty, like health clinics and food pantries. Housing costs tend to be higher in the suburbs, Ms. King said, and it can be difficult to rely on the smaller mass transit system.
 ''It is far better to be poor in Chicago than poor in DuPage,'' she said.
 Human Services officials say the 60 percent growth in caseload in DuPage County in five years has far outpaced the statewide increase of about 20 percent. 
 At a time when the suburbs have an increased need for programs for the poor, Ms. King said the state was so broke it could not afford to offer new services in places like DuPage County. ''We're trying desperately to keep the ones that are here alive,'' she said.
 Ms. King estimated that 15 percent of the county's families earned less than $44,000 but more than the federal poverty level of $22,000. She said it is within that earnings range where aid organizations see families struggle. These people have ''too much to get help, but not enough to get by,'' she said. 
 Despite the dearth of social programs in DuPage County, many poor people have been leaving the city for the suburbs, according to demographers like Kenneth Johnson, a former Loyola University sociologist now at the University of New Hampshire. In many cases, parents of small children say they left Chicago to flee gangs.
 LaTanya Chase, 28, grew up on the South Side of Chicago, but moved to the Austin neighborhood before settling in Glendale Heights four years ago. Ms. Chase, who works 24 to 30 hours a week at a CVS drugstore, learned quickly that she could not depend on suburban mass transit and would need a car.
 But it was still worth moving to the suburbs, she said, because she does not have to worry about her 8-year-old daughter being caught in gang cross-fire while playing in the front yard.
 ''I'm here because I was looking for a better place for a child to grow up,'' said Ms. Chase, who goes to the Villa Park office for food stamps and a health-care voucher. ''It's as simple as that.''
 The growing racial and ethnic diversity in DuPage County are changing the cliches about white havens for the country-club set. Census Bureau figures show particularly strong growth among Hispanics, about 12 percent of the county's population in 2008, up from 9 percent in 2000.
 Officials at the Human Services office in Villa Park say its caseload of people who speak Spanish as a primary language has doubled, to about 15,000, over the past five years. 
 Joshua Drucker, a professor of urban planning at the University of Illinois-Chicago, said the collapse of the home-building industry has hit Hispanics especially hard. Many Hispanic men do drywall and roofing work. Those jobs, Mr. Drucker said, which paid relatively well, have largely evaporated in the last two to three years.
 The collapse of housing jobs sent Graciela Martinez, 37, to the Human Services waiting room with her four young children to receive food stamps. Much of the talking for the family was done by her oldest child, Amel -- ''I'm almost 8'' -- who wore a University of Wisconsin T-shirt and said he wanted to be a doctor.
 Ms. Martinez said her fiance, the father of the children, was a roofer whose work hours had shrunk to almost nothing. It became impossible to pay the rent, she said, so the family moved in with her sister in suburban West Chicago, an old railroad town with perhaps the longest-standing Mexican-American community in DuPage County.
 One recent day at the Human Services office, people stood at the back of the long line on an asphalt parking lot that was baking in the sun. Later, when the skies darkened and the heavens opened, some people pushed inside to keep dry; others simply stood in the rain.
 Ms. Baxter, the administrator, said the sense of despair among the clients could be heartbreaking.
 ''We've got to be able to give them some hope,'' said Ms. Baxter, who sat behind a beige metal desk piled high with case forms. On the bulletin board, she had pinned the phrase, ''Thy will, not mine, be done.'' 
 ''You see a lot of shame and embarrassment,'' she said. ''You see it with people who used to have money and now they're maybe losing everything. And you see the shame in people who have always been dirt poor, too.''
 She said she told caseworkers to give people time to work through their emotions. ''I know we're in a hurry,'' she said, ''but we've got to give them time to talk it out.''
 She shook her head and lifted her eyes.
 ''Because they're hurting,'' she said. ''And they're so scared.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People lined up at the Illinois Department of Human Services in Villa Park this week, seeking food stamps and other assistance.
PHYLLIS BAXTER: Administrator at Department of Human Services in Villa Park (A23A)
 LaTanya Chase moved to the suburbs for her daughter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) (A23B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FAMILY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COUNTIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); FOOD STAMPS (72%)

COMPANY: BAXTER SAS (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



501 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Mineral Wealth

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Identifies Mineral Riches in Afghanistan'' (front page, June 14): 
 Referring to growing Chinese involvement in Afghanistan's mineral exploitation, your article rightly pointed out that ''American officials fear resource-hungry China will try to dominate the development of Afghanistan's mineral wealth.''
 While the American troops are being killed by the Taliban, China is quietly developing the Loghar copper mines. Why is the Afghan government, considered an American puppet by many, allowing a Chinese state-owned company to develop these resources? The answer: With the Chinese economy booming and the United States mired in a prolonged recession, the demand for copper and other minerals is coming from China.
 Moreover, the Chinese market is next door to Afghanistan, while exporting these bulky minerals to the United States will be hugely expensive.
 In the emerging new world order, China seems to be poised to exploit resources in troubled countries like Afghanistan and Iraq, while the United States is reduced to providing the security. Afghanistan might have vast mineral resources, but it will be China, not America, that will reap the benefit.
 Mahmood Elahi Ottawa, June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MINES & MINING (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TALIBAN (73%); COPPER MINING (70%); COPPER INDUSTRY (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



502 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AFGHANISTAN MOVES QUICKLY TO TAP MINERAL RESERVES
 The Ministry of Mines announced it would take the first steps toward opening Afghanistan's reserves to international investors, even as Afghans expressed a mixture of hope and doubt about the government's commitment to develop the country's newly documented mineral wealth. PAGE A4
 MANDELA ATTENDS FUNERAL 
 Nelson Mandela, the 91-year-old hero of South Africa's freedom struggle, attended funeral services for his 13-year-old great-granddaughter, whose recent death in a car accident brought a somber start to the World Cup. PAGE A4 
 OFFICIALS CLEARED IN FIRE
 Mexico's Supreme Court cleared senior officials of wrongdoing in a fire at a day care center that killed 49 children. The children's parents had asked for an investigation by the court after state and federal prosecutors took action only against low-ranking officials. PAGE A8 
 Obituaries
 MAUREEN FORRESTER, 79
 A Canadian contralto with a plummy, deep-set sound who could also sing the broader mezzo-soprano repertory, she was revered for her opulent voice and musical elegance, and especially acclaimed for her performances of Mahler. PAGE B16 
 National
 LOSER IN SOUTH CAROLINA ASKS PARTY TO REVIEW VOTE
 The surprising victory in a South Carolina Democratic primary for Alvin Greene, an unknown 32-year-old without so much as a Web site, can only be explained -- according to Mr. Greene's opponent -- by faulty voting machines. PAGE A20 
 COURT BACKS BEACH PROJECT
 A project to restore beaches in the Florida Panhandle did not violate the Constitution's takings clause, the Supreme Court ruled. The vote was 8 to 0 against property owners who challenged a ruling by the Florida Supreme Court. PAGE A15 
 HEADS IN BOXES SET FOR FLIGHT
 A Southwest Airlines cargo worker opened three suspicious boxes at Little Rock National Airport and found 45 human heads, bound for a medical laboratory in Fort Worth. PAGE A17 
 Ex-Police Officer Denies Abuse A17 
 Deal for Puerto Rican Students A20 
 New York
 CITY TEMPERS PLAN TO SHRINK PRESENCE OF VENDORS IN PARKS
 After listening to the complaints of aggrieved artists, the Bloomberg administration has backed down somewhat from a plan to cut the number of art vendors in city parks, but it still plans to cut their ranks by more than half. PAGE A21
 Business
 SECURITY TOPS ENVIRONMENT IN CHINA'S ENERGY PLAN
 The Chinese government is drafting legislation that calls for more renewable energy and energy conservation. But global warming is not China's chief concern. Security issues are the biggest catalyst for the legislation, which is why the plan preserves a large role for coal. PAGE B1
 ESTONIA IN EUROPEAN UNION
 Meeting in Brussels, the European Union's 27 governments hailed the ''sound economic and financial policies'' that had been achieved by Estonia as they welcomed the country into the bloc. PAGE B1 
 F.C.C. VOTES ON BROADBAND
 The Federal Communications Commission voted 3 to 2 to move toward regulating the transmission component of broadband Internet service, a power the commission's majority believes is central to expanding broadband use. PAGE B2 
 Scope Widened for Audits of Fed B2 
 Sports
 IN WORLD CUP, ARGENTINA ROLLS OVER SOUTH KOREA
 Argentina received three goals from forward Gonzalo Higuain and defeated South Korea, 4-1, all but advancing to the second round. The opposing coaches renewed hostilities from when they met as players in 1986. PAGE B9
 Weekend
 A BOY GOES OFF TO COLLEGE, WHAT ARE HIS TOYS TO DO?
 Woody, Buzz Lightyear and the cast from the first two ''Toy Story'' films are joined by new playthings as their owner goes to college. A review by A. O. Scott. PAGE C1
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); MINES & MINING (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); RANKINGS (68%); AIRPORTS (67%); AIRLINES (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (66%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (65%); BEACHES (64%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (63%); PROPERTY LAW (63%); AIR FREIGHT (62%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (64%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ESTONIA (79%); BELGIUM (67%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



503 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Moves Quickly to Tap Newfound Mineral Reserves

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and MUJIB MASHAL; Abdul Waheed Wafa contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- The Ministry of Mines announced Thursday that it would take the first steps toward opening the country's reserves to international investors at a meeting next week in London even as Afghans expressed a mixture of hope and doubt about the government's commitment to develop the country's newly documented mineral wealth. 
 The focus of the meeting will be the Hajigak area of Bamian Province, which has major iron ore deposits, the Mines Minister, Wahidullah Shahrani, said at a news conference here. 
 It was Mr. Shahrani's first public appearance since news that the country had at least $1 trillion in untapped mineral resources became public after an article appeared Monday in The New York Times that detailed findings of the Pentagon and United States Geological Survey. Afghan officials described the $1 trillion estimate conservative and said their estimates suggested the reserves could be worth as much as $3 trillion. 
 ''This good news has the potential of adding a lot of value to the economy of Afghanistan and it will serve the development of Afghanistan,'' Mr. Shahrani said. 
 The previously unknown deposits include huge veins of iron, copper, cobalt, gold and critical industrial metals like lithium. With so many minerals that are essential to modern industry, Afghanistan could be transformed into one of the most important mining centers in the world, according to American officials.
 Two hundred mining investors from around the world have been invited to next week's meeting in London where they will offer suggestions for how to develop the iron ore deposits at Hajigak, said Craig Andrews, the principal mining specialist for Afghanistan for the World Bank. 
 Then, the ministry will develop a tender offer for that area. For instance, it is possible that the government would require that the bidder develop both a steel plant and the iron ore mine since there are also nearly deposits of coal, Mr. Andrews said. By September, the government hopes to be able to solicit expressions of interest from mining companies and perhaps by December narrow the number to five or six companies who have the capacity to undertake such a large the project. 
 Non-governmental western mining experts will be helping the ministry develop the bidding process, said Mr. Andrews. Mr. Shahrani pledged to make the bidding and contracting of mining rights as transparent as possible in order to reduce the possibility of corruption. He said the ministry would post contracts on its Web site and would try to brief reporters, and by extension the public. Copies of the contracts would be made available to members of Parliament and to members of civil society. 
 Mr. Shahrani and his advisers cautioned against overly high expectations, underscoring that development takes years and that there are many obstacles to overcome not least of all the lack of security in some of the areas with the most minerals and the lack of a transportation infrastructure. 
 In Kabul, students and shopkeepers alike said they thought the government had the capability to develop mines eventually, but not without help from foreigners. 
 ''The current government does not have the ability to launch such big projects -- neither administratively, nor in terms of security,'' said Ghulam Hazrat, a shopkeeper who sells spare parts for cars. 
 Mr. Hazrat held up his right index finger, which was disfigured when he fought the Russians in the 1980s; he pointed to two scars on his leg and one on his chest from the early 1990s when warlords were fighting each other to control the country. 
 ''Thousands have made sacrifices like me in their lifetime. But I am sure I won't see any benefits from such mines in my life and neither will you in yours. Whether my children will , I don't know.'' 
 An adviser to the minister, Abdul Rahman Ashraf, struck a similar note when asked by a young reporter at the news conference whether his generation would see the benefit of the mineral reserves. ''Your generation should not think that this $3 trillion is an amount you can spend, but, your children, your grandchildren, your great-grandchildren will have the right for this reserves,'' he said. 
 ''We need to learn how to use it.''
 Faisal Farooqi, a first-year student at Kabul University, studying law and political science, was more optimistic and he said he saw the reserves and the international attention to them as something the country needs to take advantage of.
 ''It is time we show the will,'' to take advantage of such wealth, he said. ''It is an opportunity for us to get out of this misery and we should grab it with both hands -- even if our hands are shaky.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (90%); IRON MINING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (87%); COAL MINING (78%); MINERAL LEASES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TENDER OFFERS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); CORRUPTION (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



504 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Press Tighter Sanctions on Iran

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and STEPHEN CASTLE; Mark Landler reported from Washington, and Stephen Castle from Brussels. Reporting was contributed by David E. Sanger and Yeganeh June Torbati from Washington, William Yong from Tehran, and Alan Cowell from Paris.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A day after the Obama administration imposed sanctions on more than a dozen Iranian companies and individuals with links to the country's nuclear and missile programs, the European Union followed suit on Thursday with what it called ''inevitable'' new measures against Tehran.
 Meeting in Brussels, European Union leaders indicated that the sanctions would go beyond those mandated by the United Nations Security Council last week. Like the American measures announced on Wednesday, the European moves seemed designed to build on the momentum of the Iran resolution at the United Nations. 
 The specific details of the measures could be agreed as early as next month at a meeting of European foreign ministers in Brussels. 
 In s statement, the European leaders said measures should focus on trade, including goods that can be used for civilian and military purposes ''and further restrictions on trade insurance.''
 They would also cover a freeze of additional Iranian banks and restrictions on banking and insurance, as well as the Iranian transport sector, in particular Iran's state shipping line, its subsidiaries and air cargo.
 The European measures, the statement said, foresaw sanctions on ''key sectors of the gas and oil industry with prohibition of new investment, technical assistance and transfers of technologies'' and related equipment and services. In addition there will be ''new visa bans and freezes especially on the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.''''
 The European Council deeply regrets that Iran has not taken the many opportunities which have been offered to it to remove the concerns of the international community over the nature of the Iranian nuclear program,'' the European leaders said. ''Under these circumstances, new restrictive measures have become inevitable.''
 The American list, announced on Wednesday, included two top commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, which has control over Iran's nuclear program and is expanding its grip on the nation's economy. 
 It also included a major Iranian bank and five front companies for the Iranian state shipping line, as well as 71 ships with names that had been changed to skirt previous sanctions. 
 ''Iran will never cease looking for ways to evade our sanctions,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in announcing the measures at the White House. ''So our effort must be ongoing and unrelenting. And we will keep working on ways to intensify financial pressure on Iran.'' 
 Congress is also drafting legislation that would go much further than the United Nations sanctions. 
 But the Treasury Department's sanctions lay bare the loopholes that continue to plague efforts to isolate Iran commercially: many of the companies on the list acted as fronts for entities already the subject of previous sanctions. Others have ties to entities that were already sanctioned. 
 Moreover, a senior administration official acknowledged that the United States would have had the authority to designate all these companies on its own without the passage of the latest United Nations resolution. The sanctions require that the companies' assets under American jurisdiction be frozen. 
 The administration's move came hours after a defiant speech by Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who said the West deserved to be punished for its action against Tehran and laid out ambitious plans to increase uranium enrichment and build four new atomic research facilities. 
 Iran justified the need to expand enrichment to supply fuel for a research reactor that produces radioactive isotopes. It plans to build the research complexes in four corners of the country and said that one of them would be ''more powerful'' than the American-built research reactor in Tehran, which has been the subject of intense negotiations among Iran, Western nations, Brazil and Turkey. 
 ''You showed bad temper, reneged on your promise, and again resorted to devilish manners,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said, addressing the countries that voted to pass the resolution in the United Nations Security Council. 
 ''You have behaved badly,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said, ''but we have terms which will punish you and make you sit at the negotiating table like a polite child.'' 
 He also said in the speech, which was broadcast live on state television, that Iran would announce new conditions for talks, suggesting that he was open to dialogue in the wake of the Security Council vote. 
 The administration met these mixed signals with sanctions that aimed to show how Iran used its banks and shipping industry to aid its nuclear program. 
 The United States designated Post Bank of Iran, which American officials said handled foreign transactions for Bank Sepah after it was penalized in 2007 for providing financing to Iran's missile industry. 
 Also named were five companies -- two based in Hong Kong -- that are affiliated with, or owned by, the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines. Iran has evaded previous sanctions by renaming, repainting and reflagging its ships. 
 It also has changed the ownership of the vessels, officials said. 
 The administration kept its focus on the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, designating the corps' air force and missile command, which it says have links to Iran's ballistic missile program. And it named two top commanders: Mohammad Ali Jafari, the commander in chief of the corps since late 2007, and Mohammad Reza Naqdi, who has served as head of the Basij Resistance Force since October 2009 and was notorious earlier for suppressing protests at Iranian universities. 
 Basij paramilitaries led the government's bloody crackdown on antigovernment protests after the disputed presidential election last June, though that is not the main reason that Mr. Naqdi was sanctioned. 
 As a former deputy chief of staff of the armed forces general staff, he was involved in efforts to evade previous sanctions, according to the United Nations. 
 The Treasury Department also identified 22 companies in the Iranian insurance, petroleum and petrochemical industries that it said were owned by the Iranian government. 
 American citizens are barred from doing business with such companies; the designations are also devised as a warning to foreign companies with business dealings in Iran, officials said. 
 Some critics said the sanctions, particularly those against well-established figures like Mr. Jafari, showed how hard it was for the United States to keep up with the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. The Revolutionary Guards ''is morphing, and expanding, and drifting into every part of the Iranian private sector every day,'' said Danielle Pletka, a vice president and an expert on Iran at the American Enterprise Institute. ''We have a handful of people in Treasury who do this, and we're not keeping up.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RELIGION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



505 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (ABC) MILEY CYRUS IN LONDON: LIVE AT THE O2 My, how she's grown. Following on the heels of the furor caused by her music video ''Can't Be Tamed'' -- Fetish gear! Suggestive dance moves! Hints of Lady Gaga! -- this network television special, Ms. Cyrus's first, is said to reveal what ABC called in a news release ''her natural progression and sophistication.'' Filmed during her recent Wonder World tour, the 17-year-old Ms. Cyrus, above, performs ''7 Things,'' ''Party in the U.S.A.'' and ''The Climb'' and promotes her new, more adult CD, ''Can't Be Tamed,'' which will be released on Tuesday. She will talk about the performance on ''Good Morning America,'' at 7 a.m., and ''Live With Regis and Kelly,'' at 9 a.m.
 6 A.M. (Fox News Channel) FOX & FRIENDS Toby Keith croons his song ''Trailerhood'' and discusses the Gulf of Mexico oil cleanup as part of the show's ''All American Concert Series.'' 
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAYJames Taylor and Carole King, who played Madison Square Garden on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, perform.
 7 P.M. (HBO) MASTERCLASSMichael Tilson Thomas, artistic director of the New World Symphony, helps three musicians hone their technique and interpretive skills as part of the YoungArts program, which provides mentors to emerging artists in high school.
 8 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) suspects that his new quarterback, Vince (Michael B. Jordan), has brought a gun to school. Tami (Connie Britton) lets loose at a faculty party. Meanwhile Julie (Aimee Teegarden) and Landry (Jesse Plemons) try to put the past behind them.
 8:30 P.M. (13, 49) NEED TO KNOW The newsmagazine visits with residents of Grand Isle, La., who are facing economic ruin from the oil disaster and a complicated legal path to getting reimbursement from BP. Dr. Emily Senay discusses the toll of the crisis on human health, and the cartoonist Steve Brodner provides a visual interpretation. Other segments look at investing in gold and the life of K'Naan, a Somali-Canadian hip-hop performer whose ''Wavin' Flag'' was chosen as the theme song for this year's World Cup in South Africa.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) DISCOVERY SAVED MY LIFE In honor of the channel's 25th anniversary, this program profiles six people who survived potentially fatal situations thanks to life-saving tips from Discovery shows.
 9 P.M. (CBS) FLASHPOINT The unit scurries to rescue cult members whose leader plans to kill his followers by the end of the day.
 9 P.M. (BBC America) GAVIN & STACEY Smithy (James Corden) wishes Nessa (Ruth Jones) a lifetime of happiness as she heads to the church to marry Dave (Steffan Rhodri) in this Season 3 finale. Elsewhere Stacey (Joanna Page) breaks some big news to Gavin (Mathew Horne). In ''Not Going Out,'' at 9:40, Lee (Lee Mack) offers to help Lucy (Sally Bretton) write an important speech, but Tim (Tim Vine) thinks he's better suited to the task. And Katherine Heigl, Sean Combs and the Scottish comedian Frankie Boyle are guests on ''Friday Night With Jonathan Ross,'' at 10:20.
 9 P.M. (Animal Planet) WHALE WARS After being followed by a whaling reconnaissance vessel for two weeks, Sea Shepherd crew members spray foul-smelling butyric acid at their pursuers.
 10 P.M. (CMT) CMT CROSSROADS: JOHN MAYER AND KEITH URBAN As the first musicians to return to this concert series taped in Nashville, the singers collaborate on each other's hits, including Mr. Urban's '''Til Summer Comes Around'' and ''Sweet Thing'' and Mr. Mayer's ''Perfectly Lonely'' and ''Gravity.''
 10 P.M. (TLC) BATTLE OF THE WEDDING DESIGNERS Armed with a budget and a few personal details, three event planners conjure up visions of a couple's dream nuptials, from reception site to menu, with the lovebirds choosing their favorite. In this series premiere Jeff and Maria request a large family affair that reflects their Greek and Italian backgrounds.
 10 P.M. (Starz) PARTY DOWN Casey (Lizzy Caplan) and Henry (Adam Scott) are the target of finger wagging when they cater a draft-day party for a star college quarterback who ends up not being selected. In ''Gravity,'' at 10:30, Carla (Robyn Cohen) spends the second anniversary of her attempted suicide with her husband and the group. Robert (Ivan Sergei) and Lily (Krysten Ritter) make a commitment.
 10 P.M. (IFC) THE WHITEST KIDS U'KNOW The comedy troupe performs sketches including ''You Talkin' to Me,'' ''Dr. Kyle,'' ''Barney the Bear,'' ''Senator Clint Webb'' and ''Changing Channels.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); MUSIC (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (90%); LADY GAGA (57%); TOBY KEITH (57%); REGIS PHILBIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010



506 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1488 words

PERSON: Jose Saramago 

HEADLINE: Jose Saramago, Nobel Prize-Winning Portuguese Writer, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By FERNANDA EBERSTADT

 BODY:
Jose Saramago, the Portuguese writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1998 with novels that combine surrealist experimentation with a kind of sardonic peasant pragmatism, died on Friday at his home in Lanzarote in the Canary Islands. He was 87.
The cause was multiple organ failure after a long illness, the Jose Saramago Foundation said in an announcement on its Web site, josesaramago.org.
A tall, commandingly austere man with a dry, schoolmasterly manner, Mr. Saramago gained international acclaim for novels like ''Baltasar and Blimunda'' and ''Blindness.'' (A film adaptation of ''Blindness'' by the Brazilian director Fernando Meirelles was released in 2008.)
He was the first Portuguese-language writer to win the Nobel Prize, and more than two million copies of his books have been sold, his longtime friend and editor, Zeferino Coelho, said. 
A novel by Mr. Saramago, ''The Elephant's Journey,'' is to be published posthumously in English on Sept. 8 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
Mr. Saramago was known almost as much for his unfaltering Communism as for his fiction. In later years he used his stature as a Nobel laureate to deliver lectures at international congresses around the world, accompanied by his wife, the Spanish journalist Pilar del Rio. He described globalization as the new totalitarianism and lamented contemporary democracy's failure to stem the increasing powers of multinational corporations.
To many Americans, Mr. Saramago's name is associated with a statement he made while touring the West Bank in 2002, when he compared Israel's treatment of Palestinians to the Holocaust.
As a professional novelist, Mr. Saramago was a late bloomer. A first novel, published when he was 23, was followed by 30 years of silence. He became a full-time writer only in his late 50s, after working variously as a garage mechanic, a welfare agency bureaucrat, a printing production manager, a proofreader, a translator and a newspaper columnist.
In 1975, a countercoup overthrew Portugal's Communist-led revolution of the previous year, and Mr. Saramago was fired as deputy editor of the Lisbon newspaper Diario de Noticias. Overnight, along with other prominent leftists, he became virtually unemployable.
''Being fired was the best luck of my life,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times Magazine in 2007. ''It made me stop and reflect. It was the birth of my life as a writer.''
His first major success was the rollicking love story ''Baltasar and Blimunda.'' Set in 18th-century Portugal, it portrays the misadventures of three eccentrics threatened by the Inquisition: a heretic priest who constructs a flying machine and the two lovers who help him -- Baltasar, a one-handed ex-soldier, and Blimunda, a sorceress's daughter who has X-ray vision.
At one point the couple decides to take refuge for the night in a hayloft. ''There is no more satisfying smell than that of turned hay,'' Mr. Saramago writes, ''of bodies under a blanket, of oxen feeding at the trough, the scent of cold air filtering through the chinks in the hayloft, and perhaps the scent of the moon, for everyone knows that the night assumes a different smell when there is moonlight, and even a blind man, who is incapable of distinguishing night from day, will say, The moon is shining, St. Lucy is believed to have worked this miracle, so it is really only a question of inhaling, Yes, my friends, what a splendid moon this evening.''
The novel, published in an English translation in 1987, won Mr. Saramago a passionate international following. The critic Irving Howe, praising its union of ''harsh realism'' and ''lyric fantasy,'' described Mr. Saramago as ''a voice of European skepticism, a connoisseur of ironies.''
''I think I hear in his prose echoes of Enlightenment sensibility, caustic and shrewd,'' Mr. Howe wrote.
Asked by The New York Times in 2008 to assess Mr. Saramago's achievement, the critic James Wood wrote: ''Jose Saramago was both an avant-gardist and a traditionalist. His long blocks of unbroken prose, lacking conventional markers like paragraph breaks and quotation marks, could look forbidding and modernist; but his frequent habit of handing over the narration in his novels to a kind of 'village chorus' and what seem like peasant simplicities allowed Saramago great flexibility.''
On the one hand, Mr. Wood wrote, it allowed the writer to ''revel in sheer storytelling,'' and on the other to ''undermine, ironically, the very 'truths' and simplicities his apparently unsophisticated narrators traded in.''
Paradox was Mr. Saramago's stock in trade. A militant atheist who maintained that human history would have been a lot more peaceful if it weren't for religion, his novels are still preoccupied with the question of God.
His novel ''The Gospel According to Jesus Christ,'' in which Jesus on the cross apologizes to mankind for God's sins, was deemed blasphemous by some believers and deeply religious by others. When the Portuguese government, under pressure from the Roman Catholic Church, blocked its entry for a European Literary Prize in 1992, Mr. Saramago chose to go into exile in the Canary Islands, a Spanish possession.
Mr. Saramago's hardscrabble origins did not seem to predestine him for a life of letters. Born in 1922 in the village of Azinhaga, 60 miles northeast of Lisbon, he was largely raised by his maternal grandparents while his parents sought work in the big city.
In his Nobel acceptance speech, Mr. Saramago spoke admiringly of these grandparents, illiterate peasants who, in the winter, slept in the same bed as their piglets yet who imparted to him a taste for fantasy and folklore as well as a respect for nature.
One of Mr. Saramago's last books, and one of his most touching, was a childhood memoir titled ''Small Memories.'' In it, he recounts the trauma of being transplanted from his grandparents' rural shack to Lisbon, where his father had joined the police force. Several months later, Francisco, his older brother and only sibling, died of pneumonia.
Mr. Saramago loved to tell a story of how he came by his surname. His real family name was de Sousa. But when, as a 7-year-old boy, he showed up for his first day of school and presented his birth certificate, it was discovered that the clerk in his home village had registered him as Jose Saramago. ''Saramago,'' which means ''wild radish,'' a green that country people were obliged to eat in hard times, was the insulting nickname by which the novelist's father was known.
''My father wasn't very happy, but if that was his son's official name, well, then he too had to take it,'' he recounted in the 2007 interview. The family remained so poor, Mr. Saramago recalled in his memoir, that every spring his mother pawned their blankets, hoping that she might be able to redeem them by the following winter.
Though he was a good student, his family's financial straits compelled Mr. Saramago to drop out of grammar school at 12 and switch to a vocational school, where he was trained as a car mechanic.
The most oppressive influence on him, however, was one he rarely wrote about: the fascist regime that ruled Portugal from 1926 to 1974. ''The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis,'' regarded as his masterpiece, is his only novel to deal directly with the dictatorship of Antonio de Oliveira Salazar.
Set in 1936 in a Europe darkened by the ascendancy of Hitler, Mussolini, Franco and Salazar, the book tells the story of the title character, a doctor and poet living in Brazil who returns to fascist Lisbon when he hears of the death of his friend Fernando Pessoa, Portugal's great modernist poet.
What gives the book its dreamlike blend of historical reality and illusion is the fact that Ricardo Reis was actually one of the aliases Fernando Pessoa used to publish much of his verse. The novel, consisting of increasingly macabre encounters between the ghost of Pessoa and his fictional alter ego is a delicate meditation on identity and nothingness, poetry and power.
In his later years, Mr. Saramago's fiction became more starkly allegorical. In novels like ''Blindness,'' in which an entire city is struck by a plague of sightlessness that reduces most of its citizens to barbarism, readers have found a powerful parable about the fragility of human civilization.
Mr. Saramago's first marriage, to Ilda Reis, whom he wed in 1944, ended in divorce in 1970. Besides his wife, Ms. del Rio, whom he married in 1988, he is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Violante Saramago Matos; and two grandchildren.
''Saramago for the last 25 years stood his own with any novelist of the Western world,'' the critic Harold Bloom said in an interview for this obituary in 2008. ''He was the equal of Philip Roth, Gunther Grass, Thomas Pynchon and Don DeLillo. His genius was remarkably versatile -- he was at once a great comic and a writer of shocking earnestness and grim poignancy. It is hard to believe he will not survive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jose Saramago with his Nobel medal after receiving it in 1998. (POOL PHOTO BY TONI SICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (93%); NOBEL PRIZES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); DISMISSALS (60%); WEB SITES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTUGAL (94%); CANARY ISLANDS (90%); SPAIN (88%); UNITED STATES (78%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (73%); ISRAEL (73%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



507 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: One Eye on World Cup, Wall Street Quietly Rises

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
A lot of numbers are shouted out on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during a typical trading day, and on Friday, soccer scores were among them.
 ''Algeria, zero!'' said one trader to another just after the market closed. 
 That was the final score in Algeria's 0-0 tie with England in their World Cup match in South Africa. 
 A quiet day on the United States stock market on Friday meant that a new running tally could join the usual banter about share prices, as some traders and investors kept an eye on World Cup matches streaming live on television or rolling out in scores over the Internet. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 16.47 points, or 0.16 percent, to 10,450.64. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.47 points, or 0.13 percent, at 1,117.51, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 2.64 points, or 0.11 percent, at 2,309.80. The indexes ended the week more than 2 percent higher.
 August gold rose to $1,258.30, an all-time high, and mining companies rallied. But trading volumes were light, an analyst said. Barrick Gold rose $1.56, to $46.38.
 ''I think attention to the World Cup has reduced trading,'' said James Steel a commodities analyst for HSBC, referring to precious metals. ''Europe and parts of Asia and large gold trading centers are also centers of football interest. We are expecting lower trading volumes because of the World Cup. That also makes the market thinner and can make the market move.''
 Mr. Steel said the market was affected by announcements that the European Union would make public the results of bank stress tests; by reports that governments in Europe should be expected to help troubled banks; and by continuing tension between the United States and China over the Chinese currency before the G-20 meeting next week.
 ''That is raising a certain geopolitical tension which I think is translating into higher gold prices,'' Mr. Steel said. 
 Lingering global currency and debt uncertainties also created potential for volatility.
 ''People are skittish, it is just as simple as that,'' said Stuart A. Schweitzer, global markets strategist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank.
 But the World Cup and the fact that it was a Friday afternoon in late spring may have kept the market flat.
 ''It's a quadruple witching day,'' said Mr. Schweitzer, using the idiom for when four types of options and futures contracts expire on one day, ''and a very calm one.''
 The market is about to round a corner as the second quarter ends, with the anticipation of a fresh batch of corporate earnings reports and outlooks to provide some suggestion about how the economic recovery is progressing.
 Economic indicators have shown a mixed picture recently, including soft labor, weak housing and an improving industrial sector. No economic indicators were announced to influence trading on Friday. 
 Howard Silverblatt, a senior index analyst with Standard & Poor's, compared the interest in the soccer matches to Canada's fixation on the hockey games during the Olympics. 
 ''They help the local economy a lot,'' Mr. Silverblatt said. ''It draws people into spending, gets them in a good mood and gets them out. On the short-term basis the bars are full. Longer term, the question whether they have spent well or not is totally open.''
 Getting into the spirit of the World Cup, S.& P. this month released its ''Equities World Cup,'' rating the teams' countries according to their 2010 equity performance through May. The winner: Ghana. Its equity performance rose 50.73 percent, S.& P. said.
 In the United States market on Friday, energy and financial stocks were higher, while the health care and telecommunications sectors drifted lower. 
 Walgreen and CVS Caremark announced an agreement that meant Walgreen would continue to participate in a national retail network for pharmacy benefits. CVS shares rose 59 cents to $32.43, while Walgreens closed at $30.09, up 82 cents.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 9/32, to 102 11/32. The yield rose to 3.22 percent, from 3.19 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FUTURES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SOCCER (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); STREAMING MEDIA (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); BANK FAILURES (62%); MINES & MINING (51%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



508 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Illegal to Lie About Pay?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
When the DailyWorth retracted its recent post about a woman who had inflated her current salary during a job interview, the site's editor wrote that a number of human resources personnel had said that ''even slight salary history inflations are illegal and could jeopardize your job application.''
 The illegal part struck us -- and a number of readers -- as surprising. So I decided to investigate. I spoke with several employment lawyers around the country, and here's what I found.The lawyers I talked to weren't aware of any federal laws that specifically stated that lying about your salary when applying for a private-sector job is illegal. They also generally said the issue would probably come under state law jurisdiction but they weren't aware of any state laws making it a crime either. 
 While inflating your salary may not be a criminal offense that can land you in jail (assuming you don't inflate your salary under oath or under penalty of perjury), it still can be a civil law issue. Specifically, according to Della Barnett, a plaintiffs' employment attorney in California, ''Affirmative misrepresentation of a material fact can be construed as fraud'' and your potential future employer could sue you for it.
 As for whether your employer would actually sue you for fraud and win the case, Ms. Barnett said the employer would have to prove that he or she ''relied on the misrepresentation (i.e., set your salary based on the misrepresentation and/or wouldn't have hired you otherwise), that it was material (i.e., caused him to give you the job at a higher salary than he otherwise would have), and caused him damage (i.e., caused him to pay you more than he would have had to pay to fill the position with you or someone else).'' Ms. Barnett said, though, ''This would be a tough case to prove.''
 In practice, Jonathan Ben-Asher, an attorney in New York and co-chairman of the American Bar Association's Employment Rights and Responsibilities Committee of the Labor and Employment Section, said an employer would generally only go through this effort if the situation involved a highly paid employee hired for a prominent position in the company on a fraudulent basis and the company incurred damages. But in most cases, he said, ''these kinds of disputes aren't resolved legally.'' For most people, he said, ''the likelihood that a private-sector employer would find out about a resume salary inflation and then sue you for fraud is highly unlikely.''
 Still, this doesn't mean that you have nothing to worry about if you lie about your salary. If you are ever wrongfully terminated or discriminated against by your new employer and you sue, the employer is likely to double-check everything in your original job application and use any lies it finds -- including salary misstatements -- to try to prove it wouldn't have hired you in the first place, or paid you your salary, if it had known about the lie, according to Shannon Liss-Riordan, an employment law attorney in Boston. If an employer can prove this, even if your accusations are true, you may get a lower amount of damages than you otherwise would.
 And if you need an even bigger deterrent not to lie, the lawyers I spoke with said it's often perfectly legal and somewhat common, depending on the state, for employers to double-check facts like compensation with former employers, especially if you signed a form allowing this. So if your potential employer finds out you lied, you're probably not going to be hired and you may even be fired down the road for it.
 As for what the lawyers recommended to say instead, Ms. Barnett said she recommended filling in the blank spot in the application with the words ''to be discussed'' and ''then doing some bluffing, talking in terms of 'expected salary range' etc. during the in-person interview.'' She also passed along this article questioning when it's legal to lie in negotiations. Her salary negotiation advice was similar to that given in this Bucks post: Get the employer to make the first salary offer.
 Legal experts out there, please share your thoughts below on the legality of inflating pay during a job interview and on any state laws or other points we may have missed.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK & CO INC (63%)

TICKER: NWY (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (63%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (63%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (63%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



509 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: School Says Candidate Overstated His Role

BYLINE: By EMMA GRAVES FITZSIMMONS and JEFF ZELENY; Emma Graves Fitzsimmons reported from Chicago, and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- A leader of the church in upstate New York where Representative Mark S. Kirk of Illinois claims he worked as a nursery school teacher said on Friday that he had overstated his role there.
 The leader, Sally Grubb, a member of the administrative council at Forest Home Chapel, a Methodist church in Ithaca, N.Y., said Mr. Kirk had a limited role while working part-time in a work-study program while he was a student at Cornell University nearly three decades ago.
 ''He was never, ever considered a teacher,'' Ms. Grubb said in a telephone interview after researching the history of Mr. Kirk's association with the nursery school. ''He was just an additional pair of hands to help a primary teaching person.'' 
 The church has been trying to determine whether Mr. Kirk worked there after The New York Times reported on Thursday about the brevity of Mr. Kirk's teaching experience. Mr. Kirk, a five-term congressman, is the Republican nominee in Illinois for the Senate seat formerly held by President Obama.
 Eight longtime members of the church, including two former pastors, said this week that they did not recall having a male nursery school teacher in 1981, when Mr. Kirk said he had worked there.
 ''I don't remember any men who worked there,'' said Thomas V. Wolfe, a pastor at the church in 1981, who is now the dean of student affairs at Syracuse University. ''It was a team of women. I used to go over every morning and have coffee with them.''
 Robert A. Hill, who also served as pastor of the church in 1981 and now is dean of Marsh Chapel at Boston University, also said that he could not remember Mr. Kirk. He added, ''You're going back 30 years, so my memory is not perfectly clear, but most of the teachers were women.''
 Mr. Kirk's background has come under fresh examination after his apology this month for errors and discrepancies about his military record. A review of public comments by Mr. Kirk over the last decade shows that he has often referred to himself in speeches, campaign commercials and interviews as a former nursery, middle and high school teacher. He taught for a year in London at a private school, after getting his master's degree at the London School of Economics.
 Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kirk's Senate campaign, did not respond on Friday to the comments from church officials. In a statement earlier in the week, she said Mr. Kirk had worked ''as a nursery school teacher'' in his final year at Cornell. Campaign officials began an inquiry into the scope of Mr. Kirk's work after receiving questions from The Times.
 ''Congressman Kirk believes his time working in a nursery school and middle school provided valuable life experience,'' Ms. Kukowski said Friday in a statement.
 The Kirk campaign has scrambled this week to try to confirm details of his time as a nursery school teacher, which he raised as recently as March in a speech to the Illinois Education Association. ''As a former nursery school and middle school teacher,'' he said then, ''I know some of what it takes to bring order to class.''
 In an interview Friday, Ms. Grubb said that she had told a representative of the Kirk campaign of her concerns when the campaign contacted her on Thursday to try to verify Mr. Kirk's time at the nursery. She said she had spoken to the teacher who led what was then a play group that met in the church basement. The teacher had a ''vague recollection'' of having him as a work-study student, Ms. Grubb said, but she did not remember his name. She added that Mr. Kirk did not have major responsibilities at the play group, like creating lesson plans, and he was assistant who played with the children.
 The campaign of the Democratic Senate nominee in Illinois, Alexi Giannoulias, first raised questions with The Times about Mr. Kirk's classroom experience. Mr. Giannoulias has also faced questions about his background and his ties to the federal seizure of his family's bank in Chicago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, a candidate for the Senate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: MARK STEVEN KIRK (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



510 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Credit Unions Are Beckoning With Open Arms

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Everyone can join a credit union, but not everyone can join any credit union. 
 This turns out to be a source of much confusion for consumers looking for a better checking account, a more generous credit card or a cheaper auto or home loan. By their very name, credit unions suggest exclusivity. After all, unions are something you have to join, and it isn't always clear from walking by a credit union or running across one on the Web whether everyone is welcome.
 But over the years, some of the biggest credit unions with some of the best deals have quietly opened up membership to everybody. This infuriates bankers, who must compete with them while also paying income taxes that the nonprofit credit unions do not owe. Consumers, however, ought to rejoice and take a closer look at some of the more aggressive credit unions, since there may be big savings for the taking once you realize you are eligible. 
 Bankers' irritation is rooted in part in history and their contention that many of today's credit unions barely resemble the institutions of old. 
 Credit unions got that tax break early on, when they formed to serve customers the banks wouldn't touch (the ''small people'' in BP speak). 
 Today, credit unions often (but not always) offer lower interest rates on credit cards and better deals on auto and other loans than most banks, though online banks often (but not always) offer checking accounts that earn more interest and charge fewer fees than many credit unions do.
 Eligibility for credit union membership has evolved , though in every case members are supposed to have what is known as a ''common bond.'' 
 One way to become a member is through occupational classification, where credit union members work for the same employer or perform the same job. The second is a community credit union, where members must live in the same ''well-defined'' region. 
 Things get murky with the third type, what is known as the ''multiple common bond'' credit union, which can pull in many different groups of eligible members as long as they are within reasonable proximity of the credit union. In the early 1980s, members of associations were allowed to join credit unions as part of an effort to include populations the banks were not reaching. ''The idea was to get credit union service to people who wanted it from people who wanted to give it to them,'' said Wendell A. Sebastian, who worked for the federal credit union industry regulatory body at the time. 
 In practice, this ended up opening credit union membership to anyone in the United States. About 10 years ago, the Pentagon Federal Credit Union approached the National Military Family Association and offered to let its members join the credit union. What PenFed really got out of the deal, however, was the ability to say on its Web site that if prospective members didn't meet other eligibility requirements (like working for the Defense Department), they could join the military family association for $20 and become eligible that way. 
 In the years since, membership in the association has risen to 45,000, from under 10,000. How many of them joined just to slip through the side door into the credit union? ''Probably most of them,'' said Joyce Raezer, the association's executive director. ''It was a win-win for both of us, and it's enabled us to do a lot more for military families.'' The new members won, too, because they got access to products like PenFed's excellent Visa Platinum Cashback Rewards credit card. 
 This is perfectly legal, though members' common bond may only be a shared lust for credit card rebates. 
 What representatives of the American Bankers Association find particularly objectionable, though, are the big credit unions that have their own associations for what appears to be the express purpose of signing up people and then making them eligible for credit union membership.
 Take USA Fed in San Diego, for instance, which adopted that name in 2008 to show, according to its Web site, that ''membership is easy and anyone can join.'' People who don't meet the normal eligibility requirements can join something called the Prime Meridian Association. 
 The association offers financial seminars and discounts to members, and just so happens to be based at USA Fed's headquarters. ''It appears that all they've done is create a phantom association for the purpose of allowing people to join their credit union,'' said Keith Leggett, vice president and senior economist at the American Bankers Association. 
 Mary Cunningham, president and chief executive of USA Fed, said Prime Meridian was a legitimate nonprofit organization and noted that with under 700 members it hardly contributed the bulk of USA Fed's new members each year. ''It's not a phantom organization by any stretch,'' she said. 
 If the bankers' association is so exercised about this, why not sic the credit union regulator, the National Credit Union Administration, on USA Fed? Because the association doesn't think the regulator does a very good job. ''The bottom line is that the N.C.U.A. doesn't enforce the common bond rules,'' said Ed Yingling, the association president and chief executive. 
 John J. McKechnie III, a spokesman for the regulator, defended its work. ''We cannot determine intent as to why a particular association or group exists but do monitor compliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements to be granted an associational field of membership,'' he said in an e-mail message. He added that he was not aware of any information that would make USA Fed's inclusion of Prime Meridian members invalid. 
 This jockeying for members is an amusing spectator sport -- until a credit union blows up, that is. In 2008, the credit union regulator liquidated Norlarco Credit Union, based in Fort Collins, Colo., after it had helped to organize and underwrite a Florida real estate lending binge. In an autopsy performed by the credit union administration's Office of Inspector General, auditors noted that about 43 percent of the borrowers lived in the Miami-Dade County area of Florida.
 How did those people get to be members of a credit union in Colorado? It was easy. Norlarco told the Florida dwellers that they could join the Rocky Mountain Bird Observatory or other groups. Membership allowed them to become credit union members and, it turns out, to roll the dice on a bit of house-flipping. 
 Mr. Sebastian, the onetime regulator who also spent many years running the giant GTE Federal Credit Union, said he believed the bankers' complaints masked another issue. ''It's all camouflage for the fact that they don't like that there are institutions that are willing to work on a nonprofit basis,'' he said. ''When you don't have to call Wall Street every quarter and cut rates on savings and raise fees so you can suck even more money out of customers' pockets and put it in shareholders' pockets, well, they can say anything they want. But at the end of the day, their goal is to take as much money from customers as possible and give it to stockholders.''
 That's a fancy bit of rhetoric but it's a type of camouflage, too, intended to avoid the inconvenient fact that most of the people who slip into credit unions through association memberships are simply looking for a better deal. 
 They are hardly ill-served by the banking system. Yet it was that very idea -- of helping those who have no other help -- that was a founding principle behind credit unions and a big part of the reason association members were allowed into credit unions in the first place.
 Mr. Sebastian noted that one maxim in the credit union world is that poverty is not a common bond. All are welcome and have to be included, he said. After all, you need well-heeled deal seekers to save in certificates of deposit so that others can borrow a bit to try to get ahead in life. 
 I'm not sure who is right here, but if you're a consumer it doesn't really matter. So many people haven't gotten the message yet, that it's worth repeating again, once more, with feeling.
 Anyone can join a credit union.
 And until the industry regulator stops allowing many of the biggest credit unions to offer services to anyone who shows up or logs in, you'd be foolish not to check out a few the next time you need financial services. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ed Yingling of the bankers' association says that ''common bond'' rules are not enforced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) (B5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS (93%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); INTERNET BANKING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: PENTAGON FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (60%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



511 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: On Lying About Your Salary

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
Updated at 3:25 p.m. to reflect that the post is up here. Bucks hadn't been able to link to it earlier today. 
 Ellen O'Hara, a book editor in New York, figured out a way to get a pretty much guaranteed pay increase when moving to a new employer. Her trick was to inflate her current salary when applying for the job and then asking for even more. 
 In a Daily Worth post, ''A Little White Lie in Salary Negotiation,'' earlier this week, Ms. O'Hara described how she lied about her current salary to a recruiter for a potential job, saying she was earning $5,000 more than she was.
 Then, when the recruiter called to offer her the job and to let her know the employer would match her current salary, Ms. O'Hara asked for more. The potential employer's response?
 Ms. O'Hara said she was pleasantly surprised to learn the next day that the employer would tack on an additional $5,000. ''I learned that it pays, literally, to be strong and assertive when it comes to money,'' Ms. O'Hara wrote. ''My only regret is that I'd been such a wimp about it for so long.''
 In her post, Ms. O'Hara implied that her little white lie was justified and quoted a colleague as saying that everyone bumps up their old salaries somewhat when applying for new jobs. Plus, like many other women, and unlike many men, she maintained that she had been too passive about her compensation her whole career and had never previously asked for a raise.
 It's certainly true that women tend to be less assertive than men when it comes to compensation. In a recent Your Money column, ''A Toolkit for Women Seeking a Raise,'' my colleague Tara Siegel Bernard explored why the gender pay gap exists -- possible reasons include that women ask for raises less often than men and are perceived differently than men when they do ask. She also provided pointers to women in asking for a raise, including being proactive and researching peers' salaries. But she didn't discuss telling little white lies.
 In fact, the post can no longer be linked to, and DailyWorth has retracted the post. ''We didn't realize how negatively this would be received,'' DailyWorth's founder, Amanda Steinberg, wrote on her site. ''We've heard from a number of HR executives in the DailyWorth community that even slight salary history inflations are illegal and could jeopardize your job application, and to that extent, we will be retracting this post completely.''
 Do you think inflating your old salary is ethical when applying for a job? Why or why not? If you've employed this strategy, how did it go? Should the original post have been retracted?
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EQUAL PAY (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); WOMEN (69%); GENDER EQUALITY (64%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



512 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Green Power, Spare That Tree

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
GREENFIELD, Mass. -- Matthew Wolfe, an energy developer with plans to turn tree branches and other woody debris into electric power, sees himself as a positive force in the effort to wean his state off of planet-warming fossil fuels. 
 ''It's way better than coal,'' Mr. Wolfe said, ''if you look at it over its life cycle.'' 
 Not everyone agrees, as evidenced by lawn signs in this northwestern Massachusetts town reading ''Biomass? No Thanks.'' 
 In fact, power generated by burning wood, plants and other organic material, which makes up 50 percent of all renewable energy produced in the United States, according to federal statistics, is facing increased scrutiny and opposition. 
 That, critics say, is because it is not as climate-friendly as once thought, and the pollution it causes in the short run may outweigh its long-term benefits. 
 The opposition to biomass power threatens its viability as a renewable energy source when the country is looking to diversify its energy portfolio, urged on by President Obama in an address to the nation Tuesday. It also underscores the difficult and complex choices state and local governments face in pursuing clean-energy goals. 
 Biomass proponents say it is a simple and proved renewable technology based on natural cycles. They acknowledge that burning wood and other organic matter releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere just as coal does, but point out that trees and plants also absorb the gas. If done carefully, and without overharvesting, they say, the damage to the climate can be offset.
 But opponents say achieving that sort of balance is almost impossible, and carbon-absorbing forests will ultimately be destroyed to feed a voracious biomass industry fueled inappropriately by clean-energy subsidies. They also argue that, like any incinerating operation, biomass plants generate all sorts of other pollution, including particulate matter. State and federal regulators are now puzzling over these arguments. 
 Last month, in outlining its plans to regulate greenhouse gases, the Environmental Protection Agency declined to exempt emissions from ''biogenic'' sources like biomass power plants. That dismayed the biomass and forest products industries, which typically describe biomass as ''carbon neutral.''
 The agency said more deliberation was needed. 
 Meanwhile, plans for several biomass plants around the country have been dropped because of stiff community opposition.
 In March, a $250 million biomass power project planned for Gretna, Fla., was abandoned after residents complained that it threatened air quality. Two planned plants in Indiana have faced similar grass-roots opposition.
 In April, an association of family physicians in North Carolina told state regulators that biomass power plants there, like other plants and factories that pollute the air, could ''increase the risk of premature death, asthma, chronic bronchitis and heart disease.'' 
 In Massachusetts, fierce opposition to a handful of projects in the western part of the state, including Mr. Wolfe's, prompted officials to order a moratorium on new permits last December, and to commission a scientific review of the environmental credentials of biomass power. 
 That study, released last week, concluded that, at least in Massachusetts, power plants using woody material as fuel would probably prove worse for the climate than existing coal plants over the next several decades. Plants that generate both heat and power, displacing not just coal but also oil and gas, could yield dividends faster, the report said. But in every case, the study found, much depends on what is burned, how it is burned, how forests are managed and how the industry is regulated. 
 Ian A. Bowles, the secretary of the Massachusetts Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, said that biomass power and sustainable forest management were not mutually exclusive. But he also said that the logical conclusion from the study was that biomass plants that generated electricity alone probably should not be eligible for incentives for renewable energy. 
 ''That would represent a significant change in policy,'' Mr. Bowles said. 
 The biomass industry argues that studies like the one in Massachusetts do not make a clear distinction between wood harvested specifically for energy production and the more common, and desirable, practice of burning wood and plant scraps left from agriculture and logging operations. 
 The Biomass Power Association, a trade group based in Maine, said in a statement last week that it was ''not aware of any facilities that use whole trees for energy.''
 During a recent visit to an old gravel pit outside of town where he hopes to build his 47-megawatt Pioneer Renewable Energy project, Mr. Wolfe said the plant would be capable of generating heat and power, and would use only woody residues as a feedstock. ''It's really frustrating,'' he said. ''There's a tremendous deficit of trust that is really inhibiting things.'' 
 In the United States, biomass power plants burn a variety of feedstocks, including rice hulls in Louisiana and sugar cane residues, called bagasse, in parts of Florida and Hawaii. A vast majority, though, some 90 percent, use woody residue as a feedstock, according to the Biomass Power Association. About 75 percent of biomass electricity comes from the paper and pulp companies, which collect their residues and burn them to generate power for themselves. 
 But more than 80 operations in 20 states are grid-connected and generate power for sale to local utilities and distribution to residential and commercial customers, a $1 billion industry, according to the association. The increasing availability of subsidies and tax incentives has put dozens of new projects in the development pipeline. 
 The problem with all this biomass, critics argue, is that wood can actually churn out more greenhouse gases than coal. New trees might well cancel that out, but they do not grow overnight. That means the low-carbon attributes of biomass are often realized too slowly to be particularly useful for combating climate change. 
 Supporters of the technology say those limitations can be overcome with tight regulation of what materials are burned and how they are harvested. ''The key question is the rate of use,'' said Ben Larson of the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group based in Cambridge, Mass., that supports the sensible use of biomass power. ''We need to consider which sources are used, and how the land is taken care of over the long haul.'' 
 But critics maintain that ''sustainable'' biomass power is an oxymoron, and that nowhere near enough residual material exists to feed a large-scale industry. Plant owners, they say, will inevitably be forced to seek out less beneficial fuels, including whole trees harvested from tracts of land that never would have been logged otherwise. Those trees, critics say, would do far more to absorb planet-warming gases if they were simply let alone. 
 ''The fact is, you might get six or seven megawatts of power from residues in Massachusetts,'' said Chris Matera, the founder of Massachusetts Forest Watch. ''They're planning on building about 200 megawatts. So it's a red herring. It's not about burning waste wood. This is about burning trees.'' 
 Whether or not that is true, biomass power is also coming under attack simply for the ordinary air pollution it produces. Web sites like No Biomass Burn, based in the Pacific Northwest, liken biomass emissions to cigarette smoke. Duff Badgley, the coordinator of the site, says a proposed plant in Mason County, Washington, would ''rain toxic pollutants'' on residents there. And the American Lung Association has asked Congress to exclude subsidies for biomass from any new energy bill, citing potentially ''severe impacts'' on health. 
 Nathaniel Greene, the director of renewable energy policy for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that while such concerns were not unfounded, air pollution could be controlled. ''It involves technology that we're really good at,'' Mr. Greene said. For opponents like Mr. Matera, the tradeoffs are not worth it. 
 ''We've got huge problems,'' Mr. Matera said. ''And there's no easy answer. But biomass doesn't do it. It's a false solution that has enormous impacts.'' 
 Mr. Wolfe says that is shortsighted. Wind power and solar power are not ready to scale up technologically and economically, he said, particularly in this corner of Massachusetts. Biomass, by contrast, is proven and available, and while it is far from perfect, he argued, it can play a small part in reducing reliance on fossil fuels. 
 ''Is it carbon-neutral? Is it low-carbon? There's some variety of opinion,'' Mr. Wolfe said. ''But that's missing the forest for the trees. The question I ask is, What's the alternative?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Matera of Massachusetts Forest Watch at a state forest. He called biomass ''a false solution'' with ''enormous impacts.'' (B1)
 A biomass plant is proposed for land in Russell, Mass., above. Matthew Wolfe, left, a developer of biomass plants, which are powered by burning wood, plants and other organic material. (PHOTOS BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); BIOMASS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); CARBON OFFSETS (75%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (75%); PARTICULATE MATTER (73%); AIR QUALITY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); ASTHMA (61%); CHRONIC DISEASES (60%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); FAMILY PRACTICE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



513 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Creative Types, Learning to Be Business-Minded

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Paul Barman thinks his is a great idea for a business: personalized, hip-hop versions of the traditional Jewish wedding contract, known as the ketubah, that he writes and sings.
 He calls them Audioketubah and, at $1,500, they come in the form of handwritten scrolls and CDs, perfect gifts for a couple who cannot stomach another set of stemware. 
 Juan Hinojosa makes collages from found materials like Metrocards and food wrappers, and clothing tags that he filches from high-end stores. He often brings an attractive female friend along to distract the staff while he snips off the labels, though he said he has never actually taken anything of value. 
 On five Saturdays this month and next, Mr. Barman, Mr. Hinojosa and 54 other artists are attending a class paid for by the City of New York that is intended to help them turn their creative works into money.
 ''Does everyone have Excel?,'' Peter Cobb, a lawyer and administrator at the New York Foundation for the Arts, which runs the program, asked the class last Saturday. ''For next week, your assignment is to make a list of all your expenses for 2009.''
 The sighs and complaints that followed were proof of the challenging task Mr. Cobb and his colleagues have taken on: trying to teach people who like to color outside the lines about drawing up business plans, budgeting and making a sales pitch.
 The city's cultural sector ''attracts very, very creative people who have incredible ideas, but they don't always know how to turn their ideas into financial sustainable entities,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. His agency is spending $50,000 on this program and a similar one being run by the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, with Creative Capital.
 It is harder than it used to be to live as an artist in New York City, given the cost of housing, studios and rehearsal space, and the Bloomberg administration does not want artists to leave the city. Culture is a magnet for tourism and a major reason why people in other professions (and often higher tax brackets) want to live here. Ergo, two city-financed courses devised to help artists help themselves.
 ''It's kind of the teach-a-person-to-fish school of cultural support,'' Mr. Pinsky said.
 The group attending the five-week program includes painters, sculptors, photographers, filmmakers, creative writers, actors, directors, dancers, singers, musicians -- and some who defied categorization, like Ryan Murdock. He said his work encompassed filmmaking, radio documentary and photography, as well as organizing events that brought together ''silent films, live music and homemade pies.'' He said he had recently quit his job in public television, and hoped to arrive at ''a business structure that will allow me to do everything I want to do, because I'm too curious to pin myself down.''
 Along with group sessions covering subjects like intellectual property and Internet marketing, each artist has a 20-minute meeting with a New York Foundation for the Arts staff member or an outside adviser to review his or her business plan. At the end of the course, the students can apply for subsidized studio or rehearsal space at the Brooklyn Army Terminal, courtesy of Chashama, an organization that transforms vacant properties into art spaces.
 ''Artists are not taught to plan,'' said Jackie Battenfield, a painter and the author of ''The Artist's Guide: How to Make a Living Doing What You Love.'' Too often, she said, they're ''going in circles, and that's very demoralizing.''
 This is the first time the city has financed such a program, though others, like one at the Bronx Museum called Artists in the Marketplace, have long strived to help artists manage their careers.
 Most of the artists in the class had some kind of day job. Many teach. Mr. Barman, who has released several albums, does freelance journalism and teaches hip-hop to high school students.
 Mr. Hinojosa works as an assistant to a more established artist, Shinique Smith. He has also sold his own works for as much as $2,000, and thinks that he'll eventually be able to make a living from his art. One benefit to art made from found materials, he points out: ''The supplies are free.''
 Eric Wright, a lanky puppeteer, is one of a few students who already have a successful business. With two partners, he runs The Puppet Kitchen in the East Village, which has built puppets for the Disney Channel, Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, the Public Theater and the noted puppeteer Basil Twist. 
 They have more work than they can do themselves and want to expand, but, being artists, Mr. Wright said, they need help with the financial side of things. ''Most business development courses are for restaurant managers'' and people in other traditional businesses, he said, so he was thrilled to find one geared to artists. ''People think that art and business are at odds,'' he said, but ''you can create great art and have it also be a business.''
 Mr. Pinsky said the city plans to follow up to see how many participants succeed in implementing their business plans. 
 Mr. Barman said that when it comes to his Audioketubahs, he is motivated by much more than just profit.
 ''It's the most positive, fun, exciting, deep and funny thing I've ever been involved in,'' he said of writing the songs, for which he often interviews the bride and groom at length, over drinks. ''Every single one I do makes everyone so happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juan Hinojosa with his installation ''Prada War'' at his Queens apartment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FILM (88%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (85%); MUSIC (83%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); DANCERS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); PAINTING (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WRITERS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); DANCE (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



514 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Senate Passes Plan to Stop Medicare Pay Cuts to Doctors

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With lawmakers worried that older Americans relying on Medicare could begin losing access to health care, the Senate on Friday approved a six-month plan to prevent a steep cut in doctors' fees paid by the federal health program. 
 The $6.4 billion measure would reverse a 21 percent cut in physician payments that was to kick in Friday, raising the possibility that some doctors might begin to turn away those covered by Medicare. The legislation, known on Capitol Hill as the doc fix, was approved without a roll-call vote after leaders of both parties agreed to pull it out of a stalled package of tax changes and safety-net spending.
 Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who leads the Senate Finance Committee, said the legislation was needed to avert ''near chaos in absence of medical care to seniors.''
 The cost of the measure was offset by changes in Medicare billing regulations, antifraud provisions and the tightening of some pension rules, eliminating Republican objections that it would put the federal government deeper into debt.
 ''We've done it without adding to the deficit, and I think that is something both sides can feel good about,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
 Soon after the Senate vote, Medicare officials announced that they would begin processing claims for June at the lower rate, which remains in force until the House acts on the measure. The House returns next week. 
 Though the Senate made progress on the Medicare front, it faces difficulty in resolving other stalled issues, including $40 billion in added unemployment benefits and $24 billion in aid to states to provide health care to the poor. Democrats failed to break a partisan stalemate over those programs on Thursday night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX LAW (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



515 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2511 words

HEADLINE: Peddling Relief, Firms Put Debtors in a Deeper Hole

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
PALM BEACH, Fla. -- For the companies that promise relief to Americans confronting swelling credit card balances, these are days of lucrative opportunity.
 So lucrative, that an industry trade association, the United States Organizations for Bankruptcy Alternatives, recently convened here, in the oceanfront confines of the Four Seasons Resort, to forge deals and plot strategy. 
 At a well-lubricated evening reception, a steel drum band played Bob Marley songs as hostesses in skimpy dresses draped leis around the necks of arriving entrepreneurs, some with deep tans. 
 The debt settlement industry can afford some extravagance. The long recession has delivered an abundance of customers -- debt-saturated Americans, suffering lost jobs and income, sliding toward bankruptcy. The settlement companies typically harvest fees reaching 15 to 20 percent of the credit card balances carried by their customers, and they tend to collect upfront, regardless of whether a customer's debt is actually reduced. 
 State attorneys general from New York to California and consumer watchdogs like the Better Business Bureau say the industry's proceeds come at the direct expense of financially troubled Americans who are being fleeced of their last dollars with dubious promises. 
 Consumers rarely emerge from debt settlement programs with their credit card balances eliminated, these critics say, and many wind up worse off, with severely damaged credit, ceaseless threats from collection agents and lawsuits from creditors.
 In the Kansas City area, Linda Robertson, 58, rues the day she bought the pitch from a debt settlement company advertising on the radio, promising to spare her from bankruptcy and eliminate her debts. She wound up sending nearly $4,000 into a special account established under the company's guidance before a credit card company sued her, prompting her to drop out of the program. 
 By then, her account had only $1,470 remaining: The debt settlement company had collected the rest in fees. She is now filing for bankruptcy. 
 ''They take advantage of vulnerable people,'' she said. ''When you're desperate and you're trying to get out of debt, they take advantage of you.'' Debt settlement has swollen to some 2,000 firms, from a niche of perhaps a dozen companies a decade ago, according to trade associations and the Federal Trade Commission, which is completing new rules aimed at curbing abuses within the industry.
 Last year, within the industry's two leading trade associations -- the United States Organizations for Bankruptcy Alternatives and the Association of Settlement Companies -- some 250 companies collectively had more than 425,000 customers, who had enrolled roughly $11.7 billion in credit card balances in their programs.
 As the industry has grown, so have allegations of unfair practices. Since 2004, at least 21 states have brought at least 128 enforcement actions against debt relief companies, according to the National Association of Attorneys General. Consumer complaints received by states more than doubled between 2007 and 2009, according to comments filed with the Federal Trade Commission. 
 ''The industry's not legitimate,'' said Norman Googel, assistant attorney general in West Virginia, which has prosecuted debt settlement companies. ''They're targeting a group of people who are already drowning in debt. We're talking about middle-class and lower middle-class people who had incomes, but they were using credit cards to survive.''
 The industry counters that a few rogue operators have unfairly tarnished the reputations of well-intentioned debt settlement companies that provide a crucial service: liberating Americans from impossible credit card burdens. 
 With the unemployment rate near double digits and 6.7 million people out of work for six months or longer, many have relied on credit cards. By the middle of last year, 6.5 percent of all accounts were at least 30 days past due, up from less than 4 percent in 2005, according to Moody'sEconomy.com. 
 Yet a 2005 alteration spurred by the financial industry made it harder for Americans to discharge credit card debts through bankruptcy, generating demand for alternatives like debt settlement.
 The Arrangement
 The industry casts itself as a victim of a smear campaign orchestrated by the giant banks that dominate the credit card trade and aim to hang on to the spoils: interest rates of 20 percent or more and exorbitant late fees.
 ''We're the little guys in this,'' said John Ansbach, the chief lobbyist for the United States Organizations for Bankruptcy Alternatives, better known as Usoba (pronounced you-SO-buh). ''We exist to advocate for consumers. Two and a half billion dollars of unsecured debt has been settled by this industry, so how can you take the position that it has no value?''
 But consumer watchdogs and state authorities argue that debt settlement companies generally fail to deliver. 
 In the typical arrangement, the companies direct consumers to set up special accounts and stock them with monthly deposits while skipping their credit card payments. Once balances reach sufficient size, negotiators strike lump-sum settlements with credit card companies that can cut debts in half. The programs generally last two to three years. 
 ''What they don't tell their customers is when you stop sending the money, creditors get angry,'' said Andrew G. Pizor, a staff lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center. ''Collection agents call. Sometimes they sue. People think they're settling their problems and getting some relief, and lo and behold they get slammed with a lawsuit.'' 
 In the case of two debt settlement companies sued last year by New York State, the attorney general alleged that no more than 1 percent of customers gained the services promised by marketers. A Colorado investigation came to a similar conclusion.
 The industry's own figures show that clients typically fail to secure relief. In a survey of its members, the Association of Settlement Companies found that three years after enrolling, only 34 percent of customers had either completed programs or were still saving for settlements.
 ''The industry is designed almost as a Ponzi scheme,'' said Scott Johnson, chief executive of US Debt Resolve, a debt settlement company based in Dallas, which he portrays as a rare island of integrity in a sea of shady competitors. ''Consumers come into these programs and pay thousands of dollars and then nothing happens. What they constantly have to have is more consumers coming into the program to come up with the money for more marketing.''
 The Pitch
 Linda Robertson knew nothing about the industry she was about to encounter when she picked up the phone at her Missouri home in February 2009 in response to a radio ad.
 What she knew was that she could no longer manage even the monthly payments on her roughly $23,000 in credit card debt. 
 So much had come apart so quickly. 
 Before the recession, Ms. Robertson had been living in Phoenix, earning as much as $8,000 a month as a real estate appraiser. In 2005, she paid $185,000 for a three-bedroom house with a swimming pool and a yard dotted with hibiscus.
 When the real estate business collapsed, she gave up her house to foreclosure and moved in with her son. She got a job as a waitress, earning enough to hang on to her car. She tapped credit cards to pay for gasoline and groceries.
 By late 2007, she and her son could no longer afford his apartment. She moved home to Kansas City, where an aunt offered a room. She took a job on the night shift at a factory that makes plastic lids for packaged potato chips, earning $11.15 an hour. 
 Still, her credit card balances swelled.
 The radio ad offered the services of a company based in Dallas with a soothing name: Financial Freedom of America. It cast itself as an antidote to the breakdown of middle-class life.
 ''We negotiate the past while you navigate the future,'' read a caption on its Web site, next to a photo of a young woman nose-kissing an adorable boy. ''The American Dream. It was never about bailouts or foreclosures. It was always about American values like hard work, ingenuity and looking out for your neighbor.'' 
 When Ms. Robertson called, a customer service representative laid out a plan. Every month, Ms. Robertson would send $427.93 into a new account. Three years later, she would be debt-free. The representative told her the company would take $100 a month as an administrative fee, she recalled. His tone was take-charge.
 ''You talk about a rush-through,'' Ms. Robertson said. ''I didn't even get to read the contract. It was all done. I had to sign it on the computer while he was on the phone. Then he called me back in 10 minutes to say it was done. He made me feel like this was the answer to my problems and I wasn't going to have to face bankruptcy.'' 
 Ms. Robertson made nine payments, according to Financial Freedom. Late last year, a sheriff's deputy arrived at her door with court papers: One of her creditors, Capital One, had filed suit to collect roughly $5,000.
 Panicked, she called Financial Freedom to seek guidance. ''They said, 'Oh, we don't have any control over that, and you don't have enough money in your account for us to settle with them,' '' she recalled. 
 Her account held only $1,470, the representative explained, though she had by then deposited more than $3,700. Financial Freedom had taken the rest for its administrative fees, the company confirmed.
 Financial Freedom later negotiated for her to make $100 monthly payments toward satisfying her debt to the creditor, but Ms. Robertson rejected that arrangement, no longer trusting the company. She demanded her money back. 
 She also filed a report with the Better Business Bureau in Dallas, adding to a stack of more than 100 consumer complaints lodged against the company. The bureau gives the company a failing grade of F. 
 Ms. Robertson received $1,470 back through the closure of her account, and then $1,120 -- half the fees that Financial Freedom collected. Her pending bankruptcy has cost her $1,500 in legal fees.
 ''I trusted them,'' she said. ''They sounded like they were going to help me out. It's a rip-off.''
 Financial Freedom's chief executive, Corey Butcher, rejected that characterization. 
 ''We talked to her multiple times and verified the full details,'' he said, adding that his company puts every client through a verification process to validate that they understand the risks -- from lawsuits to garnished wages.
 Intense and brooding, Mr. Butcher speaks of a personal mission to extricate consumers from credit card debt. But roughly half his customers fail to complete the program, he complained, with most of the cancellations coming within the first six months. He pinned the low completion rate on the same lack of discipline that has fostered many American ailments, from obesity to the foreclosure crisis.
 ''It comes from a lack of commitment,'' Mr. Butcher said. ''It's like going and hiring a personal trainer at a health club. Some people act like they have lost the weight already, when actually they have to go to the gym three days a week, use the treadmill, cut back on their eating. They have to stick with it. At some point, the client has to take responsibility for their circumstance.''
 Consumer watchdogs point to another reason customers wind up confused and upset: bogus marketing promises.
 In April, the United States Government Accountability Office released a report drawing on undercover agents who posed as prospective customers at 20 debt settlement companies. According to the report, 17 of the 20 firms advised clients to stop paying their credit card bills. Some companies marketed their programs as if they had the imprimatur of the federal government, with one advertising itself as a ''national debt relief stimulus plan.'' Several claimed that 85 to 100 percent of their customers completed their programs.
 ''The vast majority of companies provided fraudulent and deceptive information,'' said Gregory D. Kutz, managing director of forensic audits and special investigations at the G.A.O. in testimony before the Senate Commerce Committee during an April hearing.
 At the same hearing, Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, pressed Mr. Ansbach, the Usoba lobbyist, to explain why his organization refused to disclose its membership.
 ''The leadership in our trade group candidly was concerned that publishing a list of members ended up being a subpoena list,'' Mr. Ansbach said.
 ''Probably a genuine concern,'' Senator McCaskill replied.
 The Coming Crackdown
 On multiple fronts, state and federal authorities are now taking aim at the industry.
 The Federal Trade Commission has proposed banning upfront fees, bringing vociferous lobbying from industry groups. The commission is expected to issue new rules this summer. Senator McCaskill has joined with fellow Democrat Charles E. Schumer of New York to sponsor a bill that would cap fees charged by debt settlement companies at 5 percent of the savings recouped by their customers. Legislation in several states, including New York, California and Illinois, would also cap fees. A new consumer protection agency created as part of the financial regulatory reform bill in Congress could further constrain the industry.
 The prospect of regulation hung palpably over the trade show at this Atlantic-side resort, tempering the orchid-adorned buffet tables and poolside cocktails with a note of foreboding.
 ''The current debt settlement business model is going to die,'' declared Jeffrey S. Tenenbaum, a lawyer in the Washington firm Venable, addressing a packed ballroom. ''The only question is who the executioner is going to be.'' 
 That warning did not dislodge the spirit of expansion. Exhibitors paid as much as $4,500 for display space to showcase their wares -- software to manage accounts, marketing expertise, call centers -- to attendees who came for two days of strategy sessions and networking.
 Cody Krebs, a senior account executive from Southern California, manned a booth for LowerMyBills.com, whose Internet ads link customers to debt settlement companies. Like many who have entered the industry, he previously sold subprime mortgages. When that business collapsed, he found refuge selling new products to the same set of customers -- people with poor credit. 
 ''It's been tremendous,'' he said. ''Business has tripled in the last year and a half.'' 
 The threat of regulations makes securing new customers imperative now, before new rules can take effect, said Matthew G. Hearn, whose firm, Mstars of Minneapolis, trains debt settlement sales staffs. ''Do what you have to do to get the deals on the board,'' he said, pacing excitedly in front of a podium.
 And if some debt settlement companies have gained an unsavory reputation, he added, make that a marketing opportunity.
 ''We aren't like them,'' Mr. Hearn said. ''You need to constantly pitch that. 'We aren't bad actors. It's the ones out there that are.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PORT IN A DEBT STORM: Linda Robertson, right, hugs her aunt Helen Day. Ms. Robertson moved in with her in Kansas City after she and her son could no longer afford his apartment. Ms. Robertson paid nearly $4,000 into a debt settlement account, but filed for bankruptcy after a credit card company sued her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BUSTLING BUSINESS At the gathering of debt settlement companies in Palm Beach, right, Jennifer Steward, center, and Mandy Eden. Below, John Ansbach, a lobbyist for an industry association, addressed a group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (87%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



516 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Peeking at the Negative Side of High School Popularity

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PROM time has come and gone, and while it didn't affect me or my sons this year (I'm too old, they're too young), it still caused a reminiscent tightening in my stomach.
 The prom, along with its endless pre- and post events, is just one more social trial that adolescents face in their school years and yet another test of their relative popularity, of fitting in, of being accepted.
 And it got me thinking about popularity. It's important for most teenagers, but sometimes even more so for their parents. In my community, parents often like boasting (thinly veiled by mock dismay) that their children are at parties every weekend and never around the house.
 I have, for example, a friend whose son is academically proficient and involved in school and outside activities. Yet, he is not a big socializer. 
 ''It's hard,'' she says. ''When other parents talk, it's easy to feel like something is wrong with your child, even when there isn't.''
 So I wondered, is popularity always a good thing? And how does it play out in life after high school?
 Mitchell J. Prinstein, a professor and director of clinical psychology at the University of North Carolina, outlines the way researchers often look at popularity: there are the students he calls ''high status,'' like the student council president or the captain of the football team.
 ''Some of the most popular kids are very much disliked by other kids,'' he said. This may be partly envy, but sometimes these standout teenagers can be bullies or part of the mean-girl clique.
 Another kind of popularity is what Professor Prinstein calls ''likeability.'' That is how much a person is liked or preferred by peers -- someone other people enjoy hanging out with on a Saturday night.
 These teenagers tend to be well-adjusted on many levels, including enjoying good relationships with their parents and other adults, as well as being able to master diverse social situations.
 ''They tend to be carefully attuned to the norms of their peer group,'' said Joseph P. Allen, a professor of psychology at the University of Virginia. ''They're less trendsetters than trend spotters.''
 Surveys estimate that about 20 percent of students in any school are highly liked, about 50 percent are average -- having some friends, but not necessarily a lot -- and the rest are considered neglected or rejected students. These are either ignored or actively disliked.
 That pretty much sets the scene for most high schools we know. I fell into that vast middle ground -- I had a group of friends, was involved in various school activities and sports (and yes, I went to the prom). But I certainly didn't scale the glittering heights of popularity.
 Still, the real question is, what does being popular in middle and high school tell us about the world outside the bubble of adolescence? Does it matter?
 Professor Allen, who is also the co-author of ''Escaping the Endless Adolescence'' (Ballantine, 2009), has some answers. He has been following a demographically diverse group of 185 students from Charlottesville, Va., since they were 13 years old; they are now 24. He plans to continue studying them for several more years.
 Professor Allen is using the criteria of likeability, rather than high status, to define popularity. His longitudinal study has found that the more popular teenagers were more likely to get into trouble with mild deviant behavior, like shoplifting or vandalism, and to drink or smoke marijuana.
 ''This is the currency of adolescents,'' Professor Prinstein said. ''It's one way to signal to their peers that I'm not doing what adults want. I'm autonomous and independent.''
 Much of that small-time crime disappears as the students age, Professor Allen said, but the drinking and marijuana use actually tended to become even more of a problem in college and afterward.
 While not every highly social teenager engages in substance abuse, ''we find that the popular kids are more vulnerable,'' he said. The very thing that makes teenagers popular -- being in tune with the needs and norms of their peers -- can have negative consequences, he added.
 The good news is that it's not necessary to have loads of friends or to rank high on the popularity scale to feel good about yourself, researchers have found.
 If your child has a few close friends who make her feel accepted and liked, is doing fairly well academically and is involved in a few activities in or out of school, then you probably have little to worry about. ''They're learning to be both connected and autonomous,'' Professor Allen said.
 In fact, another study of 164 13- and 14-year-olds, a subset of Professor Allen's group, found that teenagers who perceived themselves as well liked and comfortable with their peers were just as socially successful over time as those who were deemed popular by others. This internal sense of social acceptance, the study's authors said, may be as or more important in the long run than the number of friends you have.
 But there is some evidence that being more popular may have some long-term economic benefits. Using information from 4,330 male respondents from the Wisconsin Longitudinal Study -- one-third of a continuing random sample of more than 10,000 men and women who graduated from Wisconsin high schools in 1957 -- a group of economic and labor researchers reported in 2009 that they had found a link between number of friends and higher earnings in the future.
 The participants were asked in a 1975 survey to name their three closest same-sex friends from high school. Controlling for all other factors, including intelligence, the 2009 report found that being nominated as a close friend by one person is associated with earnings that are 2 percent higher later in life. Nominations by five people equaled a 10 percent increase in wages.
 It may be that being named as a close friend indicates good social skills that are beneficial throughout life, said Gabriella Conti, a postdoctoral scholar at the University of Chicago and lead author on the report.
 Certainly there is evidence that the qualities we usually associate with being well liked -- being extroverted, emotionally stable and self-confident -- usually help on the job.
 ''A lot of work being performed in the current workplace is not done in isolation,'' Brent A. Scott, an assistant professor of management at Michigan State University who wrote his doctoral dissertation on popularity at work. ''People need to be socially capable in teams, and to be successful they need to navigate the social landscape. Popular people are more capable of that.''
 But there are other qualities that contribute to being well liked professionally that may not have carried much clout in school, he said, like being conscientious about your job.
 The good news for all of us is that once we leave high school, there are far more ways to flourish than in the narrow confines of adolescence. How many of us have had the rewarding experience of going to our school reunion to discover that the mighty have fallen, or at least are just as human as the rest of us?
 The bigger puzzle, I find, is why so few people actually believe in retrospect that they were popular in high school.
 ''Because it's a jungle,'' Professor Allen said. ''Even if you were popular, you still had experiences of being left out and rejected. No one goes through unscathed.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Saturday with the Shortcuts column, about the drawbacks of teenage popularity, misstated the findings of a survey described in the column. The survey, conducted by Joseph P. Allen, a psychology professor at the University of Virginia, found that the more popular teenagers were more likely get into trouble, including by substance abuse; he did not cite high-status teenagers like cheerleaders and football heroes. (He defined popularity by likability, not by social status.) The error was repeated in a capsule summary of the article.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A study found high-status students, like cheerleaders and football heroes, more susceptible to substance abuse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



517 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: A Plus-Size Retail Revelation: Bigger Women Have Cash, Too

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Corseted into a size 18 white denim dress, wearing heels that made her about 6-foot-2, Gwen DeVoe, a former model and fashion-show producer, stepped onto a runway in Manhattan this week and made a pitch to retailers for the plus-size woman. 
 Those stores that don't carry bigger sizes? ''Shame on you, baby, shame on you,'' Ms. DeVoe said. ''Every curvy girl that has a dollar is willing to spend that dollar.''
 So retailers are realizing.
 That same day, a division of the Centers for Disease Control and Preventionreported that 28 percent of the adult population was obese last year, the highest percentage yet. Almost two-thirds of American women are either overweight or obese, according to the most recent CDC figures. 
 As doctors and public health officials encourage Americans to slim down, the fashion industry is embracing Americans as they are. Both mass-market stores like Forever 21 and Target and expensive designers like Elie Tahari are deciding the fattening of America is a big business opportunity, and are reinvigorating a market that had faltered during the recession.
 The standard clothing that most stores have focused on in recent years fits fewer and fewer people. And as retailers search for ways to invigorate sales, plus size is one of the few categories where there is growth. The plus-size market increased 1.4 percent while overall women's apparel declined 0.8 percent in the 12 months leading up to April 2010 versus the same period a year earlier, the most recent figures available, according to NPD Group, a market research firm.
 ''It just makes business sense,'' said Ms. DeVoe, who founded ''Full-Figured Fashion Week'' last year to press mainstream retailers to embrace bigger sizes. ''I've been told several times that no one fantasizes about being a plus-size woman, and that's probably true, but the fact remains that you have to work with what you have.''
 That is not always so easy for retailers venturing into the world of larger shoppers. Some bigger women do not like to try on clothes in the same fitting rooms as smaller women. Plus-size stocks take up valuable storage space, and not everyone is big in the same way, meaning stores cannot count on, say, a size 16 dress fitting most 180-pound women -- one might have a larger torso, another big thighs and another wider hips. 
 ''There are variations not only in the frame, but if you're looking at larger women, you're also looking at the way fat deposits are arranged around the body,'' said Susan Ashdown, a professor at Cornell who studies body shape and clothing fit by creating a three-dimensional scan of a person's almost-nude body.
 Plus-size clothes, which now generally begin at size 14, have been around for at least 90 years, since a Lithuanian immigrant, Lena Bryant (her name was later misspelled as ''Lane'' on a business form), turned a maternity-wear business into a line for stout women in the 1920s. There have been several effort to make plus-size clothes more available, but, as the name of the 1980s-era plus-size chain The Forgotten Woman suggested, larger women have usually been relegated to stand-alone boutiques stocked with shapeless purple caftans.
 ''One of the things that happens with plus-size women is, as a rule, they're pretty under-served,'' said Bill Bass, president of Sonsi, a social networking and retail site for heavier women. ''The big companies forget about them or ignore them, or make them go online to buy their clothes since they won't have them in stores.''
 Although Americans have grown steadily heavier in the last decade, women's plus-size clothing still makes up only 17 percent of the women's apparel market today, according to NPD. There just is not much supply or variation in plus-size clothes for women to buy, said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst at NPD. And the big retailers have mostly stayed away. 
 Cost is one issue. Plus-size clothes are more difficult, and expensive, to make than more traditional sizes. Material can be the largest portion of a garment's cost -- up to about 60 percent -- and larger sizes require not only more of it, but sometimes different production processes.
 ''Its not just about how much fabric is required,'' said Deepa Neary, a retail consultant at A.T. Kearney, a consulting firm. ''You're actually using wider bolts of fabric, and that sometimes requires special machinery to produce the garments. You often don't get to pass that on to the consumer, so your margins are not as high as the regular-size clothing.''
 And with limited floor space, retailers say it's hard to display, say, blouses from size 0 to 24. So the plus market ''unfortunately gets treated like an exile,'' said Kathy Bradley-Riley, senior vice president for merchandising at the trend forecasting firm Doneger Group.
 Given those difficulties, some companies have pulled back on plus-size offerings. Old Navy and Ann Taylor stopped selling plus sizes in stores in the last few years, and now sell them only online. Liz Claiborne, which still sells some plus-size clothing, shut down its plus-size line Elisabeth, along with Sigrid Olsen, which carried larger sizes. It sold Ellen Tracy, which also had a plus-size offering. But given the strong sales in the sector more recently, and women becoming ever more overweight, some companies are giving the plus-size market a second look.
 The chain Forever 21, which is based in California, introduced Faith 21, its larger-size line, last year. Though sales were much stronger than the company expected, that did not mean it had mastered the category. ''We have been working through the kinks even now,'' said Linda Chang, Forever 21's director of marketing. ''It doesn't come as easily as maybe the smaller clothing would.''
 Last summer, Target began carrying a line called Pure Energy that translated young, trendy clothes to larger sizes, adding to its more mature plus-size offerings.
 ''We definitely view this category as a growth opportunity,'' said a Target spokeswoman, Katie Heinze. After testing Pure Energy in some stores, Target decided to carry it in all 1,740 outlets.
 Elie Tahari, the high-end designer, began selling a plus-size line this year, and at Full-Figured Fashion Week, more than 25 other designers showed their plus-size clothes to an audience of retail buyers and plus-size women.
 Backstage before a runway show on Wednesday night, it looked like a sorority house before a formal: shoes everywhere, makeup stacked on tables, the smell of hairspray and baby powder, and women lounging about in silk robes.
 On stage, Ms. DeVoe emphasized that plus-size women were ready to buy clothes. 
 As the crowd whooped, Ms. DeVoe shouted, ''My pockets are fat!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A full-figure fashion show in New York. The plus-size market in women's clothes is increasing. (A1)
 A model at the fashion show in New York last Wednesday intended, in part, to entice retailers to carry plus sizes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); WOMEN (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); OBESITY (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



518 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Most State Jobless Rates Fall

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Unemployment rates in a majority of states dropped in May. But the widespread declines were mainly because people gave up looking for work and were no longer counted. 
 The unemployment rate fell in 37 states and the District of Columbia, the Labor Department said Friday. Six states had increases and seven experienced no change.
 Forty-one states and the District of Columbia saw a net increase in jobs. But that reflected national data showing a huge gain because of government hiring of temporary census workers.
 Nevada now has the highest jobless rate in the country, the first time in more than four years that Michigan did not hold that distinction. Nevada's rate climbed to 14 percent. Michigan's fell to 13.6 percent.
 Nationally, the unemployment rate dipped to 9.7 percent in May from 9.9 percent in April. But the drop was largely because hundreds of thousands of jobless people stopped searching for work.
 A total of 431,000 new jobs were added across the country in May, the biggest gain in a decade. Still, the surge came from 411,000 temporary census jobs. 
 Big states led all others in job growth. Texas had a net gain of 43,600 jobs, California was up 28,300 and New York rose by 21,000.
 Nevada's jobless rate rose from 13.7 percent in April. That state has been hurt by the collapse in housing and a downturn in tourism.
 Unemployment in Michigan, a state hurt by the troubles in the auto industry, fell from 14 percent in April. Michigan had had the highest monthly unemployment rate in the country since April 2006.
 North Dakota continued to have the lowest unemployment rate in the country at 3.6 percent. It was followed by South Dakota (4.6 percent) and Nebraska (4.9 percent).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CENSUS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



519 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: 'Chinatown' Buses Expand Routes

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
The bargain lines widely known as the Chinatown buses are rolling out new routes beyond the Northeast corridor, to hubs like Atlanta, Orlando and Chicago. 
 Many of the bus routes have been in existence for several years, catering mostly to the Chinese immigrant clientele for whom the carriers were originally started in the 1990s. But several bus companies have begun publicizing the routes to the students, backpackers and other English-speaking bargain-hunters who have embraced the lines as a cheap mode of transportation through the Northeast.
 ''The Chinatown buses are booming,'' said Jimmy Chen, who runs the Boston-based shuttle bus booking service Gotobus.com. ''Even during a year when the economy was not so good.''
 Chinatown buses now go to around 30 cities from New York, according to Mr. Chen, and there are more than 40 such companies in operation across the country.
 The moves allow the bus companies to compete with low-cost carriers like Megabus and BoltBus, which operate along the traditional Chinatown bus turf as well as nationwide. Among the Chinatown bus companies rolling out routes are I-95 Coach, which is offering a New York-to-Orlando trip, and Horse Run Tour, from New York to Atlanta.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACIE ROZHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (93%); AIR SERVICE (90%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); AIRLINES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



520 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Russia Steps Up Effort to Woo Foreign Investors

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia -- President Dmitri A. Medvedev set out on Friday to woo overseas investors at his country's largest foreign investment forum, a sharp contrast to previous years. 
 At past meetings of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, Mr. Medvedev assailed the dollar as a global currency, and his predecessor, Vladimir V. Putin, criticized the International Monetary Fund as a tool of developed nations. 
 But on Friday, Mr. Medvedev described in the most detail yet an emerging policy to diversify Russia's economy away from oil by developing a high-technology sector with foreign investment. 
 A need to maintain close ties with Western countries and businessmen to attract technology and expertise has been a recurring theme recently for his presidency.
 A foreign-policy document leaked to the Russian version of Newsweek recently raised arguments for improving ties with the United States and European Union with the goal of easing technology transfer to Russia. 
 On Friday, Mr. Medvedev said he had good news for the chief executives gathered at the forum and described how Russia would seek to improve the climate for foreign investments. ''We changed,'' Mr. Medvedev said. 
 Economic diversification has been a top priority for Russia, the world's largest energy-exporting nation, since its oil-dependent economy faltered in the autumn of 2008, though there have been few results so far. What is new is the policy of linking the goals of diversification and modernization with improved access for foreign investors. 
 ''Creating a comfortable climate for investors is essentially our most important task,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''These are the goals of our modernization.'' 
 Mr. Medvedev said Russia would cut capital gains taxes, reform white-collar criminal law and privatize state enterprises, all to make the country more attractive to investors in sectors other than the boom-and-bust oil and mining industries.
 The government, he said, would reduce the number of wholly owned state companies to 159 from 230, though this reform would not cover the largest state companies like Gazprom because they already had private shareholders. Mr. Medvedev noted changes in legislation requiring prosecutorial oversight of police enforcement of financial crime, apparently intended to curb widespread police corruption. 
 ''Russia should become an attractive country,'' Mr. Medvedev said. ''People from around the world will go here in search of their dreams and search for better opportunities for success and self-fulfillment.'' 
 Mr. Medvedev, a former law professor and corporate lawyer, has shown a greater inclination to foster private business than his predecessor, who is now prime minister. Mr. Putin oversaw a partial nationalization of the oil industry and is still the final arbiter of economic policy. 
 As if to underscore that point, Mr. Putin announced on Friday new supports for the domestic banking sector and, while visiting factories in a rust-belt area of Russia, suggested he would help them by reviewing import duties on heavy machinery.
 All the same, businessmen greeted Mr. Medvedev's sunny speech as a welcome pitch to foreign investors from a government known more for its cold shoulder, made plausible by the government's need for an infusion of expertise in running technology enterprises. 
 ''International investors are engaging, and being engaged,'' Darrell Stanaford, the director in Russia for CB Richard Ellis, the global real estate firm, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (70%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (68%); TAX LAW (68%); LAWYERS (64%); TAX REFORM (63%); CORRUPTION (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); MINES & MINING (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



521 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Obama Asks G-20 States To Maintain Stimulus

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will face significant challenges at a summit meeting in Toronto next week, where he will be trying to secure cooperation from European and Chinese leaders in nurturing the still-fragile recovery of the global economy.
 European countries are pulling back on spending with a speed that the Obama administration believes could derail the global recovery. China signaled this week that it would not let its currency rise in value anytime soon, raising the prospect of a showdown with Congress. Germany and France have turned skittish about an American-led push to raise capital and liquidity requirements for large banks. 
 Meanwhile, the United States and Britain favor a tax on the giant banks, but do not support a further-reaching proposal by the European Union to tax financial transactions. Canada, Japan and Australia oppose any form of bank tax. 
 The disagreements threaten to hurt the effectiveness of the Group of 20, the expanded club of nations that Mr. Obama and his predecessor, George W. Bush, have used to coordinate the response to the financial crisis. 
 ''The G-20 has shown impressive solidarity in the crisis phase, but as an uneven recovery begins, maintaining cohesion is becoming more difficult,'' said Stewart M. Patrick, director of the Program on International Institutions and Global Governance at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''The 'fellowship of the lifeboat' will be harder to maintain as the acute crisis passes.'' 
 The extent of the administration's concerns was revealed Friday in a letter Mr. Obama sent to his G-20 counterparts and in subsequent statements by administration officials. ''Our highest priority in Toronto must be to safeguard and strengthen the recovery,'' Mr. Obama wrote. 
 The letter included a message evidently aimed at Germany, Britain, France and other European countries that have recently unveiled plans to pare spending, mindful of the wrenching consequences of excessive public debts in Greece and Portugal. 
 ''We must be flexible in adjusting the pace of consolidation and learn from the consequential mistakes of the past when stimulus was too quickly withdrawn and resulted in renewed economic hardships and recession,'' Mr. Obama wrote. 
 The United States is trying to rein in its own debt. Mr. Obama reiterated a pledge to cut the deficit, now about 10 percent of gross domestic product, in half by the 2013 fiscal year, and to 3 percent of G.D.P. by the 2015 fiscal year, which he said would ''stabilize the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio at an acceptable level.'' But he has put off any aggressive deficit-cutting until after November's midterm elections.
 He also wrote that ''market-determined exchange rates are essential to global economic vitality'' -- a reference to the view that China's currency, the renminbi, is undervalued. 
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, deliberately missed an April 15 deadline for issuing a foreign-exchange report that could declare China a currency manipulator, a finding that would prompt retaliatory duties against Chinese imports. 
 At the time, Mr. Geithner said the G-20 meeting in June would be the logical forum for addressing the currency issue.
 But on Friday, two Chinese officials, Cui Tiankai of the Foreign Ministry and Zhang Tao of the People's Bank of China, told reporters in Beijing that China would move at its own pace. Mr. Cui said the renminbi was ''not an issue the international community should discuss,'' a position at odds with the Obama administration's.
 ''What the president said is something that the G-20 nations all agreed on last time around, which is that we'd all be better off with a market-based exchange rate,'' a White House spokesman, Bill Burton, told reporters Friday. 
 The divisions within the G-20 reflect in part the diverging economic paths of its members. Emerging-market economies like China's are leading the global recovery. The move by consumers to save more and spend less has led to slower growth in the United States. The economic outlook is weakest in Europe.
 ''The unity of the G-20 is beginning to fray as economic recovery takes hold at differing rates and divisions emerge on key issues such as fiscal consolidation versus continued stimulus, the timing and content of new capital rules, and the desirability of a bank levy,'' said Daniel M. Price, who was President Bush's personal representative to the G-20.
 Indeed, Mr. Obama cited the agreements reached at last year's G-20 meetings in London and Pittsburgh -- increased government spending, reform of financial systems, a goal of balanced global growth and an avoidance of protectionist trade measures -- in arguing that the G-20 must be ready to step back in if needed. 
 Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a Danish researcher at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said the situation in Europe might not be so dire. He noted that Germany, Europe's largest economy, had proposed phasing in fiscal austerity gradually, that the European Central Bank had shown success in responding to the sovereign-debt crisis and that a new plan to administer stress tests on banks was likely to improve market confidence. 
 But in the short term, at least, Europe's woes have complicated the American desire for a global economy that is more ''balanced'' -- that is, less reliant on debt-financed consumer spending in the United States. 
 The euro's decline means that the renminbi's value has effectively gone up, on a trade-weighted basis, lessening the Chinese rationale for appreciating the currency against the dollar. And the debt crisis has led to lower yields on Treasury securities, making borrowing by the United States government cheaper.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers are building a security fence in Toronto at the site of the Group of 20 meeting scheduled for June 26 and 27. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK BLINCH/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%) ONTARIO, CANADA (91%) CANADA (94%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



522 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: To Help the Little Guy, the Government Proposes New Rules for Big Meatpackers

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The Obama administration proposed new rules on Friday seeking to increase competition and rein in potentially unfair practices by large meatpackers and poultry processors. The move is aimed at helping small livestock and poultry farmers survive in an industry dominated by corporate giants.
 The rules could give farmers and ranchers new leverage in suing meat companies that they believe have treated them unfairly. They would end practices among cattle and hog buyers that may lower prices paid to farmers and feedlot owners. And they would set new protections for poultry farmers, who often must go deeply into debt to build the chicken houses needed to win contracts from processors. 
 ''As this market has become more consolidated and vertically integrated for efficiency's sake it lends itself to unfair practices and practices that are not particularly transparent,'' the agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack, said in an interview. 
 The goal, he said, is to promote ''a fair and more transparent relationship between the folks on the farm and the businesses that are packing and processing what's raised on the farm.'' 
 Mr. Vilsack said the rules could increase the payments farmers receive for their livestock or poultry, but added that those higher costs would not necessarily be passed on to consumers, who might benefit from increased competition. 
 The regulatory move comes as the Agriculture and Justice Departments have been holding a series of public workshops to discuss allegations of anticompetitive behavior in agriculture. 
 The rules apply largely to how the Agriculture Department enforces the Packers and Stockyards Act, a 1921 law governing the livestock and poultry industry. The U.S.D.A. will evaluate public comment before issuing a final set of rules, which could take many months. 
 Groups representing the meat industry criticized the proposed rules.
 ''These rules would require a packer to treat everybody the same regardless of capability, regardless of quality of product,'' said Mark Dopp, a senior vice president and the general counsel of the American Meat Institute, which represents the meatpacking industry. ''We're afraid this is going to stifle the progress and innovation we've seen over the last 20 or 30 years.''
 Richard Lobb, a spokesman for the National Chicken Council, which represents poultry processors, said the new rules would ''open the floodgates to litigation.''
 ''We believe the majority of growers are satisfied with the way the system is set up now,'' he said. ''Clearly there are some who are not but we think they are in the minority and this set of regulations is clearly aimed at that minority.''
 In the past, farmers have been stymied in efforts to sue meat processors for unfair practices as judges have ruled in several cases that they must prove that a packers' actions harm not just individual producers but also stifle competition on a broader scale. 
 In an outline of the proposed rules, the U.S.D.A. said the courts had set an unreasonable standard. It called for ''judicial re-examination'' of the issue in light of specific examples of unfair practices spelled out in the new rules. 
 ''We've been fighting this bear forever and we finally got a breakthrough,'' said Fred Stokes, executive director of the Organization for Competitive Markets, a group that advocates for small farmers and livestock producers. 
 The new rules would also change industry practices.
 They would bar cattle dealers from acting as exclusive buyers for more than one meat packer in order to keep packers from sharing information on pricing, which could lead to collusion to keep prices down.
 They would enhance market transparency by requiring processors to submit to the U.S.D.A. samples of contracts they offer producers. 
 And they address the concerns of many poultry growers that they must go deeply into debt to build poultry houses required by processors. The rules would require that processors give growers contracts that last long enough for them to recoup 80 percent of their capital investment. 
 In describing the consolidation in the livestock industry, the U.S.D.A. said the number of hog farms in the United States had fallen to 71,000 today, from 666,000 in 1980. A hog farmer today is paid on average 25 percent of the retail value of a hog, which is half of what farmers received 30 years ago, the department said. 
 In the cattle industry, the number of farms, ranches and feedlots has dropped to 950,000 from 1.6 million in 1980, according to the department. It said that cattle farmers received 43 percent of the retail value of a steer, compared with 62 percent in 1980. 
 While the trend toward consolidation was clear, ''the difficulty is always to separate what is happening due to efficiency and what is happening due to market power,'' according to Richard Sexton, a professor of agricultural economics at the University of California, Davis. 
 ''There's probably no question that these things that have happened have streamlined the sector, squeezed costs out of it and made it more efficient, but in the process, people get left behind and many of the people getting left behind are the small producers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cattle grouped for branding in South Dakota last month. Tom Vilsack, the agriculture secretary, said the new rules could lead to increased payments for small cattle, hog and poultry farmers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKKEL PATES/THE GRAND FORKS HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (93%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POULTRY PROCESSING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); MEATS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (89%); CHICKEN FARMING (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (88%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



523 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Obama Hopes Burst of Building Will Warm Voters to the Stimulus

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Columbus, Ohio.

 BODY:
The shovels are finally ready. But is anyone paying attention?
 With a flurry of stimulus construction work getting under way about 16 months after the $787 billion package was signed into law, the Obama administration has billed the coming season ''Recovery Summer.'' This week, the administration issued a report on the stepped-up pace of work, rolled out Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to brief reporters on its progress, and President Obama went to Columbus, Ohio, on Friday to laud the 10,000th stimulus-financed highway project.
 For all the talk of ''shovel-ready'' infrastructure projects when the stimulus first passed, construction projects made up a comparatively small slice of the package, and many required considerable administrative spade work -- planning, permitting and contracting -- before actual dirt could be turned. The stimulus initially injected money into the economy mainly through tax cuts and aid to states and individuals. 
 Now that the long-promised ''road work ahead'' is here, in big numbers, the question is whether voters will warm to the stimulus. The stakes for the Obama administration and Democrats are high, with the midterm elections approaching and many voters, Tea Party supporters and otherwise, incensed about spending.
 Stimulus-financed construction is set to explode this summer: 10,700 highway projects should be under way next month, up from just 1,750 last July. States expect to weatherize 82,000 homes this summer -- 27 times the number of homes that were weatherized last summer, when the program got off to a slow start. And there will be 2,828 clean-water projects under construction, a twentyfold increase over last year.
 But with the recovery uneven at best, getting anyone excited about that may be tough. Not to mention that for many Americans, this is shaping up as Oil Spill Summer. So it was perhaps unsurprising that Mr. Biden's stimulus briefing seemed to make more news for his criticism of a Republican congressman who apologized to BP for the fund that the administration demanded of it, than it did for Mr. Biden's talk of more roadwork.
 ''The public's attention span is quite limited,'' said Pete Ruane, the president of the American Road & Transportation Builders Association, an industry group, who credited the stimulus with helping workers as states had cut their road building budgets, and who said construction would peak soon. ''I think people's concerns are more with the overall economy, not with the benefits or the costs of the stimulus program.''
 The stimulus has been credited by many economists with helping the economy grow again and with creating jobs; the Congressional Budget Office, a nonpartisan agency, estimated last month that it had created 1.2 million to 2.8 million jobs so far. But with the unemployment rate remaining stubbornly close to 10 percent -- even worse than what Mr. Obama's economic advisers initially forecast in the absence of a stimulus plan -- the stimulus continues to get mixed reviews in many public opinion polls. Hence the renewed public relations push.
 Visiting Columbus on Friday, Mr. Obama surrounded himself with workers in hard hats and safety vests and recited the litany of signs the White House has taken to mentioning lately as part of its effort to convince Americans that the economic recovery, aided by the stimulus, is helping to boost job growth. ''As my friend Joe Biden, who has done great work on the recovery act, would say, this is a big ... deal,'' the president joked, alluding to Mr. Biden's profanity-peppered line about the importance of the health care bill.
 Republicans have been hammering away at the stimulus. The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, derided the ''Recovery Summer'' campaign in a statement Friday. ''A jobless recovery is a far cry from what Ohioans were promised,'' he said.
 Democrats are hoping that the burst of highly visible construction work in the months leading up to the November elections -- of buildings rising and orange cones giving way to smoother roads and wider bridges -- will reassure voters that they have put the money to good use. 
 There will be 218 federal buildings under construction next month, nearly four times the amount last July, according to the White House tally. California will have 450 stimulus highway projects under way this summer, up from 9 last summer. Roughly 29,244 miles of road will be improved this summer, officials said, up from just 9,185 miles last summer. (During the New Deal, by contrast, the far bigger Works Progress Administration was credited with building or fixing 650,000 miles of roads.)
 By initially comparing the investment in public works projects in the stimulus to the creation of the Interstate System, Mr. Obama may have raised expectations for transformational change too high. Mr. Ruane, of the transportation industry group, said that for all the good the stimulus was doing, in many cases it was simply paying for projects that states could no longer afford to pay for -- dampening the impact. 
 Now industry groups and officials are already wondering about what happens when this burst of money is spent. In Ohio, Mr. Obama spoke of the need to invest more in infrastructure projects in order to compete globally. ''We've got to get serious,'' he said, ''about our infrastructure.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama spoke in Columbus, Ohio, on Friday to commemorate the 10,000th stimulus-financed highway project.
 Mr. Obama greeted workers at the Columbus construction site. He is billing this as ''Recovery Summer.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); JOB CREATION (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



524 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Hoping Tourists Will Flock to Hogwarts (and Spend a Few Galleons)

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES and CATHARINE SKIPP

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- First Harry Potter helped rejuvenate book publishing. Then he powered a boom in family mega-movies. Can the boy wizard now use his global popularity to give a lift to central Florida's $31 billion tourism business? 
 For Universal Orlando, the ailing resort here that opened an elaborate Harry Potter-themed expansion on Friday, and the broader market -- including the rival Walt Disney World -- the expectations are tremendous. And judging from the turnout on opening day, warranted.
By the usual 9 a.m. opening time, there was a six-hour wait just to enter the gates of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, as the 20-acre expansion is called. Hogsmeade, the all-wizard village from J. K. Rowling's books, was gridlocked as Muggles, sweating in 90-degree heat, waited an hour to taste butterbeer. Thirty-five minutes outside Ollivander's Wand Shop -- built tiny on purpose to be authentic to Ms. Rowling's stories -- got you five minutes inside. 
 Still, those who braved opening day came prepared to wait. Blythe and Paige Passantino, sisters from Charlotte, N.C., were among the throng of people who assembled before dawn hoping to be among the first to pass under the sign reading ''Please Respect the Spell Limits'' and soak in the experience. It was ''so much better than I could have imagined it,'' said Paige Passantino, 18.
 Blythe Passantino, 21, followed with a tearful admission of her own: ''I really wanted to live here; it was so much better than our real lives.''
 The recession has hammered theme parks nationwide, but Universal Orlando -- comprising Islands of Adventure, Universal Studios Florida, three hotels and a shopping district -- has suffered more than most. Years of little investment left it increasingly unable to compete with Disney, which dominates the market with four major parks. Even SeaWorld has pulled ahead.
 Attendance in 2009 dropped 10 percent at Universal Studios Florida, to 5.5 million, compared with a year earlier, according to analysts. The newer Islands of Adventure fared even worse, with attendance down 11 percent, to 4.6 million. Combined food, beverage and merchandise sales plummeted nearly 20 percent from 2007 to 2009, according to analysts.
 NBC Universal, which co-owns Universal Orlando with the Blackstone Group, hopes the Wizarding World, built at an estimated cost of $265 million, will raise annual attendance by over 10 percent. (Universal licensed the Harry Potter park rights from Warner Brothers; Wizarding World is based on the visual landscapes of the films that Warner Brothers produced.)
 The potential for souvenir profits is enormous. For the first time, Universal has its must-buy equivalent of Disney's plastic mouse ears: exclusive Potter merchandise. Items include holly-and-phoenix-feather wands -- purchased at Ollivander's, where, just like in the books and films, flowers wilt on command. (More interested in travel than tricks? A Nimbus broomstick sells for $250.)
 No wonder Universal executives can barely contain their excitement. Alice Norsworthy, Universal Orlando's executive vice president for marketing, declared that Wizarding World -- even before opening -- had ''established itself as the most spectacular themed environment in the world.'' 
 The broader Orlando market is betting that Wizarding World's popularity will lift all boats. The number of visitors to the region declined about 5 percent in 2009, according to Gary C. Sain, chief executive of the Orlando Convention and Visitors Bureau. But forecasts call for Harry Potter mania to help drive an increase of 2 percent in 2010 and an additional 3 percent in 2011, he said.
 The region particularly covets international visitors, and Mr. Sain said he expected the global popularity of the Harry Potter franchise -- over 400 million copies in print and about $6 billion in worldwide movie ticket sales -- to prompt tourists from abroad to consider visiting central Florida for the first time.
 The arrival of Wizarding World comes as Disney tries to reduce discounting that it adopted as a result of the recession. Discounts on hotel rooms and food has kept attendance high -- all four of Disney's Orlando parks recorded slight attendance increases last year -- but profit has suffered. Income for Disney's resorts unit sank 25 percent, to $1.4 billion, for the company's 2009 fiscal year.
 Aware that few visits to Orlando are complete without a day at one of its parks, Disney executives say the company will benefit from Universal's blockbuster promotional campaign for Wizarding World. Advertising for the attraction has included a Super Bowl commercial and a 30-minute infomercial on NBC.
 For its part, Warner is counting on Wizarding World to help keep the Harry Potter franchise vibrant as it winds down at the multiplex. ''It's very possible that there will be a generation of kids who will experience Harry Potter for the first time in this park,'' said Diane Nelson, president of DC Entertainment and the Warner executive who manages the Potter brand.
 Universal had been pursuing the Potter theme-park rights since 2002, when creative executives from Universal presented ideas to Warner on a Hollywood soundstage. Warner and Ms. Rowling went with Universal after a flirtation with Disney, in part because they wanted to maintain more control. 
 Everything from the snow on Hogsmeade's roofs to the packaging on merchandise needed Warner's approval -- some 10,000 submissions, according to Brad Globe, president of Warner Brothers Consumer Products.
 ''Sometimes you can just build a great ride and the rest is O.K. -- not with these fans,'' Mr. Globe said.
 Ms. Rowling and art directors from the films have been deeply involved with Wizarding World's creation. Universal had to redo parts of the rock base for Hogwarts, the castle where Harry Potter and friends attend school, because the Warner team thought it was unrealistic. For its part, Universal insisted that there could be no (fake) rats in the Three Broomsticks pub. Ms. Rowling tasted potential butterbeer recipes. 
 (One person who was not involved: Steven Spielberg, who has a spectacularly rich consulting contract with Universal. Mr. Spielberg, who helped to design the Jurassic Park ride and others, gets about 2 percent of gross receipts from Universal's Florida and Japan parks in perpetuity.)
 Universal has had trouble with some of its big openings. The 1990 introduction of Universal Studios Florida was marked by malfunctioning attractions and fuming customers; Islands of Adventure opened to smoother results but had flaws nonetheless.
 None of that was on display on Friday. One in 10 visitors dressed in some manner of Hogwarts attire. Aaron Gust, 20, was in full Hufflepuff regalia -- right down to the school tie -- and had donned an invisibility cloak. Paige Passantino was dressed as Luna Lovegood, whom she described as ''the eccentric Ravenclaw.''
 Deborah Kolleya, 48, had come from Birmingham, Ala., with her family to see Wizarding World and, she noted, nothing else in the area. Rather than just watching and reading, ''we wanted to actually experience the magic,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Universal Orlando's Harry Potter attraction. Michael Gambon, left, played Dumbledore, and Daniel Radcliffe was Harry Potter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (B1)
Thousands of people lined up Friday to be among the first to see the Wizarding World attraction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RED HUBER/ORLANDO SENTINEL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Visitors who waited 35 minutes outside Ollivander's Wand Shop could spend five minutes inside trying out spells. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT AUDETTE/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); RETAIL SALES (62%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL STUDIOS FLORIDA INC (58%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (51%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (53%); DIS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (73%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (95%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



525 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: In California, Facing Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
In the closing days of the Republican primary in California, Meg Whitman vowed to get tough on illegal immigrants, and in a radio commercial even brought out a big gun, a former governor, Pete Wilson. He is known for his advocacy of Proposition 187, a 1994 initiative that sought to deny public services to illegal immigrants. It was blocked by a federal court, but remains a sore point with Latino voters. Now, after winning the primary, Ms. Whitman reveals her opposition to the proposal in new Spanish-language television commercials, and embraces concerns dear to Latinos. 
 THE SCRIPT The radio ad in the primary, ''Tough as Nails,'' has Ms. Whitman speaking, before Mr. Wilson jumps in. 
 Whitman: Don't be fooled by misleading ads, my position on immigration is crystal clear. Illegal immigrants are just that, illegal. I am 100 percent against amnesty for illegal immigrants. Period. As governor, I will crack down on so-called sanctuary cities like San Francisco who thumb their nose at our laws. Illegal immigrants should not expect benefits from the State of California. No driver's license and no admission to state-funded institutions of higher education. And I'll create an economic fence to crack down on employers who break the law by using illegal labor.
 Wilson: This is former Gov. Pete Wilson. I know how important it is to stop illegal immigration, and I know Meg Whitman. Meg will be tough as nails on illegal immigration. She'll fight to secure our border and go after sanctuary cities. Please join me in supporting Meg Whitman for governor.
 The TV ad, a ''Different Kind,'' (as translated by the campaign) plays over a montage of images of a smiling, cheerful Ms. Whitman interacting with Latinos.
 Announcer: Meg Whitman is a different kind of candidate. She is a business leader ready to fix Sacramento, ready to create more jobs and better schools in California. She respects our community. She is the Republican who opposes the Arizona law and opposed Proposition 187.
 She means real change. She has a specific plan for a new California. With more jobs, better schools and less bureaucracy.
 She includes all of us. Meet Meg Whitman. A different kind of candidate, and the governor California needs.
 ON THE SCREEN A montage of video of Ms. Whitman chatting and smiling with Latinos.
 ACCURACY It is a matter of dispute whether Ms. Whitman's position on illegal immigration is ''crystal clear.'' The only thing clear is the ads were aimed at different audiences. California already bars driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, and prohibiting illegal immigrants from attending state-funded colleges is likely to be a tough sell to the Democrat-controlled Legislature. As for the new ad, Ms. Whitman did speak out against the new Arizona law, which gives local police authority to seek the deportation of illegal immigrants, but she did not mention that position in any primary ads. When Proposition 187 was passed, Ms. Whitman was not living in California but she said last year that she would have voted against it.
 SHELF LIFE The campaign of Jerry Brown, her Democratic opponent, is already crying hypocrisy, but Ms. Whitman's camp says she has long reached out to Latino voters. Winning them over is key; they are about one-fifth of the electorate and tend to vote Democratic, so Ms. Whitman needs to capture a large share of that vote to prevail. It is safe to say Mr. Wilson will probably not be appearing in any ads aimed at them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); AMNESTY (73%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); DRIVERS LICENSES (66%); POLICE FORCES (61%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



526 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Wishing Will Make It So

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Americans have always raised their children to believe in the power of the dream. This is probably why hundreds of thousands of young people are certain they are destined to become the American Idol. Or Next Top Model. Or marry a Jonas Brother.
 A few of these dreamers grew up to run oil companies. They believed with all the power of their fierce, tiny hearts that they could drill farther and farther down into the ocean without ever having a really big accident. We learned that from the oil C.E.O.'s who trotted over to the Capitol recently and testified that their plan for handling a huge deep-water spill is not to have a huge deep-water spill. 
 Their official, on-paper contingency plans were completely impractical. Yet the dreaded Minerals Management Service, which oversees oil drilling, rubber-stamped them. This is because the M.M.S. is bad and we hate it. Also possibly because of a Congress-passed rule that gives the agency, which has 60 inspectors overseeing nearly 4,000 drilling platforms, only 30 days review time. 
 We now know that as things stand, no amount of will and work can contain a deep-water spill once it happens. So President Obama suspended drilling for up to six months so we can get a handle on this stupendous, terrifying problem.
 Politicians were outraged. Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi came out foursquare against the suspension because, as he argued succinctly: ''This is the first time anything vaguely like this has ever happened.'' Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana said the moratorium could cause ''even more economic damage than the spill itself,'' although she did add that ''we have to make sure that these 33 floating rigs that drill in deep water ... are safe.''
 Which they will be. If you believe hard enough, things will work out. Also, Justin Bieber may ask you to the prom.
 Right now, the legal limit on an oil company's responsibility for economic damage done by a spill is $75 million, which is obviously not remotely enough. But a bill to eliminate the cap is being stalled in the Senate by members who argue that it will hurt smaller oil companies who cannot afford to cover that kind of cost. 
 ''If you have it too high, you are going to be singling out BP and the other four largest majors and the nationalized companies, such as China and Venezuela, and shutting out the independent producers,'' said Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma.
 In other words, it is wrong to limit deep-water drilling opportunities to companies that can afford to pay restitution if they screw up. Because there will be no more screwing up. We have decided.
 Representative Joe Barton, a Republican of Texas, has a crush on the oil industry of a size that's seldom been equaled outside of ''High School Musical.'' Last year in a committee hearing, Barton attempted to show up Energy Secretary Steven Chu by suddenly asking him to explain, as briefly as possible, ''How did all the oil and gas get to Alaska and under the Arctic ocean?''
 While the startled Chu started to talk about shifting tectonic plates, Barton beamed smugly. ''I seem to have baffled the Energy Sec with basic question: where does oil come from?'' he twittered.
 This week, Barton became the star of another hearing, which was convened to grill Tony Hayward, the chief executive of BP. The rosy-cheeked Englishman had the kind of dopey sullenness you might find in an underachieving student at the Hogwarts detention room. But Barton seemed smitten, and he apologized to BP for the president's ''shakedown'' of the company for a $20 billion fund to compensate the people of the gulf for the effects of the spill. This is perhaps not the stupidest remark any elected official has ever blurted out, but possibly the dumbest that ever came in the form of a prepared statement.
 Every Democrat in Washington did the happy dance. The party could not point out too often that if the Republicans took control of the House, Barton would be leader of the House energy committee. 
 The House Republican leadership was terrified that people would sense Barton wasn't the only member of the party who loathed the president's BP coup. Using all the strong-arm tactics they failed to employ with the congressman who yelled ''You lie!'' during the State of the Union address, they pried a sort of retraction out of Barton.
 The first effort fell short. But, finally, the office of the minority leader, John Boehner, sent forth a version in which Barton apologized for the apology, as well as for the use of the term ''shakedown.'' Which is kind of funny because ''shakedown'' is exactly the word that the Republican Study Committee used to denounce Obama's deal right after it was announced.
 But the Republican leadership has a dream that they never agreed with anything that Barton said. They hatehatehate BP. Also, they are hoping that Miley Cyrus moves to their hometown and becomes their best friend. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); NATIONALIZATION (71%); POLITICS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (77%); MARY LANDRIEU (51%); JOE BARTON (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); HALEY BARBOUR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



527 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: The Thrill Is Gone

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
President Obama's relationship with America, like many a young marriage, is growing sour.
 That's my surmise after reviewing recent polling and watching the carping that followed his Oval Office speech (which I thought was just fine, by the way). 
 It is becoming increasingly apparent that the magic has drained away. Even among his most ardent supporters, there now exists a certain frustration and disillusionment -- not necessarily in the execution of his duties, but in his inability to seize moments, chart a course and navigate the choppy waters of public opinion. 
 What's left for many is a big plume of disappointment and sadness lurking just beneath the surface.
 Desperate to escape eight-years of an abusive relationship with a reckless cowboy and scared by a calculating John McCain who chose a feckless running mate, America was charmed by Obama's supernal speeches and inspired by his vision of a happier ever after. 
 But once the marriage was official, reality set in and Obama tried to lower expectations. Life would not be lit by the soft glow of an eternal sunrise. Change would come slowly; pain would be felt presently; things would get worse before they got better. 
 In addition, he had to make tough choices (and not always the right ones) to steer us out of our darkest hour and secure a better future. He wasn't always elegant in method or clear in message, and that allowed the more cynical side of America to find a footing and feed its fear. 
 This has left many on the left duking it out in a death match of finger-pointing, back-biting and navel-gazing. They have gone from applauding to defending, a turn many secretly resent and increasingly reject. A USA Today/Gallup poll released earlier this week found that 73 percent of Democrats thought that the president had not been tough enough in dealing with BP in regards to the oil spill. That was the same as the percentage of Republicans who thought so. 
 So this is where the rubber meets the road, for Obama and the country. Wooing and being wooed was the fun part. But everyone knows that maintaining a healthy and positive relationship always requires work.
 The first step is acknowledgement: There is blame on both sides. 
 On one side is America -- fickle and excitable, hotheaded and prone to overreaction, easily frightened and in constant need of reassurance.
 On the other side stands Obama -- solid and sober, rooted in the belief that his way is the right way and in no need of alteration. He's the emotionally maimed type who lights up when he's stroked and adored but shuts down in the face of acrimony. Other people's anxieties are dismissed as irrational and unworthy of engagement or empathy. He seems quite comfortable with this aspect of his personality, even if few others are, and shows little desire to change it. It's the height of irony: the presumed transformative president is stymied by his own unwillingness to be transformed. He would rather sacrifice the relationship than be altered by it.
 Add to this tension the fact that conservative Blue Dog Democrats are doing everything they can to keep their jobs and Republicans are doing everything they can to make Obama lose his, and it only aggravates the situation.
 As NPR's Ron Elving wrote about a recent NPR poll that held a dire prediction for the Democrats in November: ''The House Democratic majority is, as always, a struggle between the 'sitting pretty' faction that's safe (this year as always) and the more fragile 'scaredy cat' faction that could be carried off by even the gentlest of anti-incumbent breezes.'' The ''scaredy cats'' are the Blue Dogs.
 In the Senate, Democrats are struggling to get Republicans to play ball. For instance, a Gallup poll released this week found that about 60 percent of Americans approve of Congress passing new legislation this year that would increase spending in order to create jobs and stimulate the economy. However, the same day that the president wrestled $20 billion from BP for a fund to be used to compensate those affected by the oil spill, Senate Democrats trimmed nearly $20 billion from the already-trimmed jobs bill in an effort to woo Republicans. Didn't work. On Thursday, the Senate voted to block the bill. 
 The next step is compromise. Both sides will have to give a little. 
 America has to grow up and calm down. Expectations must be better managed. On balance, this president is doing a good job -- not perfect, but good -- particularly in light of the incredible mess he inherited. The Web site PolitiFact.com is tracking more than 500 promises Obama made on the campaign trail. Of the 168 promises where action has been completed, they judge Obama to have broken only 19. That's not bad, and it must be acknowledged. We have to stop waiting for him to be great and allow him to be good. 
 For Obama's part, he needs to forget about changing the culture and climate of American politics. That's a lost cause. The Republicans and their Tea Party stepchildren are united in their thirst for his demise. Furthermore, a May Gallup report stated that Obama's ''first-year ratings were the most polarized for a president in Gallup history,'' and his ''approval ratings have become slightly more polarized thus far in his second year.'' The U.S.S. Harmony has sailed. The president should instead re-evaluate the composition of his inner circle (which could use a shake-up) and the constitution of his inner self (which could use a wake-up). Allowing himself space to grow and change does not have to undermine his basic view of himself. There is a lot of space between a caricature and a man of character.
 In other words, the president must accept the basic fact that he, as the agent of change, must himself be open to change. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: On the Skids: Obama job approval, weekly averages. (Source: Gallup) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



528 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Benefits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I agree with many of the points made in ''The Unemployed Held Hostage'' (editorial, June 15). The Senate must extend federal unemployment benefits as emergency spending. The taxation of carried interest needs to be addressed. The large differential between the capital gains rate and top ordinary income rates has resulted in managers of investment service partnerships not paying their fair share of taxes on profits. 
 But our economy is still recovering, and we should not slow growth by punishing those who take risk by investing in affordable housing and new technology. We sought changes out of a desire not to hamper investment and job creation. The recent solution unveiled by the Finance Committee chairman, Max Baucus, provides a fair compromise on a complicated issue. The Senate should pass this legislation without further delay.
 John Kerry U.S. Senator from Massachusetts Washington, June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (57%); MAX BAUCUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



529 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Tests That Induce Educators to Cheat

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your June 18 editorial about test-tampering, ''That Cheats the Kids,'' misses the point about high-stakes testing -- it inevitably distorts the results.
 Testing is fine as long as it has no high-stakes results; test scores along with other information help us know what reforms are working, as the editorial points out. But once these tests are linked to high-stakes consequences, like teacher pay, tenure or the closing of schools, the results are no longer dependable for diagnostic purposes, either for schools or individual students.
 This phenomenon has more recently been borne out by the rapid state test score inflation that has occurred throughout the nation since No Child Left Behind was instituted, with the results on state exams increasingly diverging from the more reliable results of the no-stakes national exams, the National Assessment of Educational Progress. 
 The children who are harmed the most are those that your editorial rightly points out need the most help -- poor and minority children, who are being cheated of a quality education, because their schools have not improved significantly despite the higher test scores that they may receive.
 Leonie Haimson Executive Director, Class Size Matters New York, June 18, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Pressed to Show Progress, Educators Tamper With Test Scores'' (''Cheat Sheet'' series, front page, June 11):
 Although the intense pressures on teachers don't justify cheating, they certainly make it understandable. What would you do if your professional life and livelihood depended on students' test scores, and the little demons wouldn't come to school regularly, do their homework or even pay attention in class?
 The only moral course of action left in these twisted times of test scores as king is nonviolent resistance on a grand scale: the faculties of entire schools and districts should teach what is best for their students and not waste time on test prep; refuse merit pay; let parents know that tests are not the true measure of their children's knowledge; and stand together against all unfair dismissals of their colleagues.
 Joanne Yatvin Portland, Ore., June 12, 2010
 The writer is a former public school teacher, principal and district superintendent who now teaches at the Graduate School of Education at Portland State University.
 To the Editor:
 I'm confident that any school I attended (in the 1960s) would have passed the bar set for standardized achievement tests. But many of those teachers were awful. Our neighborhood Facebook page describes one as ''a sadist'' and another was happy only if she made someone cry. Forty years later, we're still scarred.
 They instilled fear, not confidence and a love of learning. According to No Child Left Behind, they would have been the masters of the profession.
 That is scary.
 Phyllis Brust Flossmoor, Ill., June 13, 2010
 To the Editor:
 It is perhaps true that no form of academic cheating ''may be as startling as educators tampering with children's standardized tests,'' since a much more serious form of academic cheating that is being perpetrated in our schools almost daily does not seem to startle anyone.
 Schools obeying the governmental mandates that their students do well in their standardized tests regularly ''cheat'' our children out of their education because the schools' staff members see to it that much class time is spent on test preparation drills and teaching the basic reading and mathematics skills that make up most of these tests, while they marginalize or eliminate altogether other components of the rich and varied prescribed curriculums.
 One might ask: What does it profit our students if they obtain high reading and mathematics scores but never gain the pleasures of learning?
 Bernard Gordon Brooklyn, June 13, 2010
 The writer is a former English teacher and middle school assistant principal, and a former vice president of the New York City Council of School Supervisors and Administrators.
 To the Editor:
 Your article draws much-needed attention to the unintended consequences of policies that seek to promote better performance and greater accountability. As more and more educational decisions are made in connection with student performance on standardized tests -- who gets tenure, who earns bonuses, who's laid off first -- incidents of cheating will balloon. This phenomenon is so well known in academia that it even has its own name: Campbell's Law.
 In a memorable 1976 paper, Donald T. Campbell explained that ''the more any quantitative social indicator is used for social decision making, the more subject it will be to corruption pressures and the more apt it will be to distort and corrupt the social processes it is intended to monitor.''
 This should give Congress pause as it ponders the reauthorization of No Child Left Behind, which has at its heart standardized testing.
 Justin Snider New York, June 11, 2010
 The writer teaches undergraduate writing at Columbia University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); GRADE INFLATION (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); MERIT PAY (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); DISMISSALS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



530 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Oprah Winfrey Opts for Her Own Private Financial Adviser

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Oprah Winfrey has been a pioneer in television, her signal achievement being her syndicated talk show as the basis for a media empire. But when it comes to overseeing her vast personal wealth, Ms. Winfrey recently made a choice that harks back to a different age: opting to have her fortune managed by what is known as a family office. 
 Last month, she hired Peter Adamson, a chief investment officer who had previously overseen the investments for the family office of Eli Broad, the founder of KB Home and SunAmerica, to manage her holdings, estimated at more than $2 billion. The hiring of Mr. Adamson was big news in this rarefied world, but it surely left many of Ms. Winfrey's fans wondering what, exactly, she had done. 
 Traditionally, a family office was a private entity meant to serve all the personal and financial needs of one wealthy person. The early model was what John D. Rockefeller established in 1882 to manage his family's wealth but also to maintain a sense of family cohesion. 
 But what Ms. Winfrey is doing goes against current trends. Like everyone else in the downturn, the very wealthy lost money, but they also became more aware of expenses. As a result, many family offices, which cost millions if not tens of millions of dollars annually to run, are looking to enter partnerships or merge with other family offices to save on operating costs and increase the range of expertise of the people managing their fortunes. 
 John Benevides, president of the Family Office Exchange, an adviser to wealthy families, estimated that a third of the 2,500 to 3,000 family offices in the United States were contemplating some change. And 22 percent were considering reducing what the family office did or closing it, he said. 
 So what is the lure of a family office for someone like Ms. Winfrey? In two words, privacy and control. 
 ''Sometimes they care less about the economics than control,'' said Robert C. Elliott, senior managing director at Bessemer Trust, which was founded in 1907 to manage the Phipps family fortune. The founder, Henry Phipps, was Andrew Carnegie's partner in the Carnegie Steel Company. 
 Generally, someone needs at least $500 million to set up a fully functioning family office. This would include investment, reporting and accounting services as well as general lifestyle management, such as maintaining homes, yachts and private planes. The height of the bar to justify the costs of a family office explains why many single-family offices want to merge.
 Mr. Elliott said Bessemer, which began managing money for other families in 1975, took in two family offices so far this year and expected to bring in two more soon. ''Investment returns are driving it,'' he said. Maria Elena Lagomasino, chief executive of GenSpring Family Offices, said that five years ago families were happy to stay separate and never talked about giving up their independence. But that is no longer the case. 
 ''The way it comes out is, 'I'd like to rethink what we're doing and maybe there's a better way, and I feel that you're going to be around,' '' she said. ''I wasn't having those conversations at all two years ago. We're having a lot of them today.''
 Yet even if they did not merge their family offices, many wealthy families worried this year that their privacy could be breached in a different way. Family offices have long received special exemptions from the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the offices manage billions of dollars, they have not been subject to the same requirements that a money management firm would be. This is because they have been deemed private advisers, acting on behalf of a family, not public ones working for various clients.
 In December, the House of Representatives voted to end the exemption for family offices in its version of the financial overhaul bill.The Senate version maintained it. Still, what bothers the families is not the reporting requirements or the costs of complying with S.E.C. rules but the public disclosures that come with them. ''The loss of confidentiality is what upsets our clients,'' said David Guin, head of the United States securities group at Withers Bergman L.L.P. ''One of the things that goes on the investment adviser form, which is publicly available on the S.E.C. Web site, is the amount of assets under management. Anyone could find out what the family is worth -- it would include ownership and control and trading strategies.''
 Mr. Guin said he hoped the exemption would remain as the House and Senate bills were reconciled. If it does not, one way a family office could retain a level of privacy would be to join with a multifamily office, which reports on the assets of many families bundled together, he said. 
 In many ways, this consolidation of family offices is a generational issue. People with family offices like Ms. Winfrey, Bill Gates and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York are the ones who created the wealth, just as Rockefeller and Phipps did. Yet as the Phipps did with Bessemer Trust, the Rockefellers opened their family office. It has been managing other wealthy people's money since 1980. 
 Family offices are lobbying in one area that affects everyday Americans. The leaders of 10 family offices signed on to the Fiduciary Statement, which advocates requiring all people calling themselves advisers to put their clients' best interests first. Currently, an adviser at a brokerage is bound by the looser suitability standard. The differing standards are also part of the financial overhaul legislation. 
 ''We'd like everyone to have our standard, which is biased toward us, but it's troubling otherwise,'' said Ed Lazar, a signatory and the president of the Threshold Group, which oversees the fortunes of the Russell family of Russell indexes and the Grace family of Bethlehem Steel. ''We want everyone to have the same standard and sit on the same side of the table.''
 And having that unconflicted advice is at the heart of what Ms. Winfrey or any family would want.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); FAMILY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (64%)

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (57%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (94%); ELI BROAD (55%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



531 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Tricky Balance For Politicians From Oil States

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The outburst by Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas in support of BP underscored the potential peril for lawmakers forced to respond to crises involving industries vital to their regions, and whose bountiful donations finance their political campaigns.
 Democrats continued to make use of Mr. Barton's apology to BP, using it to portray Republicans as beholden to big oil. Mr. Barton, the senior Republican on the Energy and Commerce Committee, worked as a consultant to Atlantic Richfield Oil and Gas Company before being elected to Congress. He has long been one of the top beneficiaries of campaign donations from big energy companies, cornerstones of the Texas economy.
 But in going after Republicans, the Democrats' attacks gloss over a more complicated picture.
 The largest beneficiary of campaign donations from BP in the 2008 election cycle, for instance, was President Obama, who took in $77,000 from company executives. This year, Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas and chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, leads all candidates with $286,000 in donations from oil and gas companies. 
 And while Democrats have pounced on Mr. Barton for accusing Mr. Obama of conducting a ''shakedown'' by demanding that BP set up a $20 billion fund for oil spill claims, a number of Democratic lawmakers -- especially those from oil-producing Gulf states -- have struggled to balance their criticism of BP with support for the industry.
 Officials like Senator Mary L. Landrieu and Representative Charlie Melancon, both Democrats of Louisiana, have demanded accountability for BP and reparations for individuals and businesses who may face financial catastrophe. But they have also fought to lift the moratorium on offshore drilling imposed by the Obama administration after the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion, saying it is crippling the local economy.
 ''Fifty-seven days ago this country was using 20 million barrels of oil a day,'' Ms. Landrieu said on the Senate floor this week, responding to a speech by Mr. Obama from the Oval Office. ''Today, 57 days later, 11 lives lost, the rig at the bottom of the ocean, we are still using 20 million barrels a day. The president did not say to people last night to park their cars and walk to work.''
 Ms. Landrieu continued, ''We have to understand we have to continue to drill for oil and gas.''
 Both Ms. Landrieu and Mr. Melancon, who is running for a Senate seat, receive substantial donations from the oil and gas industry, which is hardly surprising given the industry's big presence in Louisiana. For her campaigns, Ms. Landrieu has taken in $751,000 since 1996, while Mr. Melancon has received $312,000 since 2004.
 A day after infuriating even his own party's leaders with his remarks, Mr. Barton would not agree to an interview. But a Barton spokeswoman said it was similarly no surprise that a representative from Texas with a senior job on the Energy and Commerce Committee would be the beneficiary of oil and gas companies.
 ''Joe Barton gets oil money and energy money, well, damn straight,'' said the spokeswoman, Lisa Miller. ''It probably doesn't come as a shock to anybody that Texas congressmen, Democrats and Republicans, receive energy money. But how he feels about BP is not related obviously to his campaign contributions because he is extremely critical of BP.''
 Ms. Miller pointed out that Mr. Barton had a big role in Congressional inquiries into a 2006 BP oil spill in Alaska and a 2005 explosion at a BP refinery in Texas that killed 15 workers. Ms. Miller said that hearings led by Mr. Barton contributed to the forced retirement of BP's chief executive, John Browne. He was replaced by Tony Hayward, the C.E.O. Mr. Barton apologized to on Thursday.
 Mr. Barton was also critical in obtaining major tax breaks for the oil industry in 2004. He has received $1.4 million since the 1990 cycle from individuals and political action committees in the oil and gas industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
 The nuances of big oil's relationship to Washington was immaterial to Democrats who intensified the onslaught that began on Thursday after Mr. Barton's apology, and his subsequent apology for the apology.
 Besides painting Republicans as defenders of big oil, Democrats used Mr. Barton's comments to deflect attention, if briefly, from the Obama administration's difficulties in managing the response to the huge oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
 ''If the G.O.P. wins back the House, Barton is the guy who could be in charge of regulating the oil industry,'' the Democratic National Committee wrote in a fund-raising pitch. ''We're whipping together an ad as fast as possible to make sure voters know exactly whose side Barton and the G.O.P. are on and to demand they stop apologizing to big oil, but we need your help to get it on the air.''
 In a sign of the political sensitivity around the oil spill, Republicans joined in criticizing Mr. Barton. Representative Jo Bonner, Republican of Alabama, called on Mr. Barton to resign his committee post on Friday, joining Representative Jeff Miller, Republican of Florida.
 The tightrope walk faced by elected officials from oil and gas states is similar to the New York delegation's struggles when it comes to legislation to regulate Wall Street banks, or the New Jersey delegation's sensitivity on legislation related to the pharmaceutical industry.
 ''You've got this conflict for these folks where they acknowledge the spill is a problem but, with the significant support they get from the industry, are a heck of a lot more reluctant to take aggressive legislative action against the company,'' said Tyson Slocum, who runs the energy program at Public Citizen, a political research and advocacy group.
 Besides Ms. Landrieu and Mr. Barton, lawmakers from big energy states include Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana; Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma; and Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska.
 Ms. Murkowski, who has received $434,000 from the industry since 2002 and whose state economy is particularly linked to the industry, last month blocked the Senate from considering a measure that would raise the liability limit for an oil company's legal exposure to $10 billion from $75 million, saying it could hurt smaller companies and produce ''unintended consequences.''
 For the last decade, the oil industry has been one of the most powerful lobbying constituencies in Washington. It has spent nearly a billion dollars on federal lobbying since 1998, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, making it the sixth-biggest industry in terms of expenditures.
 In the current election cycle, the oil and gas industry has contributed $12.8 million to Congressional candidates, with 71 percent of it going to Republicans.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about BP's political connections described incorrectly the more than $77,000 in contributions that President Obama received in the 2008 election cycle from BP-related donors. All of the contributions came from BP employees; Mr. Obama did not receive any money from BP's political action committee in the presidential campaign. (He did receive $1,000 from the company's P.A.C. in his 2004 Senate campaign.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two G.O.P. colleagues have asked Representative Joe Barton to give up his energy committee post. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); BP GULF SPILL CLAIMS (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); OIL SPILLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MARY LANDRIEU (79%); JOE BARTON (79%); CHARLIE MELANCON (78%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010



532 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 REFUGEES BEGIN RETURNING TO KYRGYZSTAN, AND HORRORS
 Uzbek women and children began returning to Kyrgyzstan from Uzbekistan. But they returned to an altered nation: destroyed homes guarded by the men they left behind in barricaded Uzbek enclaves, still seething at the government and ethnic Kyrgyz neighbors. PAGE A4
 As violence threatened to break Kyrgyzstan apart, its citizens saw their hopes for an international intervention fade. The United States and Russia seem reluctant to get involved, despite their interest in the region. Diplomatic Memo by Ellen Barry. PAGE A4 
 20 ARE KILLED IN IRAQ
 Fighters ambushed an Iraqi Army checkpoint near the Syrian border, an attack that punctuated a violent day across Iraq in which more than 20 people were killed. The bloody day showed that the low-grade insurgency still simmers amid political uncertainty. PAGE A4 
 ISRAELI INQUIRY IS CRITICIZED
 The panel announced by Israel to investigate the deadly assault on a flotilla seeking to run the Gaza blockade lacks international weight, Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations said. Mr. Ban had proposed a four- or five-member independent panel. PAGE A5 
 CASE IN CHILE STIRS CONCERNS
 A Pakistani terrorism suspect in Chile is at the center of a case that has stirred concerns among Chileans about racial profiling by the United States and the response by the Chilean authorities. PAGE A7 
 IRAN CALLS SANCTIONS ILLEGAL
 The top security body in Iran condemned as illegal sanctions imposed on Iran by the United Nations, the United States and the European Union, and warned that it would respond to any measures that threatened its national security. PAGE A7 
 National
 U.S. PLANS LAWSUIT AGAINST ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW
 The Obama administration has decided to file suit to strike down a new Arizona law aimed at deporting illegal immigrants, thrusting itself into the fierce national debate over how the United States should enforce immigration policies. PAGE A8
 SCHOOL CONTRADICTS NOMINEE
 A leader of the church in upstate New York where Representative Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, the Republican nominee for the Senate seat formerly held by President Obama, claims he worked as a nursery school teacher said that he had overstated his role there. PAGE A11 
 SENATE PASSES 'DOC FIX'
 The Senate approved a six-month plan to prevent a steep cut in doctors' fees paid by Medicare. The $6.4 billion measure would reverse a 21 percent cut in physician payments that might have motivated some doctors to turn away patients covered by Medicare. PAGE A12 
 EXECUTION BY FIRING SQUAD
 A double murderer in Utah, Ronnie Lee Gardner, was executed by firing squad after last-minute court appeals failed. It was the third firing squad execution in the United States -- all of them in Utah -- since the death penalty was restored in 1976 by the Supreme Court. PAGE A12 
 New York
 STATE LEADERS SUPPORT INCREASE IN CIGARETTE TAX
 Cigarette taxes in New York would jump by $1.60 a pack under a tentative deal between Gov. David A. Paterson and legislative leaders, giving New York the highest state cigarette taxes in the nation. The proposal would also substantially raise the wholesale taxes on other tobacco products. PAGE A14 
 Cherishing Rats in the Subway A14 
 Business
 CHINA HAS INDIRECT STAKE IN U.S. REACTOR FUEL MAKER
 A company in Hong Kong that is partly owned by the Chinese government has quietly purchased a 5.1 percent stake in the only American-owned provider of enriched uranium for use in civilian nuclear reactors. PAGE B1 
 HARRY POTTER ATTRACTION
 By 9 a.m. there was a six-hour wait just to enter the gates of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, Universal Orlando's new 20-acre expansion. The industry is hoping the boy wizard can lift central Florida's $31 billion tourism business. PAGE B1
 HONDA TALKS IN CHINA END
 Wage negotiations between workers and managers at a Honda auto parts factory in Zhongshan, China, ended with the company's final offer of a pay increase that was substantially less than employees had been seeking, a worker involved in the discussions said. PAGE B2 
 RUSSIA WOOS FOREIGN MONEY
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev set out to woo overseas investors at Russia's largest foreign investment forum, a sharp contrast to previous years. Mr. Medvedev described in the most detail yet an emerging policy to diversify Russia's economy away from oil. PAGE B2 
 Sports
 SERBIA POKES A HOLE IN GERMAN INVINCIBILITY
 A week ago Germany was the power at this World Cup, having pounded Australia to submission. Serbia was nobody's favorite to advance out of the group stage. But in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, Serbia beat Germany, 1-0. And now, Group D, which Germany was expected to dominate, is wide open. PAGE D4
 Mickelson Charges at U.S. Open D1
 Arts
 CREATIVE TYPES LEARNING TO BE BUSINESS-MINDED
 This month, artists can attend a class paid for by the City of New York intended to help people who like to color outside the lines learn how to draw up business plans and budgets, and make a sales pitch. PAGE C1
 A Household of Thieves on ABC C1 
 Marc Anthony Relives the 70s C1 
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A21 
 Online
 VIDEO State attorneys general and consumer watchdog groups say the profits of companies offering relief to Americans in debt often only add to their woes.
 nytimes.com/businessday

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); LITIGATION (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); TERRORISM (72%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); ARMIES (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); APPROVALS (67%); RACE & RACISM (66%); APPEALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); MURDER (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (66%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) KYRGYZSTAN (96%); UZBEKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010



533 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Costs Surging For Freddie Mac And Fannie Mae

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
CASA GRANDE, Ariz. -- Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac took over a foreclosed home roughly every 90 seconds during the first three months of the year. They owned 163,828 houses at the end of March, a virtual city with more houses than Seattle. The mortgage finance companies, created by Congress to help Americans buy homes, have become two of the nation's largest landlords.
 Bill Bridwell, a real estate agent in the desert south of Phoenix, is among the thousands of agents hired nationwide by the companies to sell those foreclosures, recouping some of the money that borrowers failed to repay. In a good week, he sells 20 homes and Fannie sends another 20 listings his way.
 ''We're all working for the government now,'' said Mr. Bridwell on a recent sun-baked morning, steering a Hummer through subdivisions laid out like circuit boards on the desert floor. 
 For all the focus on the historic federal rescue of the banking industry, it is the government's decision to seize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in September 2008 that is likely to cost taxpayers the most money. So far the tab stands at $145.9 billion, and it grows with every foreclosure of a three-bedroom home with a two-car garage one hour from Phoenix. The Congressional Budget Office predicts that the final bill could reach $389 billion. 
 Fannie and Freddie increased American home ownership over the last half-century by persuading investors to provide money for mortgage loans. The sales pitch amounted to a money-back guarantee: If borrowers defaulted, the companies promised to repay the investors.
 Rather than actually making loans, the two companies -- Fannie older and larger, Freddie created to provide competition -- bought loans from banks and other originators, providing money for more lending and helping to hold down interest rates.
 ''Our business is the American dream of home ownership,'' Fannie Mae declared in its mission statement, and in 2001 the company set a target of helping to create six million new homeowners by 2014. Here in Arizona, during a housing boom fueled by cheap land, cheap money and population growth, Fannie Mae executives trumpeted that the company would invest $15 billion to help families buy homes. 
 As it turns out, Fannie and Freddie increasingly were channeling money into loans that borrowers could not afford. As defaults mounted, the companies quickly ran low on money to honor their guarantees. The federal government, fearing that investors would stop providing money for new loans, placed the companies in conservatorship and took a 79.9 percent ownership stake, adding its own guarantee that investors would be repaid.
 The huge and continually rising cost of that decision has spurred national debate about federal subsidies for mortgage lending. Republicans want to sever ties with Fannie and Freddie once the crisis abates. The Obama administration and Congressional Democrats have insisted on postponing the argument until after the midterm elections.
 In the meantime, Fannie and Freddie are, at public expense, removing owners who cannot afford their homes, reselling the houses at much lower prices and financing mortgage loans for the new owners.
 The two companies together accounted for 17 percent of real estate sales in Arizona during the first four months of the year, almost three times their share of the market during the same period last year, according to an analysis by MDA DataQuick. 
 Valarie Ross, who lives in the Phoenix suburb of Avondale, has watched six of the nine homes visible from her lawn chair emptied by moving trucks during the last year. Four have been resold by the government. ''One by one,'' she said. ''Just amazing.''
 The population of Pinal County, where Mr. Bridwell lives and works, roughly doubled to 340,000 over the last decade. Developers built an entirely new city called Maricopa on land assembled from farmers. Buyers camped outside new developments, waiting to purchase homes. One builder laid out a 300-lot subdivision at the end of a three-mile dirt road and still managed to sell 30 of the homes.
 Mr. Bridwell sold plenty of those houses during the boom, then cut workers as prices crashed. Now his firm, Golden Touch Realty, again employs as many people as at the height of the boom, all working exclusively for Fannie Mae. The payroll now includes a locksmith to secure foreclosed homes and two clerks devoted to federal paperwork.
 Golden Touch gets more listings from Fannie Mae than any other firm in Pinal County. Mr. Bridwell said he was ready to jump because he remembered the last time the government ended up owning thousands of Arizona houses, after the late-1980s collapse of the savings and loan industry.
 ''The way I see it,'' said Mr. Bridwell, whose glass-top desk displays membership cards from the Republican National Committee, ''is that we're getting these homes back into private hands.''
 Selling a house generally costs the government about $10,000. The outsides are weeded and the insides are scrubbed. Stolen appliances are replaced, brackish pools are refilled. And until the properties are sold, they must be maintained. Fannie asks contractors to mow lawns twice a month during the summer, and pays them $80 each time. That's a monthly grass bill of more than $10 million.
 All told, the companies spent more than $1 billion on upkeep last year.
 ''We may be behind many loans on the same street, so we believe that it's in everyone's best interest to aggressively do property maintenance,'' said Chris Bowden, the Freddie Mac executive in charge of foreclosure sales.
 Prices have plunged. So by the time a home is resold, Fannie and Freddie on average recoup less than 60 percent of the money the borrower failed to repay, according to the companies' financial filings. In Phoenix and other areas where prices have fallen sharply, the losses often are larger.
 Foreclosures punch holes in neighborhoods, so residents, community groups and public officials are eager to see properties reoccupied. But there also is concern that investors are buying many foreclosures as rental properties, making it harder for neighborhoods to recover.
 Real estate agents tend to favor investors because the sales close surely and quickly and there is the prospect of repeat business. But community advocates say that Fannie and Freddie have an obligation to sell houses to homeowners.
 David Adame worked for Fannie Mae's local office during the boom, on programs to make ownership more affordable. Now with prices down sharply, Mr. Adame sees a second chance to put people into homes they can afford.
 ''Yes, move inventory,'' said Mr. Adame, now an executive focused on housing issues at Chicanos por la Causa, a Phoenix nonprofit group, ''but if we just move inventory to investors, then what are we doing?''
 Executives at both Fannie and Freddie say they have an overriding obligation to limit losses, but that they are taking steps to sell more homes to families.
 Fannie Mae last summer announced that it would give people seeking homes a ''first look'' by not accepting offers from investors in the first 15 days that a property is on the market. It also offers to help buyers with closing costs, and prohibits buyers from reselling properties at a profit for 90 days, to discourage speculation. Fannie Mae said that 68.4 percent of buyers this year had certified that they would use the house as a primary residence.
 Freddie Mac has adopted fewer programs, but it said it had sold about the same share of foreclosures to owner-occupants.
 The companies also have agreed to sell foreclosed homes to nonprofits using grants from the federal Neighborhood Stabilization Program. Chicanos por la Causa, which won $137 million under the program in partnership with nonprofits in eight other states, plans to buy more than 200 homes in Phoenix in the next two years. It plans to renovate them to sell to local families.
 The scale of such efforts is small. The home ownership rate in Phoenix continues to fall as foreclosures pile up and renters replace owners. 
 But John R. Smith, chief of Housing Our Communities, another Phoenix-area group using federal money to buy foreclosures, says he tries to focus on salvaging one property at a time.
 ''I tell them, 'O.K., you want to unload 10 houses to that guy, fine,' '' he said. '' 'Now give me this one. And this one. And one over here.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Bridwell says his realty firm employs as many people as during the boom, now working on foreclosures for Fannie Mae. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) CHARTS: Behind the Curve: Houses acquired and sold: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are acquiring foreclosures faster than the homes can be sold . . .
 Houses in inventory: . . . making the mortgage finance companies two of the nation's largest landlords. (Sources: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); DESERTS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



534 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2948 words

HEADLINE: The Town That Loved Its Bank

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
MAYWOOD, Ill.
 LIKE many working-class towns in the Midwest, this Chicago suburb has been on the cusp of better times for decades.
 Separated by a river and woods from its wealthier neighbors, Oak Park and River Forest, it shares some of their charms: imposing, century-old homes and stately elms and maples draping the streets. But Maywood is decidedly more blue-collar than its neighbors, and its residents are predominantly African-American. Most of its homes are modest bungalows and frame houses that were built for factory workers whose jobs disappeared long ago. Many storefronts are vacant, and there appear to be more churches than viable businesses.
 For more than a decade, a silver-haired banker from River Forest named Michael E. Kelly -- owner of Park National Bank in the Chicago area and eight others around the country -- took an unusual interest in Maywood. He did things most bankers don't do.
 In 2003, he opened a branch in Maywood, just west of the city, despite the modest incomes of most of its residents. His bank bought an entire redevelopment bond issue from the village and refinanced it at a lower rate to save Maywood money. And in an effort to prop up property values, he came up with the idea of buying homes out of foreclosure, renovating them and selling them at cost. 
 ''He's from River Forest, O.K.?'' says Lennel Grace, a fourth-generation Maywood resident. ''If you talk to people in River Forest or Oak Park, they say, 'Oh, poor Maywood.' They kind of look down their nose. He's not that kind of a person.''
 ''He has a true connection and compassion for the community,'' adds Mr. Grace, who is 60. ''He understood that all these communities are linked in one way or another.''
 Last fall, Mr. Kelly's private banking empire collapsed, and his profitable, time-tested playbook as a banker and philanthropist failed amid his own misjudgments and the brutal headwinds of the financial crisis. At the direction of federal regulators, his nine banks were acquired by U.S. Bank, the nation's fifth-largest bank, based in Minneapolis.
 His banks are among more than 200 that federal regulators have seized in the last three years, many of them small, community institutions. Other banks have acquired most of their assets and deposits, and quietly reopened branches with new signs and little fuss.
 Across the country, many have bemoaned the loss of locally owned banks, worrying that a faceless national bank will have little interest in a community -- aside from making profits. Perhaps nowhere has that issue played out more publicly than in the Chicago area, where Mr. Kelly's Park National Bank was as well known for its philanthropy as for its financial products.
 Eight months after Park National's closing, anger continues to boil, in part because of the unusual circumstances surrounding its demise. And residents rankle because the federal government decided to bail out megabanks like Citigroup, deemed ''too big to fail,'' while letting a beloved community bank go under. In that context, outrage -- and hyperbole -- reign.
 ''Basically, it amounts to the largest bank robbery in the history of the United States,'' says David Pope, the Oak Park Village president. As the new owner of Mr. Kelly's banks, U.S. Bank has become the unwitting lightning rod for local politicians and activists. They demand that the bank, whose parent, U.S. Bancorp, had profits of $2.2 billion on revenue of $16.7 billion last year, curb foreclosures and replicate Mr. Kelly's philanthropy (which involved giving nearly 20 percent of annual profit to causes like education and affordable housing).
 Indignation erupted on a recent evening at a community meeting on Chicago's West Side, organized by the Coalition to Save Community Banking, a group of activists and ministers.
 It was clear from the start that the meeting, at Hope Community Advent Christian Church, wouldn't go well for the two attending U.S. Bank executives, Robert V. McGhee and William Fanter, who sat squirming in dark suits at a table set above the crowd on the dais.
 One speaker, the Rev. Randall Harris, led the audience in a rowdy chant. ''U.S. Bank!'' he shouted. ''Step up!'' Others vowed more vigorous protests unless U.S. Bank complied with community demands, which include establishing a $25 million fund to help stave off foreclosures. ''We are ready to sit down inside your bank until you take action,'' said the Rev. Michael Stinson. ''It's going to get real ugly before it gets pretty.''
 When Mr. McGhee, a vice president of U.S. Bank, stood to address the crowd, he was interrupted with angry questions and chants. ''We are very much aware of the impact Park had on this community,'' he said. ''That is not lost on us. We've taken copious notes.''
 U.S. Bank officials, clearly vexed by a groundswell, say they intend to honor all of Park National's outstanding commitments. But they also say the level of charitable giving will probably decline to match donations in other areas where U.S. Bank has branches. Because of the complexities of the modern mortgage business, the bank also says it has little legal ability to modify local mortgage loans that it did not originate but for which it acts as trustee.
 ''This has involved more public-relations issues than we ever had before,'' says Richard C. Hartnack, the bank's vice chairman for consumer banking. ''We bought 400 branches in California, and it's a much bigger place. That's gone absolutely smoothly.''
 But as he notes, there's a big difference between California and Maywood. In California, he says, ''we didn't have the ghost of Mike Kelly to deal with.''
 DESCRIBING Mr. Kelly as a ghost isn't entirely inaccurate. This 65-year-old banker, who is alive and presumably well, is as intensely private as he is generous. In keeping with his past aversion to the news media, he declined to be interviewed for this article.
 According to Congressional testimony and former colleagues, Mr. Kelly took over the First Bank of Oak Park in 1981, and built it into an enterprise with about $19 billion in assets, largely by buying failed or underperforming banks.
 He ended up owning nine banks in Texas, California, Arizona and Illinois, all under the umbrella of his bank holding company, the FBOP Corporation. It was the largest privately held bank-holding company in the United States and, before 2008, recorded 25 consecutive years of profits, according to Mr. Kelly's testimony before Congress in January, in a hearing prompted by the closing of his banks.
 Mr. Kelly's banks were also known for generous charitable donations and a commitment to low-income areas, particularly in the Chicago area. For instance, Park National pledged a $27 million, interest-free construction loan to build a Jesuit preparatory school in Austin, a predominantly African-American neighborhood that abuts Oak Park.
 Park National also helped to create a community savings center on the West Side of Chicago that provided low-cost banking services and financial counseling to people who normally don't use banks. And it set aside $20 million to help homeowners facing foreclosure.
 In total, Mr. Kelly's banks donated a total of $36.7 million to charitable causes in 2007 and 2008. FBOP, the holding company, chipped in a further $17 million in those two years, according to his Congressional testimony.
 FBOP banks also provided $583 million in that two-year span for community development loans, including such things as affordable housing and inner-city redevelopment, he told Congress. 
 ''This was the finest community bank in America,'' says the Rev. Marshall Hatch, a leader in the community banking coalition. ''The loss of the bank is incalculable for our side of town.''
 But, of course, Park National is now out of business. So are Mr. Kelly's other eight banks, which were also acquired by U.S. Bank last October. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said the cost of the failures to its insurance fund was $2.5 billion.
 LEFT in the rubble of that takeover are questions about the viability of Mr. Kelly's altruistic business model and the fairness of the federal government's system for closing down -- or saving -- ailing banks.
 Whereas some of the nation's biggest banks nearly collapsed under the weight of risky loans and dubious underwriting, FBOP's big problem, according to Mr. Kelly and his regulators, was that it invested nearly $900 million in what appeared to be sure-thing, blue-chip investments -- preferred stock in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage giants. Those investments were considered so safe, in fact, that government regulators encouraged banks to invest in them.
 But as the mortgage industry melted down, so did Fannie and Freddie; the government took them over two years ago. Holders of Fannie's and Freddie's preferred securities were out of luck, and the loss left gaping holes in the capital cushion at some of Mr. Kelly's banks.
 He had other problems, too. For years, he had prospered by scooping up other banks in times of trouble or lending when others pulled back. He followed the same instincts as the mortgage crisis began to go into overdrive, allowing FBOP's banks to expand their loan portfolio by 35 percent between 2007 and 2008. 
 When the credit and real estate markets subsequently fell apart, the deterioration of FBOP's loan portfolio, particularly in commercial real estate, accelerated, federal regulators testified at the January hearing.
 At the hearing, Mr. Kelly testified that he believed his problems with securing new funding during the mortgage crisis were solved when the government announced the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, in October 2008.
 Mr. Kelly said regulators urged him to apply immediately for TARP funds and gave him verbal assurances that his application would be approved. But the first round of TARP money was directed at publicly traded banks, not private entities like FBOP, and Mr. Kelly didn't receive any aid. He testified that a second application for TARP funds stalled as regulators kept changing the criteria.
 In a story that has gained much notoriety in Chicago, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, awarded a Park National subsidiary $50 million in tax credits on the morning of Oct. 30, 2008, to help the bank finance schools, retail development and a community center on the city's South Side.
 Later that day, federal regulators closed Mr. Kelly's banks.
 F.D.I.C. officials said they simply pursued the least costly option for resolving the failed banks, as required by law.
 ''FBOP's business strategy -- which had previously been successful -- left the bank vulnerable to the perfect storm of events that the FBOP banks could not survive, including unforeseen and devastating G.S.E. losses,'' testified Jennifer C. Kelly, senior deputy comptroller for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the primary regulator for many of Mr. Kelly's banks. Fannie and Freddie are known as G.S.E.'s, or government-sponsored enterprises.
 ''The determinations to place the FBOP banks into receivership were consistent with, or required by, the statutory scheme Congress put in place,'' she said.
 MR. HARTNACK, the U.S. Bank executive, says that his bank has won over customers in the many markets it has entered over the years, and that it eventually will do so here. But he said big banks will never be mistaken for the old corner bank.
 ''It is virtually impossible for a very large company to attain that same level of affection that a community bank has,'' he says, suggesting that the local banking model has become somewhat antiquated as more consumers bank online. ''It's a charming part of our financial history.''
 Mr. Hartnack also points out that FBOP concentrated its donations in the Chicago area. U.S. Bank, he said, tries to spread donations fairly among its more than 3,000 bank offices across the country. As a big publicly traded institution, U.S. Bank also has to consider shareholders who would undoubtedly frown if 20 percent of its profits went to charity. 
 ''It's probably reasonable to expect some diminishment in total giving but not reneging on commitments,'' Mr. Hartnack says of his bank's takeover of FBOP. ''We'll gradually not make as many new ones until we get the numbers in balance.''
 U.S. Bank's evolving policy in the Chicago area has created a fair amount of angst, in part because the bank donates 1 to 2 percent of its profits. Besides its donations, the bank provides billions in community lending and investments.
 Jackie Leavy, a founder of the Coalition to Save Community Banking, said the bank hadn't been transparent in its intentions. For instance, she says, U.S. Bank has taken over and renamed Park National's nonprofit arm, which rehabbed homes and redeveloped blighted areas, but has declined to say how much money it is putting into it.
 ''It's the bob-and-dodge act,'' Ms. Leavy says.
 U.S. Bank officials say they are still working out the numbers and don't feel compelled to share news of every donation with community activists.
 Members of the coalition have also criticized U.S. Bank for what they say is its hands-off policy on housing foreclosures. But the bank is in a difficult situation in that regard, given the structure of the mortgage market. Individual mortgage loans were long ago pooled into bonds and then sold to investors as a means of -- in theory -- reducing investors' exposure to mortgage losses and therefore allowing banks to underwrite many more mortgages.
 Neither U.S. Bank nor Park National was a major originator of mortgages in Maywood or the Chicago area. But U.S. Bank is a custodian of bonds containing those mortgages. 
 Bank officials say that as trustee, they have no authority to try to restructure mortgages. But that reasoning has done little to appease critics, who say banks are just passing the buck. 
 Protesters recently rallied against U.S. Bank at a vacant apartment building in Austin, the neighborhood near Oak Park; the bank is trustee for the bonds backed by the property. The back door was ajar, and a pipe in the basement spewed water. The apartments were littered with dog feces and the detritus of past lives: birthday streamers over a doorway, a girl's pink coat on a hook, computer monitors and dishes.
 ''The door is open; sometimes I can hear dogs barking,'' says Delia Ewing, 84, who lives next door. ''I walk in the backyard and see grass taller than I am.''
 Given the circumstances, U.S. Bank officials said they contacted the originator of the mortgage, Wells Fargo, and urged it to board up the building. 
 But U.S. Bank officials say they are dumbfounded that they are being singled out. ''We agree that foreclosures are a huge problem,'' says Steve SaLoutos, executive vice president of U.S. Bank's Midwest division. ''It's not a Park National problem, or a U.S. Bank problem, but a national problem.''
 He says it's a frustrating situation for the bank to manage, because it is essentially in the position of cleaning up other people's mistakes. ''Do you isolate the bank that is the last one to put a sign on the building?'' he asks.
 U.S. Bank, though, has made some friends in Chicago.
 At Christ the King Jesuit College Preparatory, the school to which Park National pledged a no-interest loan, the bank is seen as a hero. The school caters to motivated low-income students who agree to work one day a week to cover most of their tuition costs.
 As the first new Catholic high school on the West Side in 85 years, it owes its existence to Michael Kelly, but when Park National folded last fall, Christ the King's future suddenly looked bleak. 
 ''There was so much uncertainty,'' says the Rev. Christopher J. Devron, the school's president, adding that he ''prayed a lot, lost a lot of sleep.''
 He said he eventually approached U.S. Bank to see if it would take over Park National's commitments. U.S. Bank sent a team to the school to meet students, and it eventually decided to substantially match Park National's commitments -- not only money but also jobs for students. ''You couldn't argue with the value of what the school was doing,'' says Mr. Hartnack.
 ON a tour of Maywood, Lennel Grace works through a list of foreclosed homes for which U.S. Bank is either originator, trustee or servicer. At some of the stops, members of the Coalition to Save Community Banking have put signs on the door that read, ''Another U.S. Bank foreclosure.''
 Mr. Grace, economic development director at Rock of Ages Baptist Church, says foreclosures have devastated the village, creating dangerous eyesores that have decimated property values. Of the town's roughly 6,800 households, there were 449 new foreclosure filings in Maywood from the beginning of 2009 through the first quarter of 2010, according to the Woodstock Institute, a community development think tank. 
 ''This is not a bad neighborhood,'' he says, pulling onto South 17th Street. ''But they are buying these houses for nothing.'' 
 Mr. Grace and others say they are well aware that U.S. Bank isn't responsible for all the foreclosures. But they also said that by acquiring Park National Bank, U.S. Bank accepted the community's expectations set by Mr. Kelly.
 At the meeting at Hope church, Mr. Hatch applauded U.S. Bank for making some steps, like investing in schools. But like many others that night, he dispatched with niceties, and threatened to send busloads of protesters to U.S. Bank's headquarters in Minnesota unless it started acting more like Park National.
 ''We have made tremendous progress,'' he said, turning to the audience. ''Because on the West Side we fight back.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Virgil Crawford addressing a community meeting in Maywood, Ill., where residents are angry that regulators didn't rescue a local bank, Park National.
Lennel Grace, economic development director at Rock of Ages Baptist Church, says Park National's owner had ''compassion for the community.'' (BU1)
Eddie Henderson keeps his yard neat, while the house next door, like many others in Maywood, is in foreclosure.
 William Fanter, left, and Robert McGhee, both of U.S. Bank, listened to the complaints of politicians and residents. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); FORECLOSURE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BANK BRANCHES (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PRIVATE BANKING (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); BONDS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (61%)

COMPANY: PARK NATIONAL CORP (70%); U S BANCORP (56%)

TICKER: PRK (NYSE MKT) (70%); USB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (70%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



535 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: In Indiana, Centerpiece For a City Closes Shop

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -- Having seen her father make a solid living at the Whirlpool refrigerator factory, Natalie Ford was enthusiastic about landing a job there and was happy years later when her 20-year-old son also went to work there. 
 But that family tradition will soon end because Whirlpool plans to close the plant on Friday and move the operation to Mexico, eliminating 1,100 jobs here. Many in this city in southern Indiana are seething and sad -- sad about losing what was long the city's economic centerpiece and a ticket to the middle class for one generation after another.
 ''This is all about corporate greed,'' said Ms. Ford, who took a job at Whirlpool 19 years ago. ''It's devastating to our family and to everyone in the plant. I wonder where we'll be two years or four years from now. There aren't any jobs here. How is this community going to survive?''
 At a time when the nation's economy is struggling to gain momentum, Whirlpool's decision is an unwelcome step backward. It continues a trend in which the nation has lost nearly six million factory jobs over the past dozen years, representing one in three manufacturing jobs. 
 Connie Brasel, who earned $18.44 an hour making thermal liners for the refrigerators, sees Whirlpool's move as a betrayal not just of the workers but also of the United States.
 ''This country made Whirlpool what it is,'' she said. ''They didn't get world-class quality because they had the best managers. They got world-class quality because of the U.S. and because of their workers. And now they want to pack up and move to Mexico. I find it offensive.''
 Whirlpool has operated the plant since 1956, and at the factory's peak in 1973 it employed nearly 10,000 workers. 
 Ms. Brasel was hired 17 years ago, after holding a string of minimum-wage jobs. ''I felt good about Whirlpool,'' she said. ''I was becoming part of something bigger than me. Whirlpool was the best thing that ever happened to me.''
 When she learned of the closing, she said, ''I cried like a baby.''
 To vent their anger, the workers' union, the International Union of Electrical Workers, put up a billboard in Whirlpool's headquarters city, Benton Harbor, Mich., that says ''Shame on Whirlpool for building a new plant in Mexico to take good-paying manufacturing jobs out of the U.S. during our nation's tough economic times.''
 Whirlpool officials defend the move, saying the factory, which makes refrigerators with the freezer on top, was undercut by high costs and underused capacity. 
 Jody Lau, a Whirlpool spokeswoman, said that the plant was ''uncompetitive from a cost standpoint'' and that Whirlpool was always looking ''for ways to improve its operating efficiencies to help it stay competitive.'' 
 ''Aggressive actions by global competitors,'' she said, ''forces the business to consolidate production in a facility where we can deliver the product at the best cost,'' referring to the factory in Mexico.
 Whirlpool is not deserting the nation, Ms. Lau said, noting that 20,000 of its 67,000 employees worldwide are still in the United States, including 300 research and development jobs that will remain in Evansville. 
 The closing leaves not just Ms. Ford and her son without a job, but also her husband, a worker in the metal-pressing shop. 
 ''My mom and dad told me that when they were young, there were jobs everywhere,'' she said. ''They said we had Whirlpool, Bristol-Myers, Mead Johnson, Windsor Plastics, Guardian Automotive, Zenith. Now if you want to find a job, there's nothing around.''
 At 43, Ms. Ford has little interest in returning to school. But if she cannot find a job, she will rethink that reluctance. Maybe she will become a physical therapist, she said.
 ''My first thought is to find work, but everything seems to be going overseas,'' she said. ''If I go to school, it will be for something in the medical field because they're not going to ship that offshore, so I'd never have to go through this again.''
 Her laid-off son is moving in with her. ''I can't turn my kids away,'' she said. ''I don't know how he'll survive.'' 
 Ms. Ford, a shop steward at the plant, worries for the nation's future. ''I don't know how without any good-paying jobs here in the United States how people are going to pay for their health care, put their children through school,'' she said. 
 Ask the workers who is to blame, and they say not just Whirlpool, but also President Bill Clinton for having negotiated the North American Free Trade Agreement, which eliminated tariffs on trade with the United States' neighbors. They say the pact has siphoned jobs to Mexico. 
 They also blame Indiana's governor, Mitch Daniels, saying he has largely ignored their plight, and President George W. Bush and President Obama, saying they had done little to reverse manufacturing's decline.
 ''When people are unemployed for a long period, they would look at any administration, including this one, as being part of the problem and not doing enough,'' said Mohammed F. Khayum, the dean of the University of Southern Indiana's business school. ''It can definitely play a role in this November's elections unless things turn around before then.''
 Dr. Khayum was not optimistic for the laid-off workers. ''Given the skill levels they have,'' he said, ''they're not ready to transition to the frontier sectors of the economy, like information technology and life sciences.''
 And he was surprised at the prevalence and vehemence of protectionist attitudes of workers like Ms. Ford, a strong critic of free trade who said: ''They have to do something with Nafta. They need to start putting tariffs on products that are coming back from Mexico. They need to start punishing corporations for sending jobs outside the United States.''
 Whirlpool is shutting its Evansville plant at the same time that General Electric is expanding its appliance operations in Louisville, Ky., 100 miles to the northeast. G.E. is hiring 420 workers to build hybrid water heaters now made in China. 
 ''Louisville and Evansville are very similar in terms of business climate and labor rates,'' said Scott N. Paul, executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. ''It shows that G.E. is willing to invest in America and show some economic patriotism. Whirlpool is still stuck in this old model of outsourcing every last bit of manufacturing they possibly can.'' 
 Some Whirlpool workers are more forgiving. Randall Reynolds, a fourth-generation employee, is proud of the factory, saying, ''We were considered the refrigerator capital of the world.''
 Mr. Reynolds, a forklift driver who has found a new job with a glass company, said: ''I know there is a world economy out there. I know it's hard for Whirlpool to pay me close to $18 an hour when in other parts of the world, workers are earning $4 or less an hour.''
 Despite being laid off, he said he would feel forever indebted to Whirlpool.
 ''My son was born three months premature, and the hospital bill was just short of $250,000,'' he said. ''Because of Whirlpool's health insurance, my child is healthy. Every day I look at his face, and I'm thankful for what I have because of Whirlpool. I just don't want it to stop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Whirlpool plant in Evansville, Ind., is closing this week after more than 50 years. ''We were considered the refrigerator capital of the world,'' said Randall Reynolds, who was a forklift driver. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARL KIILSGAARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (69%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL OF INDIA LTD (92%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (92%)

TICKER: WHIRLPOOL (NSE) (92%); WHR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



536 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Museum Mile Uptown

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
SHE was sometimes by his side when William C. Thompson Jr. worked the rubber-chicken circuit last year, a poised, attractive woman in no rush to pose for the cameras, confident that her husband, the New York City comptroller, could make his own case for why he deserved to be mayor.
 Elsie McCabe Thompson was perhaps an underused asset in her husband's narrowly unsuccessful campaign against Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Smart, articulate and charming, she emerged infrequently from the shadows to talk to reporters. When she did, she often also spoke of something else dear to her heart: the Museum for African Art.
 Now after more than a decade pursuing what some saw as an impossible quest Mrs. Thompson is preparing to open the museum's new $95 million home on upper Fifth Avenue next spring. 
 ''Maybe I'm just contrary,'' she said during an interview this month, ''but the more people tell me it can't be done, the more I want to prove that it can.'' 
 Even as her husband steps back (temporarily, he says) from public life, Mrs. Thompson has emerged as the increasingly visible president of the 26-year-old museum as it completes an unlikely journey from a temporary office in Queens to Manhattan's cultural center stage.
 On Fifth Avenue between 109th and 110th Streets, the museum will occupy the lower floors of a 19-story condominium designed by Robert A. M. Stern and will extend New York's Museum Mile uptown into Harlem. The limestone-colored building, with window mullions that lyrically evoke the weave of African baskets, will become a high-profile showplace for one of the only two major American museums devoted solely to African art. (The other is the Smithsonian's National Museum of African Art in Washington.)
 The hoopla associated with its arrival will be a coming-out party of sorts for Mrs. Thompson, who, if her husband has his way, would one day become the city's first lady. 
 Mrs. Thompson, 51, had singular qualifications to shepherd the museum project when officials tapped her to lead the institution in 1997. Though not an art historian, she was a Harvard-trained lawyer (and Eliot Spitzer's moot court partner in law school) who had once held a high post in city government, clearly understood its mechanics and had established her own viable ties to the Harlem political leadership. 
 And as the project moved forward, it did not hurt that she was the close friend and later spouse of Mr. Thompson, who held one of the city's most powerful offices and remains today one of the front-runners for the 2013 Democratic mayoral nomination.
 So far of the $71 million raised in construction funds for the museum, some $32 million has come from public funds, though Mr. Thompson said he has had only the most limited of roles in securing them. 
 The road ahead for the museum looks unremittingly steep however. It does not have an endowment. It is projecting an operating budget of as much as $8 million a year, or almost triple its current expenses, and it is doing so at a time when the aftermath of the recession has made both public and private donors cautious about taking on any new financial commitments. 
 ''Long before the recession these new buildings were struggling to pay operating costs,'' said Gail Lord, the co-president of Lord Cultural Resources, an advisory firm with cultural clients around the world. ''The recession only made it worse.''
 Small, specialized museums have the hardest time because they cannot realize economies of scale, Ms. Lord said, though she was impressed that the Museum for African Art had done enough planning actually to know what its budget would be. 
 Museum board members say they will be able to tap additional resources, perhaps by selling the naming rights to the building, as long as the person is a good fit for the museum. (They estimate that they could get as much as $50 million for this.)
 And it is not as if Mrs. Thompson and her board have not overcome numerous other hurdles. The museum's original development partner pulled out. Then there was a lengthy and at times contentious public approval process, the Uniform Land Use Review Procedure, known as Ulurp. Before construction the engineers had to adjust the foundation plan to account for unstable sediment. Mrs. Thompson said the remaining obstacles were ''nothing more onerous than what we've already had to deal with.''
 Mrs. Thompson is the mother of twins, and with her wide smile and a slightly husky voice, she exudes a kind of matriarchal warmth, even toward the museum. She hugs. She describes the museum as ''my baby,'' and she will interrupt a conversation to dab at a stain on a female colleague's shirt.
 ''I wanted my kids, my little African-American kids, to be proud of being African-American,'' she said recently to explain her passion for the museum. A native New Yorker, she worked for the law firm Shearman & Sterling before joining the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins. Afterward, when she was turned down for jobs because she did not have experience running a big nonprofit, she founded one, devoted to bringing computer technology and training to poor urban neighborhoods.
 She makes no apologies for knowing little about African art when she took the museum job. ''I sought to learn a lot, and I did,'' she said.
 After opening in 1984 in an Upper East Side town house, the museum developed a reputation for innovative exhibitions, but its fund-raising was low. For many years it was located in SoHo, but the space was rented, making it hard to plan.
 When Mrs. Thompson saw the Fifth Avenue site, she said, she fell in love. The location, at the juncture of Harlem and Museum Mile, was symbolic, and it was close to audiences the museum wanted to reach. The first development plan called for a partnership with Edison Schools, the for-profit manager of public schools. Edison would help pay for the purchase of the land, some of which was city owned, and would build offices and a flagship school, whose students could use the museum. But Edison backed out in 2002, after it ran into financial difficulties.
 This current project is being undertaken with new development partners, Brickman and Sidney Fetner Associates, who are building luxury condominiums. The developers paid most of the cost of the land and built the core and shell of the museum. At a news conference for the project in 2007 Mayor Bloomberg praised the museum as an important addition to Museum Mile. The ceremonial groundbreaking that year was attended by a raft of public officials, including Gov. Eliot Spitzer, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, Representative Charles B. Rangel and Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer. 
 By this time Mrs. Thompson had been dating the comptroller, a longtime friend, for more than a year. Her husband, Eugene L. McCabe, the president of North General Hospital in Harlem, had died in 1998, and Mr. Thompson had filed for divorce in 2005.
 Mr. Thompson said in an interview that his future wife had called him over the years, as she did many people, seeking support for the museum. But he said he had not provided any assistance beyond a call to a deputy mayor when the museum was seeking to secure the land from the city and a 2005 conversation about funds with the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller. The conversation with Mr. Miller took place in April 2005, according to Mr. Miller's appointment diaries, about a month after Mr. Thompson had recused himself from all museum matters because of the personal relationship. Mr. Miller, as reported this year in The Village Voice, ended up committing $750,000 in city capital funds to the project that year.
 But Mr. Thompson said it had been Mr. Miller who had contacted him about the museum, not the other way around. Mr. Miller said he could not recall the conversation or who had initiated it. Mr. Thompson said that it was his wife who had persuaded government officials to support the project. ''They all know Elsie on her own, not because of me,'' he said. 
 The museum has set an ambitious slate of loan exhibitions for its first few months, including the first-ever career retrospective of the Ghanaian artist El Anatsui; a show comparing African baskets with those made in the American South; and an exhibition of ancient sculptures from Nigeria, organized by the museum and the Fundacion Marcelino Botin in Spain. (The museum's own permanent collection is small, with around 400 works.)
 Mrs. Thompson said she expects to draw more than the approximately 225,000 yearly visitors who go to the Museum of the City of New York, several blocks south on Fifth Avenue. She also expects substantial revenue from a restaurant; the sale of African jewelry, textiles and other items; and from leasing an event space.
 In part to bolster its donor contributions, the museum has expanded its board to 22 members (with a goal of 25); those added recently include the artist Martin Puryear and Mannie Jackson, the Harlem Globetrotters' chairman. To save money the museum may open only certain sections next April. Adjusting expectations has been essential to keep the project on track, and Mrs. Thompson said that her own expectations have been challenged as she has confronted the works of art she now spends her days with. 
 She had initially found a wooden spirit figure from Congo alien and frightening with its surface covered by nails. But she came to learn that each of the nails represented an oath or prayer -- for example, a ritual prayer for the harvest or the resolution of a dispute between neighbors. ''It represents the hopes and dreams, the fears, the prayers, the aspirations of a single community of people for generations,'' she said of the sculpture. ''For me that's what resonated.''
 She hopes that the museum will bring Africa, long misunderstood as a ''dark, distant place,'' out of the shadows, she said. Its debut will certainly usher Mrs. Thompson further into the spotlight, a place she may one day inhabit even more prominently depending upon the political future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elsie McCabe Thompson, the president of the Museum for African Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
Above, from top, Elsie McCabe Thompson and staff members of the Museum for African Art
renderings of a gallery and roof garden
William C. Thompson Jr. Above left, a view of the museum. Above right, copper mask from Nigeria and a bowl from Angola. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAVID HUANG
TODD HEISLER/ THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBERT A. M. STERN ARCHITECTS L.L.P.
KARIN L. WILLIS/MUSEUM FOR AFRICAN ART
 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY) (AR23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAWYERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); HISTORY (70%); ART HISTORY (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ANGOLA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



537 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 INFINITI M37 AND M56; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Zen and the Art Of Image Maintenance

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
IF luxury brands have identities, Infiniti's has too often seemed a secret one.
 German competitors, with deeper-rooted design traditions and a reassuring familiarity, have it easier. Even a casual follower of automobiles knows the look of a BMW and understands what the Mercedes three-pointed star represents. But among Japanese luxury brands -- Nissan's Infiniti, Honda's Acura and Toyota's Lexus -- only Lexus has managed to stake out a clear position in the public's mind. Lexus has done that by being comfortable in its own skin; by consistently fielding cars that, though often anathema to driving enthusiasts, affirm a no-less-worthy set of luxury values: richness, smooth sanctuary and impressive reliability.
 Infiniti, to its credit, has recently measured itself against the high-performance standard of BMW. But beyond establishing perhaps the best BMW fighter on a budget -- the roughly $40,000 G37 sport sedan and coupe, which account for half of Infiniti's sales -- the brand has struggled to carry that success into larger cars and steeper price brackets. The brand has even scuttled its Q-ship, successor to the big sedan that in 1989 introduced Infiniti to America. 
 A notorious series of Zen-like commercials, showing rocks and trees rather than cars, was meant to create buzz and mystery. But the ads turned into a cruel koan: Infiniti was the luxury brand that falls in the forest. 
 But if there's justice, the new M sedan will give Infiniti the foothold it has always sought on the midrange luxury battlefield dominated by the Mercedes E-Class and BMW 5 Series. The new M37 (V-6) and M56 (V-8) can hold their stylish heads up on every front, though a daunting set of pseudo-safety devices tends to dampen the fun.
 Life wasn't always fair to the previous-generation M, whose athletic comportment was widely viewed as roughly matching the BMW's. Yet you'd never have known it from the M's polite styling and glaringly Nissanesque interior, and most shoppers barely took a glance on their way to Benz und Bimmer's Haus of Cars.
 But if the previous model drove strong but looked weak, the new M's commercial jingle should be ''Let's Get Physical.'' Bulging, strapping and so organically styled it looks like a metallic life form, the new M proves again that underdog brands do best when they take design risks. 
 Not everyone will love the Infiniti's coiling style, which seems inspired by undersea creatures, yet no one can dismiss the M as another Asian wallflower. That's a good thing.
 The M also takes interior luxury to palpable heights for the Infiniti brand: Proud M owners might pull into the driveways of neighboring Audi, Lexus or Mercedes owners and dare them to spot any speck of deficiency. 
 Thickly bolstered seats and door panels are ribbed and padded and stitched with evident care. You can get high-grade semianiline leather (part of a $3,800 deluxe touring package). That package adds Japanese white ash trim, shimmering with genuine silver embedded in its grain (which some of my passengers thought made the real wood look fake). 
 The cabin is all swoops, sparkles and flourishes, and the effect is a bit rococo for some tastes. (An available dark-wood finish is more modest.) But there's no denying the rich materials and attention to detail: even the rear cup holders avoid the throwaway appearance of those in some dearly priced cars. 
 An optional Forest Air feature purifies and subtly varies the air flow among the vents to mimic a natural breeze wafting through the deep woods. (There's that Zen thing again.) I'm not sure if this ventilation system is more minty-fresh than others, but it did seem to circulate cool air without blasting it in your face.
 Infiniti's central control panel -- which juts out like an A.T.M. keypad -- has been simplified. Infiniti's navigation system is top-notch, except for vexing delays when you enter destinations or receive route recalculations. The only ergonomic miscue is the placement of buttons for the rear window shade, steering wheel heater and trunk opener, all exiled to an awkward area below the driver's left knee.
 With old shortcomings transformed into strengths, the M's solid foundation in chassis, engines and handling comes into sharper focus. The M37's naturally aspirated 3.7-liter engine isn't the smoothest 6 in its class, but with 330 horsepower, it is among the strongest. Car and Driver clocked the M37 at 5.6 seconds from a standstill to 60 m.p.h. The V-6 model also handles a bit more nimbly than the heavier, costlier M56.
 For those who buy power in bulk, the M56's new 5.6-liter V-8 makes 420 horsepower, a bountiful gain of 95 over the lazy 4.5-liter engine in the last-generation M45. The M56 takes just 4.7 seconds in the 0-to-60 race; for perspective, that's as fast as the 500-horse BMW M5 supersedan. 
 Combine two solid engines with athletic moves that most cars in this class would kill for and you have a Japanese sport sedan for people who find Lexus and Mercedes too sedate and BMW too trendy. 
 Buyers in BMW attack-mode will want the $3,650 Sport package, which includes burly 20-inch wheels, a firmer suspension and stronger brakes, sport seats and paddle shifters, and four-wheel steering that can turn the rear wheels up to one degree in unison with the front wheels for noticeably quick turning response. 
 Unfortunately, Infiniti won't sell you that option group unless you shell out another $2,000 for a Sport Touring package with Forest Air, a premium audio system and power rear sunshade. 
 More lamentable are the mixed messages Infiniti sends through intrusive electronic devices. In my view, these do little to enhance safety even as they water down what should be an unfiltered shot of performance. 
 First, a central control knob lets users choose modes for ''snow,'' ''eco,'' ''standard'' and ''sport.'' Yet every mode but ''sport'' bogs the throttle and hamstrings the otherwise solid 7-speed transmission, making it stubborn about choosing a lower gear unless you really hammer the gas. That's in the interest of fuel economy: the M37 carries a rating of 18 m.p.g. in the city and 26 on the highway; the M56 is rated 16/25.
 Buyers can save $3,000 by avoiding the Technology package that includes lane departure, blind-spot and forward-collision warning systems (though that means giving up the package's more useful features like intelligent cruise control and adaptive headlamps).
 Brush a lane marker without using the turn signal and the car chirps like a mother hen. An industry-first blind-spot intervention system creates its own version of a force field, applying individual brakes to resist a potentially misguided lane change. Move too close to a car ahead and the system beeps some more while flashing a warning. 
 The effect is like driving a satanic oven timer, with the Infiniti buzzing every other block and making you jump to see what's cooking. And when in economy mode, the accelerator -- Infiniti calls it the ''eco pedal'' -- pushes back annoyingly against your foot, nudging you to slow down.
 The lane warning defaults to high-alert position whenever the car is turned on, which forced me to shut the warning off and defeat its intended purpose. 
 Finally, the Infiniti's stability-control system is an unmitigated prude, especially in the V-8 model. Having hitched 420 horses to a chariot that Ben-Hur would be proud of, Infiniti (or its lawyers) seems frightened that a driver might actually decide to whip them.
 When I tested the M56, giving it full throttle even in a straight line on dry pavement made a warning icon flash and the acceleration go limp. 
 The Infiniti cries out for a selectable ''sport'' or ''competition'' stability setting that would allow drivers to extract the performance they paid for while maintaining a safety net for true emergencies. As it stands, this isn't a car you would want to take to Track Day at the local racecourse.
 Despite the distracting gizmos, the Infiniti's style, luxury and, yes, performance are worthy draws. The M37 starts at $47,115 and the M56 at $58,415, well below a comparable BMW, Audi or Benz. The nearly loaded M37 that I tested sneaked in just below $60,000, and the M56 Sport was less than $65,000. A buyer can add all-wheel-drive to the M37 for $2,150 and to the M56 for $2,500.
 The smaller G37 has shown that Infiniti can polka with the best compact sedans from Germany. With more style, space and luxury, the M is also a hot performance date. It's too bad that the driver can't ditch the electronic chaperones. 
 INSIDE TRACK: HAL on wheels.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEA CHANGE: The latest Infiniti M sedans have an organic look that seems inspired by creatures in the ocean. (AU1)
 BREEZY: If you pay extra, your Infiniti can have ''forest air.'' (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); SEDANS (90%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); 7201 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



538 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS WEST 94TH STREET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Feathered And Refeathered

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM. 
E-mail: habitats@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HALF a century on, it's hard to remember the starry-eyed idealism that marked the creation of the West Side Urban Renewal Area, the widely praised effort to replace 20 blocks of notorious slums with housing for a broad mix of social and economic groups.
 But Albert and Sara Webster, now 72, remember. 
 When the urban renewal plans were being hatched, the Websters -- Nick and Sally to everyone who knows them -- were recently married 20-somethings from suburban New Jersey drawn together partly by a shared desire to live in New York. 
 In 1965, they and another couple bought adjoining brownstones on 94th Street near Columbus Avenue. The Websters' building, a dilapidated four-story structure for which they paid $25,000, had spent decades as a rooming house; some of its dozen apartments lacked even a window. 
 Rats and drug paraphernalia were the block's defining elements; police sirens were its sound track. It would take three years -- and a $90,000 gut renovation -- before the Websters could actually move in. 
 Despite the area's troubles, those were heady times.
 ''It was a moment of remarkable optimism,'' Ms. Webster said. ''This was going to be an integrated neighborhood, with housing for people at every income level. What an inspiring prospect!''
 But not everyone shared her sentiments. 
 ''My mother, who by then lived on Sutton Place, had a heart attack when she learned what we were doing,'' Ms. Webster recalled. ''She said to me, 'What will I tell my friends?' '' 
 Along the way, the Websters fell in love with two teams of architects -- first Harold and Judith Edelman (Mr. Edelman died in 1998), then John and Connie Torborg. In tracing the history of their house, the couple mention the architects so often and with such obvious affection, they sound like members of the family.
 ''We started out with Harold and Judy,'' Mr. Webster said. ''I remember Harold and I did the initial planning over a dinner during which we consumed a fair amount of bourbon.''
 The first renovation transformed the brownstone into a relaxed and commodious home for the Websters and their two young children, with rental apartments on the top two floors. The second renovation, which took place a decade ago, was carried out by the Torborgs, and imparted a different aesthetic.
 ''Harold was a full-blown Modernist, in the best sense of the word,'' Mr. Webster said. ''His spaces conformed to how we live in them.''
 By contrast, Ms. Webster said: ''The Torborgs gave us molding. That was a big difference. Harold would be rolling over in his grave to see the crown molding.''
 The latest renovation, which cost about $100,000, retrofitted a family house into a comfortably empty nest, one well suited to this stage in the couple's professional lives. 
 Mr. Webster retired in 1990 as the executive vice president and managing director of the New York Philharmonic, and Ms. Webster retired this year as a full professor of art history at Lehman College and the Graduate Center of City University. But both still lead busy professional lives. Mr. Webster sits on multiple boards of directors, and Ms. Webster is completing her fourth book.
 And, as redefined, their house is accommodating these new roles.
 ''With the kids gone, our life took on a new dimension,'' Mr. Webster said. ''Our first life was full of family. The second has more to do with our professional sides, and with New York. We stepped into a life that was waiting for us and recreated the setting to match that life.''
 The second floor was reconfigured to transform their daughter's bedroom into a sitting room and their son's into an office for Ms. Webster. Bookshelves that reach to the 12-foot-high ceilings line the walls; the library ladder gets a good workout. 
 There is even a small room for office supplies, because as Mr. Webster explained, showing off bulk purchases of paper clips and Scotch tape, ''When two people work at home, you need that.'' 
 One part of the house that has remained largely unchanged is the back garden. A Japanese maple, planted as a sapling in 1980 by Mr. Webster and his son, Albert, now stands eight feet tall. In nice weather, the couple eat here, sometimes joined by their next-door neighbors, Joseph Rosalie and Donna Saliani, or the Torborgs, who live just two houses down.
 Through two teams of architects, the house has retained its cozy feel, in part thanks to the brick walls, the multiple working fireplaces and the upholstered window seats. A stack of wood sits next to the fireplace in the living room; in winter, the Websters pull up a table and watch the fire as they eat. 
 Over the decades, certain themes have continued to define the mood of the house.
 One is Maine. Mr. Webster's parents and grandparents have homes in the coastal town of Surry, and the couple spend part of the summer there. Items discovered during antiquing forays in the area include a quartet of colorful oils of his parents' house, pen-and-ink studies by a Maine artist named Sam Cady, a painting on wood of a cormorant by Phil Barter, also a Maine artist, and a haunting folk-art assemblage honoring Elmer, a popular local hermit.
 Heirlooms from his family lurk in every corner, among them the Imari plate that hangs on the dining room wall, a 19th-century chest of burled walnut and, over the couple's bed, a navy and beige Jacquard weaving from 1831. The weaving bears his mother's maiden name, Knickerbocker, and was made for her family.
 Evidence of the couple's professional interests is everywhere.
 One wall is lined with works of art made by women; they include a doll-sized white dress that was Ms. Webster's when she was a baby, hand-embroidered by her grandmother.
 Mr. Webster's study stands as a shrine to his career; among the photos of stars of the classical music world is one of the conductor Seiji Ozawa playing softball with Mr. Webster in Japan; as Mr. Webster remembers it, he graciously allowed the game between Mr. Ozawa's team and his team to end in a tie.
 And the economically integrated neighborhood that excited the Websters half a century ago has long since become a reality.
 ''In the middle of our block there's public housing,'' Ms. Webster said. ''On one corner there's subsidized housing for the elderly. On the other corner there's middle-income Mitchell-Lama housing.'' There are the impeccably restored brownstones. 
 ''And,'' she added, alluding to a popular grocery on Columbus Avenue, ''we all shop at Mani's.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW DIMENSIONS: Albert and Sara Webster have redone their brownstone twice since 1965, most recently 10 years ago, to reconfigure a nest empty of children. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); FAMILY (77%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CHILDREN (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



539 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Offshore Tournaments Canceled by Oil Spill

BYLINE: By ANDREW W. LEHREN

 BODY:
Shawna Meisner, the director of the Emerald Coast Blue Marlin Classic offshore sports fishing tournament in the Gulf of Mexico, had been one of the last holdouts. But on Thursday -- five days before the tournament's start -- the spreading BP oil spill left her little choice.
 Meisner canceled the event, a team fishing competition in Destin, Fla. It is ranked by Marlin magazine as having the gulf's richest purse, reaching a peak of $1.5 million in 2008. 
 In the wake of the oil spill, many of the top fishing events in the gulf have been postponed or canceled. Those in recreational fishing regard the sport as a key part of the region's economy. Industry-financed studies estimate that the annual number of day trips on boats to fish in the gulf is 23.5 million, in addition to millions fishing from the shoreline.
 Although a small percentage of boating anglers compete in offshore tournaments, they are among the biggest spenders. Each team pays $5,000 to enter the two-day Emerald Coast competition, and the fees can reach more than $50,000 depending on the categories it competes in.
 About half a dozen other key tournaments in June and July had been canceled, but Meisner and her tournament committee persisted. In May, they issued a statement that they were ''proceeding with optimism.'' 
 But some teams pulled out, anyway. About 20 remained last week, down from the more than 70 that typically compete. That decline was not the reason for the cancellation, Meisner said. The breaking point, she said, was when oil spread into the waters off the Florida Panhandle last week, leading to intermittent closures of a waterway that leads to deeper water. The federal authorities also widened the area closed to fishing.
 ''The long-reaching effect of canceling these events is devastating,'' said Jim Simons, the president of the World Billfish Series, a major championship in the rapidly growing sport.
 The World Billfish Series and the International Game Fishing Association, the two major offshore fishing series, choose top competitors from qualifying tournaments around the world. They will have to adjust their process for selecting the gulf fishing teams for their championships. 
 The Billfish Series championship is in December in Costa Rica. It plans to invite last year's top competitors in the gulf and will also allow those who just missed qualifying to enter. 
 The game fishing association runs its championship in Mexico. Dan Jacobs, the tournament director, said it was considering allowing those from the gulf who qualified last year to enter. It may also allow fishing clubs like Emerald Coast to designate representatives. 
 Previous tournaments that were canceled or postponed stretch from Pensacola, Fla., to Mobile Bay, Ala., Biloxi, Miss, and Venice, La. But the cancellations may benefit other competitions. Jacobs said several teams unable to take part in gulf tournaments planned to compete in events in Bermuda and elsewhere.
 In sport fishing competitions, teams essentially bet on who will catch particular kinds of fish. The prize money is divided among top finishers. In catch-and-release categories, teams document the number of fish they catch. Other winners are determined by the weight of individual fish brought to shore.
 ''It is no longer just a sport for the rich,'' Simons said. The number of anglers competing in the gulf has increased fivefold in the last decade, rising to about 5,000 people a year, mostly men. The growth has led to more tournaments, including the Emerald Coast competition, which started seven years ago. 
 Along with devastating the commercial fishing industry in the gulf, the oil spill is crippling the business of offshore recreational sport fishing. Offshore fishing, including tournaments, is worth $1.9 billion a year to the gulf region, based on an American Sportfishing Association-financed analysis of spending on items like hotels, docking and gear. The group said that millions of dollars had been lost.
 ''It's a disappointing season,'' said Jeff Shoults, a professional fisherman whose company owns the Mollie, a $3 million, 66-foot boat for deepwater fishing. He was among those who had planned to fish in the Destin tournament and four others in the gulf. 
 He estimated that in a typical year, his teams spent $80,000 to enter tournaments and grossed $250,000. 
 ''I don't go to practice; I go to win,'' Shoults said. 
 His boat is outfitted with radar and satellite imaging to find seams where cold and warm water collide and fish are usually most plentiful. For a typical tournament, his boat may burn 1,500 gallons of fuel and venture more than 200 miles into the gulf in search of a prize blue marlin.
 Shoults, 45, conceded his training did not include going to the gym. He just fishes and tries to stay awake for long hours at sea. 
 ''It's a lot of Coca-Colas, Mountain Dews, anything with a lot of sugar,'' he said. ''When you catch a big fish, it's a great feeling. It's a fun ride back to the dock when you know you've got a winner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A weight record was set at the 2009 Emerald Coast Blue Marlin Classic. The 2010 event was canceled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORTHWEST FLORIDA DAILY NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT FISHING (93%); OIL SPILLS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



540 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: TAKING QUESTIONS THE COURT REPORTER; Fluent in a Language Few Can Understand

BYLINE: By EMILY S. RUEB

 BODY:
Following is the third and final set of responses from Rebecca Forman, who has been working as a court reporter in the Manhattan federal courthouse since February 2003.You must come into proximity with a lot of violent criminals on a day-to-day basis. Do you ever fear for your personal safety? Also, would you fear for your safety if the 9/11 trials were held in your courthouse?
 - Posted by Jonathan SandbergCourthouse security is always a concern. In 2005, in an Atlanta courthouse, a defendant got ahold of a gun and killed a sheriff's deputy, a judge and a court reporter. In 2008, in the federal courthouse in Brooklyn, a defendant attacked a prosecutor in the courtroom, and the court reporter tackled the defendant. 
 The United States marshals work extremely hard to keep everyone safe in the courthouse where I work, and I think they do a great job. I feel safe here. If the 9/11 trials are going to be held here, I would still feel safe.I was a student a few years ago at StenoTech Career Institute in Piscataway, N.J., and stopped going because I just felt like it was so frustrating. I'm regretting it tremendously today and am currently attending an online court reporting school. I'm not sure if this is the right way to do it because I feel like a profession like this needs to be taken on campus. I'm a bit confused on what to do. I really want to make this my career, although sometimes I hear that one day they will do away with court reporters. What do you think?
 - Posted by Keri HCourt reporting school is frustrating, unfortunately. I often say that learning to be a court reporter is like learning a foreign language and learning to play the piano combined. It requires a lot of practice and patience.
 I know there are online programs for court reporting, but I don't know anyone who has graduated from one. N.C.R.A. has a mentoring program for students and new reporters. You can see if they have a mentor available who graduated from an online program.
 When I was in court reporting school, one of my teachers said the way not to be replaced by electronic recording devices in the future was to be the best reporter possible. To me, that means providing real-time transcription and keeping up with the technological advances in court reporting. As long as we can stay one step ahead and provide services that are not possible with electronic reporting, we'll have a job.
 I think the demise of court reporters is sort of a self-fulfilling prophecy. People hear that it's not a career with a future, so they don't go to school for it. Without new graduates, there are not enough reporters to fill positions, and courts have to find ways to make a transcript without a court reporter.I'm currently in 100 w.p.m., and my overall goal is to graduate within a year and be in N.Y.C. ( I'm attending school in Texas ) as a working reporter. I see you went straight into the courts after you graduated. From what I've heard that's usually very hard to do being as you usually need years of experience. Was I misinformed? Do you think I will have trouble finding a job in N.Y.C.? Also, do you do any mentoring? Thanks so much.
 - Posted by LindseyWhen I was about to graduate from court reporting school, my teacher told the class that the Manhattan district attorney's office was giving a test for grand jury stenographers. I took the test and was lucky enough to be hired. I think working in court is great for a new reporter, because you get a lot of support and help from more experienced co-workers. Freelancing, where a reporter works for an agency and is sent out for deposition work, can be a bit isolating for a new reporter.
 You're right, many court jobs require experienced reporters. For example, New York State Supreme Court requires either four years of experience or three years of experience and a degree from a court reporting school. However, there are some court jobs that require only a degree from a court reporting school.
 There are many court reporting opportunities in New York City. I have never met a reporter who wanted to work in New York but couldn't find a job. I'm not sure how many other careers you can say that about, especially in today's economy.Are there ever cases that you just don't feel comfortable sitting in on? Do you have the option to say no to certain cases?
 - Posted by LisaHi, Lisa. I work for the court and I'm 100 percent impartial in the courtroom. I am there solely to be the guardian of the record and to produce an accurate, verbatim transcript. So while there are certain topics that can come up that would not be my first choice to hear about, I have an important job to do, and my personal beliefs or feelings do not play a part in the job.I work in the state court system and often wonder what qualities do court reporters most appreciate in the judges with whom they work? And perhaps more important (at least for some to hopefully learn from this), what qualities or habits do reporters like least in the judges with whom they work?
 - Posted by Joseph F. CraterI think, in general, court reporters like to be treated as hard-working professionals and as a member of the team of people required to make a courtroom work. We, of course, love it when anyone speaks slowly, clearly and loudly, and we also appreciate the occasional bathroom break.Is the job boring? Do you ever drift off while court is in session? Have you ever fallen asleep during the proceedings? The stenographers that I've seen in court sometimes seem as if they are in another world, thinking about what's for dinner. Do you get decent pay? And how many men are there in the profession? Are you allowed to do freelance work for outside depositions and such?
 - Posted by YThe job can be boring. I find many of the proceedings interesting, especially the criminal cases, because someone's liberty is at stake. The least interesting case I can remember was about rusty steel and why it rusted and whose fault it was that the steel rusted. The trial lasted two weeks. Even the attorneys working on the case were bored. I have never fallen asleep, however. I do think about other things while I'm in court sometimes. It's kind of like driving a car, where you can drive safely but also think about what's for dinner.Do you form opinions on the cases you report? Do you hope one side wins over the other, and are you disappointed when they don't? Have you ever had to make an effort to control your emotions?
 - Posted by SamI never hope one side wins over the other. I have gotten emotional in court, and it can be difficult. Watching a defendant being sentenced to 30 years in prison while his mother and wife are in the audience crying is sad. One time, an incarcerated defendant was being led out of the cellblock, and her 3-year-old son was crying out for his mommy. I went home and hugged my children extra tight that night. I also want to laugh in court sometimes, and I have to bite my cheek and concentrate hard so I don't.How do you justify the fact that you receive one salary from the government and a second salary to prepare paper transcripts at the same time the government is providing a salary?
 - Posted by ProgressI'm paid by the government for being in the courtroom. When an attorney wants a transcript, I transcribe it when I'm not in court, using my own computer, software, toner, printer, paper, binders, etc. The court does not provide any of my equipment or supplies, and the court is not paying me for the time that I spend transcribing.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AT THE KEYS: Rebecca Forman, a court reporter in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); COURT REPORTING SERVICES (89%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MARSHALS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); SHERIFFS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (72%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (62%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



541 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4860 words

HEADLINE: My Father's Broken Heart

BYLINE: By KATY BUTLER. 
Katy Butler lives in Mill Valley, Calif., and teaches memoir writing at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur.

 BODY:
One October afternoon three years ago while I was visiting my parents, my mother made a request I dreaded and longed to fulfill. She had just poured me a cup of Earl Grey from her Japanese iron teapot, shaped like a little pumpkin; outside, two cardinals splashed in the birdbath in the weak Connecticut sunlight. Her white hair was gathered at the nape of her neck, and her voice was low. ''Please help me get Jeff's pacemaker turned off,'' she said, using my father's first name. I nodded, and my heart knocked.
 Upstairs, my 85-year-old father, Jeffrey, a retired Wesleyan University professor who suffered from dementia, lay napping in what was once their shared bedroom. Sewn into a hump of skin and muscle below his right clavicle was the pacemaker that helped his heart outlive his brain. The size of a pocket watch, it had kept his heart beating rhythmically for nearly five years. Its battery was expected to last five more.
 After tea, I knew, my mother would help him from his narrow bed with its mattress encased in waterproof plastic. She would take him to the toilet, change his diaper and lead him tottering to the couch, where he would sit mutely for hours, pretending to read Joyce Carol Oates, the book falling in his lap as he stared out the window. 
 I don't like describing what dementia did to my father -- and indirectly to my mother -- without telling you first that my parents loved each other, and I loved them. That my mother, Valerie, could stain a deck and sew an evening dress from a photo in Vogue and thought of my father as her best friend. That my father had never given up easily on anything.
 Born in South Africa, he lost his left arm in World War II, but built floor-to-ceiling bookcases for our living room; earned a Ph.D. from Oxford; coached rugby; and with my two brothers as crew, sailed his beloved Rhodes 19 on Long Island Sound. When I was a child, he woke me, chortling, with his gloss on a verse from ''The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam'': ''Awake, my little one! Before life's liquor in its cup be dry!'' At bedtime he tucked me in, quoting ''Hamlet'' : ''May flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!''
 Now I would look at him and think of Anton Chekhov, who died of tuberculosis in 1904. ''Whenever there is someone in a family who has long been ill, and hopelessly ill,'' he wrote, ''there come painful moments when all timidly, secretly, at the bottom of their hearts long for his death.'' A century later, my mother and I had come to long for the machine in my father's chest to fail.
 Until 2001, my two brothers and I -- all living in California -- assumed that our parents would enjoy long, robust old ages capped by some brief, undefined final illness. Thanks to their own healthful habits and a panoply of medical advances -- vaccines, antibiotics, airport defibrillators, 911 networks and the like -- they weren't likely to die prematurely of the pneumonias, influenzas and heart attacks that decimated previous generations. They walked every day. My mother practiced yoga. My father was writing a history of his birthplace, a small South African town.
 In short, they were seemingly among the lucky ones for whom the American medical system, despite its fragmentation, inequity and waste, works quite well. Medicare and supplemental insurance paid for their specialists and their trusted Middletown internist, the lean, bespectacled Robert Fales, who, like them, was skeptical of medical overdoing. ''I bonded with your parents, and you don't bond with everybody,'' he once told me. ''It's easier to understand someone if they just tell it like it is from their heart and their soul.''
 They were also stoics and religious agnostics. They signed living wills and durable power-of-attorney documents for health care. My mother, who watched friends die slowly of cancer, had an underlined copy of the Hemlock Society's ''Final Exit'' in her bookcase. Even so, I watched them lose control of their lives to a set of perverse financial incentives -- for cardiologists, hospitals and especially the manufacturers of advanced medical devices -- skewed to promote maximum treatment. At a point hard to precisely define, they stopped being beneficiaries of the war on sudden death and became its victims.
 Things took their first unexpected turn on Nov. 13, 2001, when my father -- then 79, pacemakerless and seemingly healthy -- collapsed on my parents' kitchen floor in Middletown, making burbling sounds. He had suffered a stroke.
 He came home six weeks later permanently incapable of completing a sentence. But as I've said, he didn't give up easily, and he doggedly learned again how to fasten his belt; to peck out sentences on his computer; to walk alone, one foot dragging, to the university pool for water aerobics. He never again put on a shirt without help or looked at the book he had been writing. One day he haltingly told my mother, ''I don't know who I am anymore.''
 His stroke devastated two lives. The day before, my mother was an upper-middle-class housewife who practiced calligraphy in her spare time. Afterward, she was one of tens of millions of people in America, most of them women, who help care for an older family member.
 Their numbers grow each day. Thanks to advanced medical technologies, elderly people now survive repeated health crises that once killed them, and so the ''oldest old'' have become the nation's most rapidly growing age group. Nearly a third of Americans over 85 have dementia (a condition whose prevalence rises in direct relationship to longevity). Half need help with at least one practical, life-sustaining activity, like getting dressed or making breakfast. Even though a capable woman was hired to give my dad showers, my 77-year-old mother found herself on duty more than 80 hours a week. Her blood pressure rose and her weight fell. On a routine visit to Dr. Fales, she burst into tears. She was put on sleeping pills and antidepressants.
 My father said he came to believe that she would have been better off if he had died. ''She'd have weeped the weep of a widow,'' he told me in his garbled, poststroke speech, on a walk we took together in the fall of 2002. ''And then she would have been all right.'' It was hard to tell which of them was suffering more.
 As we shuffled through the fallen leaves that day, I thought of my father's father, Ernest Butler. He was 79 when he died in 1965, before pacemakers, implanted cardiac defibrillators, stents and replacement heart valves routinely staved off death among the very old. After completing some long-unfinished chairs, he cleaned his woodshop, had a heart attack and died two days later in a plain hospital bed. As I held my dad's soft, mottled hand, I vainly wished him a similar merciful death.
 A few days before Christmas that year, after a vigorous session of water exercises, my father developed a painful inguinal (intestinal) hernia. My mother took him to Fales, who sent them to a local surgeon, who sent them to a cardiologist for a preoperative clearance. After an electrocardiogram recorded my father's slow heartbeat -- a longstanding and symptomless condition not uncommon in the very old -- the cardiologist, John Rogan, refused to clear my dad for surgery unless he received a pacemaker.
 Without the device, Dr. Rogan told me later, my father could have died from cardiac arrest during surgery or perhaps within a few months. It was the second time Rogan had seen my father. The first time, about a year before, he recommended the device for the same slow heartbeat. That time, my then-competent and prestroke father expressed extreme reluctance, on the advice of Fales, who considered it overtreatment.
 My father's medical conservatism, I have since learned, is not unusual. According to an analysis by the Dartmouth Atlas medical-research group, patients are far more likely than their doctors to reject aggressive treatments when fully informed of pros, cons and alternatives -- information, one study suggests, that nearly half of patients say they don't get. And although many doctors assume that people want to extend their lives, many do not. In a 1997 study in The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 30 percent of seriously ill people surveyed in a hospital said they would ''rather die'' than live permanently in a nursing home. In a 2008 study in The Journal of the American College of Cardiology, 28 percent of patients with advanced heart failure said they would trade one day of excellent health for another two years in their current state.
 When Rogan suggested the pacemaker for the second time, my father was too stroke-damaged to discuss, and perhaps even to weigh, his tradeoffs. The decision fell to my mother -- anxious to relieve my father's pain, exhausted with caregiving, deferential to doctors and no expert on high-tech medicine. She said yes. One of the most important medical decisions of my father's life was over in minutes. Dr. Fales was notified by fax.
 Fales loved my parents, knew their suffering close at hand, continued to oppose a pacemaker and wasn't alarmed by death. If he had had the chance to sit down with my parents, he could have explained that the pacemaker's battery would last 10 years and asked whether my father wanted to live to be 89 in his nearly mute and dependent state. He could have discussed the option of using a temporary external pacemaker that, I later learned, could have seen my dad safely through surgery. But my mother never consulted Fales. And the system would have effectively penalized him if she had. Medicare would have paid him a standard office-visit rate of $54 for what would undoubtedly have been a long meeting -- and nothing for phone calls to work out a plan with Rogan and the surgeon.
 Medicare has made minor improvements since then, and in the House version of the health care reform bill debated last year, much better payments for such conversations were included. But after the provision was distorted as reimbursement for ''death panels,'' it was dropped. In my father's case, there was only a brief informed-consent process, covering the boilerplate risks of minor surgery, handled by the general surgeon.
 I believe that my father's doctors did their best within a compartmentalized and time-pressured medical system. But in the absence of any other guiding hand, there is no doubt that economics helped shape the wider context in which doctors made decisions. Had we been at the Mayo Clinic -- where doctors are salaried, medical records are electronically organized and care is coordinated by a single doctor -- things might have turned out differently. But Middletown is part of the fee-for-service medical economy. Doctors peddle their wares on a piecework basis; communication among them is haphazard; thinking is often short term; nobody makes money when medical interventions are declined; and nobody is in charge except the marketplace.
 And so on Jan. 2, 2003, at Middlesex Hospital, the surgeon implanted my father's pacemaker using local anesthetic. Medicare paid him $461 and the hospital a flat fee of about $12,000, of which an estimated $7,500 went to St. Jude Medical, the maker of the device. The hernia was fixed a few days later.
 It was a case study in what primary-care doctors have long bemoaned: that Medicare rewards doctors far better for doing procedures than for assessing whether they should be done at all. The incentives for overtreatment continue, said Dr. Ted Epperly, the board chairman of the American Academy of Family Physicians, because those who profit from them -- specialists, hospitals, drug companies and the medical-device manufacturers -- spend money lobbying Congress and the public to keep it that way.
 Last year, doctors, hospitals, drug companies, medical-equipment manufacturers and other medical professionals spent $545 million on lobbying, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. This may help explain why researchers estimate that 20 to 30 percent of Medicare's $510 billion budget goes for unnecessary tests and treatment. Why cost-containment received short shrift in health care reform. Why physicians like Fales net an average of $173,000 a year, while noninvasive cardiologists like Rogan net about $419,000.
 The system rewarded nobody for saying ''no'' or even ''wait'' -- not even my frugal, intelligent, Consumer-Reports-reading mother. Medicare and supplemental insurance covered almost every penny of my father's pacemaker. My mother was given more government-mandated consumer information when she bought a new Camry a year later.
 And so my father's electronically managed heart -- now requiring frequent monitoring, paid by Medicare -- became part of the $24 billion worldwide cardiac-device industry and an indirect subsidizer of the fiscal health of American hospitals. The profit margins that manufacturers earn on cardiac devices is close to 30 percent. Cardiac procedures and diagnostics generate about 20 percent of hospital revenues and 30 percent of profits.
 Shortly after New Year's 2003, my mother belatedly called and told me about the operations, which went off without a hitch. She didn't call earlier, she said, because she didn't want to worry me. My heart sank, but I said nothing. It is one thing to silently hope that your beloved father's heart might fail. It is another to actively abet his death.
 The pacemaker bought my parents two years of limbo, two of purgatory and two of hell. At first they soldiered on, with my father no better and no worse. My mother reread Jon Kabat-Zinn's ''Full Catastrophe Living,'' bought a self-help book on patience and rose each morning to meditate.
 In 2005, the age-related degeneration that had slowed my father's heart attacked his eyes, lungs, bladder and bowels. Clots as narrow as a single human hair lodged in tiny blood vessels in his brain, killing clusters of neurons by depriving them of oxygen. Long partly deaf, he began losing his sight to wet macular degeneration, requiring ocular injections that cost nearly $2,000 each. A few months later, he forgot his way home from the university pool. He grew incontinent. He was collapsing physically, like an ancient, shored-up house.
 In the summer of 2006, he fell in the driveway and suffered a brain hemorrhage. Not long afterward, he spent a full weekend compulsively brushing and rebrushing his teeth. ''The Jeff I married . . . is no longer the same person,'' my mother wrote in the journal a social worker had suggested she keep. ''My life is in ruins. This is horrible, and I have lasted for five years.'' His pacemaker kept on ticking.
 When bioethicists debate life-extending technologies, the effects on people like my mother rarely enter the calculus. But a 2007 Ohio State University study of the DNA of family caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease showed that the ends of their chromosomes, called telomeres, had degraded enough to reflect a four-to-eight-year shortening of lifespan. By that reckoning, every year that the pacemaker gave my irreparably damaged father took from my then-vigorous mother an equal year.
 When my mother was upset, she meditated or cleaned house. When I was upset, I Googled. In 2006, I discovered that pacemakers could be deactivated without surgery. Nurses, doctors and even device salesmen had done so, usually at deathbeds. A white ceramic device, like a TV remote and shaped like the wands that children use to blow bubbles, could be placed around the hump on my father's chest. Press a few buttons and the electrical pulses that ran down the leads to his heart would slow until they were no longer effective. My father's heart, I learned, would probably not stop. It would just return to its old, slow rhythm. If he was lucky, he might suffer cardiac arrest and die within weeks, perhaps in his sleep. If he was unlucky, he might linger painfully for months while his lagging heart failed to suffuse his vital organs with sufficient oxygenated blood.
 If we did nothing, his pacemaker would not stop for years. Like the tireless charmed brooms in Disney's ''Fantasia,'' it would prompt my father's heart to beat after he became too demented to speak, sit up or eat. It would keep his heart pulsing after he drew his last breath. If he was buried, it would send signals to his dead heart in the coffin. If he was cremated, it would have to be cut from his chest first, to prevent it from exploding and damaging the walls or hurting an attendant.
 On the Internet, I discovered that the pacemaker -- somewhat like the ventilator, defibrillator and feeding tube -- was first an exotic, stopgap device, used to carry a handful of patients through a brief medical crisis. Then it morphed into a battery-powered, implantable and routine treatment. When Medicare approved the pacemaker for reimbursement in 1966, the market exploded. Today pacemakers are implanted annually in more than 400,000 Americans, about 80 percent of whom are over 65. According to calculations by the Dartmouth Atlas research group using Medicare data, nearly a fifth of new recipients who receive pacemakers annually -- 76,000 -- are over 80. The typical patient with a cardiac device today is an elderly person suffering from at least one other severe chronic illness.
 Over the years, as technology has improved, the battery life of these devices lengthened. The list of heart conditions for which they are recommended has grown. In 1984, the treatment guidelines from the American College of Cardiology declared that pacemakers were strongly recommended as ''indicated'' or mildly approved as ''reasonable'' for 56 heart conditions and ''not indicated'' for 31 more. By 2008, the list for which they were strongly or mildly recommended expanded to 88, with most of the increase in the lukewarm ''reasonable'' category.
 The research backing the expansion of diagnoses was weak. Over all, only 5 percent of the positive recommendations were supported by research from multiple double-blind randomized studies, the gold standard of evidence-based medicine. And 58 percent were based on no studies at all, only a ''consensus of expert opinion.'' Of the 17 cardiologists who wrote the 2008 guidelines, 11 received financing from cardiac-device makers or worked at institutions receiving it. Seven, due to the extent of their financial connections, were recused from voting on the guidelines they helped write.
 This pattern -- a paucity of scientific support and a plethora of industry connections -- holds across almost all cardiac treatments, according to the cardiologist Pierluigi Tricoci of Duke University's Clinical Research Institute. Last year in The Journal of the American Medical Association, Tricoci and his co-authors wrote that only 11 percent of 2,700 widely used cardiac-treatment guidelines were based on that gold standard. Most were based only on expert opinion.
 Experts are as vulnerable to conflicts of interest as researchers are, the authors warned, because ''expert clinicians are also those who are likely to receive honoraria, speakers bureau [fees], consulting fees or research support from industry.'' They called the current cardiac-research agenda ''strongly influenced by industry's natural desire to introduce new products.''
 Perhaps it's no surprise that I also discovered others puzzling over cardiologists who recommended pacemakers for relatives with advanced dementia. ''78-year-old mother-in-law has dementia; severe short-term memory issues,'' read an Internet post by ''soninlaw'' on Elderhope.com, a caregivers' site, in 2007. ''On a routine trip to her cardiologist, doctor decides she needs a pacemaker. . . . Anyone have a similar encounter?''
 By the summer of 2007, my dad had forgotten the purpose of a dinner napkin and had to be coached to remove his slippers before he tried to put on his shoes. After a lifetime of promoting my father's health, my mother reversed course. On a routine visit, she asked Rogan to deactivate the pacemaker. ''It was hard,'' she later told me. ''I was doing for Jeff what I would have wanted Jeff to do for me.'' Rogan soon made it clear he was morally opposed. ''It would have been like putting a pillow over your father's head,'' he later told me.
 Not long afterward, my mother declined additional medical tests and refused to put my father on a new anti-dementia drug and a blood thinner with troublesome side effects. ''I take responsibility for whatever,'' she wrote in her journal that summer. ''Enough of all this overkill! It's killing me! Talk about quality of life -- what about mine?''
 Then came the autumn day when she asked for my help, and I said yes. I told myself that we were simply trying to undo a terrible medical mistake. I reminded myself that my dad had rejected a pacemaker when his faculties were intact. I imagined, as a bioethicist had suggested, having a 15-minute conversation with my independent, predementia father in which I saw him shaking his head in horror over any further extension of what was not a ''life,'' but a prolonged and attenuated dying. None of it helped. I knew that once he died, I would dream of him and miss his mute, loving smiles. I wanted to melt into the arms of the father I once had and ask him to handle this. Instead, I felt as if I were signing on as his executioner and that I had no choice.
 Over the next five months, my mother and I learned many things. We were told, by the Hemlock Society's successor, Compassion and Choices, that as my father's medical proxy, my mother had the legal right to ask for the withdrawal of any treatment and that the pacemaker was, in theory at least, a form of medical treatment. We learned that although my father's living will requested no life support if he were comatose or dying, it said nothing about dementia and did not define a pacemaker as life support. We learned that if we called 911, emergency medical technicians would not honor my father's do-not-resuscitate order unless he wore a state-issued orange hospital bracelet. We also learned that no cardiology association had given its members clear guidance on when, or whether, deactivating pacemakers was ethical.
 (Last month that changed. The Heart Rhythm Society and the American Heart Association issued guidelines declaring that patients or their legal surrogates have the moral and legal right to request the withdrawal of any medical treatment, including an implanted cardiac device. It said that deactivating a pacemaker was neither euthanasia nor assisted suicide, and that a doctor could not be compelled to do so in violation of his moral values. In such cases, it continued, doctors ''cannot abandon the patient but should involve a colleague who is willing to carry out the procedure.'' This came, of course, too late for us.)
 In the spring of 2008, things got even worse. My father took to roaring like a lion at his caregivers. At home in California, I searched the Internet for a sympathetic cardiologist and a caregiver to put my Dad to bed at night. My frayed mother began to shout at him, and their nighttime scenes were heartbreaking and frightening. An Alzheimer's Association support-group leader suggested that my brothers and I fly out together and institutionalize my father. This leader did not know my mother's formidable will and had never heard her speak about her wedding vows or her love.
 Meanwhile my father drifted into what nurses call ''the dwindles'': not sick enough to qualify for hospice care, but sick enough to never get better. He fell repeatedly at night and my mother could not pick him up. Finally, he was weak enough to qualify for palliative care, and a team of nurses and social workers visited the house. His chest grew wheezy. My mother did not request antibiotics. In mid-April 2008, he was taken by ambulance to Middlesex Hospital's hospice wing, suffering from pneumonia.
 Pneumonia was once called ''the old man's friend'' for its promise of an easy death. That's not what I saw when I flew in. On morphine, unreachable, his eyes shut, my beloved father was breathing as hard and regularly as a machine.
 My mother sat holding his hand, weeping and begging for forgiveness for her impatience. She sat by him in agony. She beseeched his doctors and nurses to increase his morphine dose and to turn off the pacemaker. It was a weekend, and the doctor on call at Rogan's cardiology practice refused authorization, saying that my father ''might die immediately.'' And so came five days of hard labor. My mother and I stayed by him in shifts, while his breathing became increasingly ragged and his feet slowly started to turn blue. I began drafting an appeal to the hospital ethics committee. My brothers flew in.
 On a Tuesday afternoon, with my mother at his side, my father stopped breathing. A hospice nurse hung a blue light on the outside of his hospital door. Inside his chest, his pacemaker was still quietly pulsing.
 After his memorial service in the Wesleyan University chapel, I carried a box from the crematory into the woods of an old convent where he and I often walked. It was late April, overcast and cold. By the side of a stream, I opened the box, scooped out a handful of ashes and threw them into the swirling water. There were some curious spiraled metal wires, perhaps the leads of his pacemaker, mixed with the white dust and pieces of bone.
 A year later, I took my mother to meet a heart surgeon in a windowless treatment room at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. She was 84, with two leaking heart valves. Her cardiologist had recommended open-heart surgery, and I was hoping to find a less invasive approach. When the surgeon asked us why we were there, my mother said, ''To ask questions.'' She was no longer a trusting and deferential patient. Like me, she no longer saw doctors -- perhaps with the exception of Fales -- as healers or her fiduciaries. They were now skilled technicians with their own agendas. But I couldn't help feeling that something precious -- our old faith in a doctor's calling, perhaps, or in a healing that is more than a financial transaction or a reflexive fixing of broken parts -- had been lost.
 The surgeon was forthright: without open-heart surgery, there was a 50-50 chance my mother would die within two years. If she survived the operation, she would probably live to be 90. And the risks? He shrugged. Months of recovery. A 5 percent chance of stroke. Some possibility, he acknowledged at my prompting, of postoperative cognitive decline. (More than half of heart-bypass patients suffer at least a 20 percent reduction in mental function.) My mother lifted her trouser leg to reveal an anklet of orange plastic: her do-not-resuscitate bracelet. The doctor recoiled. No, he would not operate with that bracelet in place. It would not be fair to his team. She would be revived if she collapsed. ''If I have a stroke,'' my mother said, nearly in tears, ''I want you to let me go.'' What about a minor stroke, he said -- a little weakness on one side?
 I kept my mouth shut. I was there to get her the information she needed and to support whatever decision she made. If she emerged from surgery intellectually damaged, I would bring her to a nursing home in California and try to care for her the way she had cared for my father at such cost to her own health. The thought terrified me.
 The doctor sent her up a floor for an echocardiogram. A half-hour later, my mother came back to the waiting room and put on her black coat. ''No,'' she said brightly, with the clarity of purpose she had shown when she asked me to have the pacemaker deactivated. ''I will not do it.''
 She spent the spring and summer arranging house repairs, thinning out my father's bookcases and throwing out the files he collected so lovingly for the book he never finished writing. She told someone that she didn't want to leave a mess for her kids. Her chest pain worsened, and her breathlessness grew severe. ''I'm aching to garden,'' she wrote in her journal. ''But so it goes. ACCEPT ACCEPT ACCEPT.''
 Last August, she had a heart attack and returned home under hospice care. One evening a month later, another heart attack. One of my brothers followed her ambulance to the hospice wing where we had sat for days by my father's bed. The next morning, she took off her silver earrings and told the nurses she wanted to stop eating and drinking, that she wanted to die and never go home. Death came to her an hour later, while my brother was on the phone to me in California -- almost as mercifully as it had come to my paternal grandfather. She was continent and lucid to her end.
 A week later, at the same crematory near Long Island Sound, my brothers and I watched through a plate-glass window as a cardboard box containing her body, dressed in a scarlet silk ao dai she had sewn herself, slid into the flames. The next day, the undertaker delivered a plastic box to the house where, for 45 of their 61 years together, my parents had loved and looked after each other, humanly and imperfectly. There were no bits of metal mixed with the fine white powder and the small pieces of her bones.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Connecticut home of the author's parents. The photo on the wall is of her parents as a young couple. (MM38-MM39)
Katy Butler sorting through her parents' belongings after their deaths. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE RICHARDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM42
 MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY (78%); DEMENTIA (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); TUBERCULOSIS (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AFRICA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



542 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Perspective On the Spill (Before It Began)

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
AMERICA'S addiction to oil is making itself felt on the blackened wings of pelicans in the Gulf of Mexico. As BP takes heat for the environmental and economic damage caused by the Deepwater Horizon spill, a timely new book by Tom Bower titled ''Oil: Money, Politics, and Power in the 21st Century'' (Grand Central, $26.99), reminds us that our insatiable thirst for oil makes us as much a part of the larger problem as the major oil companies.
 ''We are all simultaneously both the victims and the beneficiaries of conflicting realities in the search, production and trading of oil,'' Mr. Bower writes, adding that ''oil is a uniquely human story.'' 
 Sweeping in scope and densely detailed, ''Oil'' is in the tradition of two earlier books about the oil industry, ''The Seven Sisters'' by Anthony Sampson (1975) and ''The Prize'' by Daniel Yergin (1991). Although it is slightly less accessible than the first and not as eloquently elucidating as the second, Mr. Bower's 490-page book succeeds in offering a rare and highly illuminating global perspective on the industry over the last two decades.
 A British writer, broadcaster, and self-described ''investigative historian,'' Mr. Bower is the author of more than a dozen books, including biographies of the former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, the entrepreneur Richard Branson, the former media baron Conrad Black and the late tycoon Robert Maxwell. He also wrote ''Broken Dreams,'' an expose of finances in British soccer.
 As it happens, BP figures most prominently in Mr. Bower's narrative, even though ''Oil'' was completed months before the company's Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded in April. It could be -- and perhaps should be -- recast and re-edited in light of the spill. Even without the benefit of hindsight, though, Mr. Bower's description of BP's recent history shows how it made itself vulnerable to the disaster now unfolding in the gulf. 
 BP, like its rivals Exxon-Mobil, Shell, and Chevron, found itself confronting a radically changed geopolitical landscape at the end of the last century, Mr. Bower says.
 ''Unlike oil's first century, over the last 20 years no single nation, government, cartel, or corporation has controlled its fate,'' he writes. ''Markets have determined prices and investment, but there has been a twist. Because the oil-producing countries retain up to 90 percent of the profits, the Western oil companies have the delicate task of persuading rightly self-interested governments to share their wealth and sell access to their reserves.'' 
 After the nationalization of its oil assets in Libya and Kuwait, BP might have gone bankrupt, Mr. Bower says, had it not been for the company's share of oil reserves in Alaska's North Slope. The author says John Browne, BP's chief executive from 1998 to 2007, transformed the company from ''an also-ran into a major challenger to Exxon'' in the late 1990s by acquiring the American oil companies Arco and Amoco.
 The author also says Mr. Browne concentrated on cost-cutting.
 ''Persuaded during his studies at Stanford in California that BP's experts could be replaced by consultants, he appeared to become a financial executive surrounded by accountants focused on balance sheets to satisfy the shareholders, rather than harnessing engineering skills to manage a project,'' Mr. Bower writes.
 Mr. Browne would also acknowledge the existence of global warming, and would exhort his competitors to join with the company in fighting it. He proceeded to rebrand BP under the environmentally friendly tagline ''Beyond Petroleum.'' 
 The company also became the largest lease holder in the gulf area and the owner of one-third of all the oil discovered there. But BP's cleverly constructed public image was soon marred by disaster. In March 2005, the company's aging refinery in Texas City, Tex., exploded, killing 15 workers and injuring more than 170 others. 
 In July 2005, Hurricane Dennis struck the rig Thunder Horse, causing both an oil leak and industrywide ridicule of BP.
 ''None of BP's designing engineers had taken into account the fact that only valves manufactured from nickel could sustain the extraordinary pressures on the seabed; and the welding had been faulty,'' Mr. Bower says. 
 UNDAUNTED, Mr. Browne tried to increase BP's oil reserves through a partnership with the Russian oil company TNK. But according to Mr. Bower, the alliance ultimately foundered on strains with the oligarch Mikhail Fridman and the increasingly nationalist political agenda of the Kremlin under Vladimir V. Putin. 
 Meanwhile, demand for oil in both the Western countries and in China continued to outpace supply, offering further incentive to BP's drilling efforts.
 ''Oil'' is flawed in that it tries to cover too much ground and too many subtopics. The narrative thread is confused and sometimes all but lost by the tactic of jumping back and forth among the perspectives of Mr. Browne, Mr. Fridman and Mr. Raymond, as well as those of David Rainey, BP's head of exploration, and other major industry players. 
 But ''Oil'' delivers a sobering and urgent message with BP as a case study. In May 2007, Mr. Browne resigned after losing a legal fight with a London tabloid over accounts of his relationship with a male lover. Mr. Browne was replaced at BP by the current chief executive, Tony Hayward, who pledged to make a ''fundamental shift in the way BP works.'' 
 The Deepwater Horizon catastrophe shows that the shift has been too late in coming for BP, the residents of the Gulf Coast and oil consumers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); HISTORY (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CARTELS (60%); SOCCER (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



543 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hopes Councils Will Help Undermine Taliban in Troubled Afghan Region

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL; Taimoor Shah contributed reporting from Kandahar, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
NADALI, Afghanistan -- More than 600 men, most of them farmers with weathered faces and rough hands, sat on the ground under an awning, waiting all day to deposit their ballots in plastic boxes. They had braved Taliban threats and road mines to come here to select a district council, part of a plan to strengthen local government in the most unstable parts of Afghanistan.
 ''The important thing is we are trying to build trust between the people and the government,'' said Qari Mukhtar Ahmad, a senior cleric attending the election last month. ''This district was under fighting for a long time, but now there is peace and we have to listen to the people and bring them together.''
 Peace is a relative term in Nadali, a district in the southern province of Helmand with one of highest levels of roadside bombs per square mile. Government officials still have to fly by helicopter from the provincial capital, Lashkar Gah, rather than risk the 20-minute drive. 
 The district encompasses Marja, a Taliban stronghold where United States Marines have been battling insurgents since February. Marja remains largely ungovernable, but the operation broke the hold of the Taliban in the rest of the district, making it stable enough to try to set up some local representation.
 The election here, an exercise in nation-building from the ground up, is part of a pilot program to set up 100 district councils to provide representative government in places where government has largely been absent. But the councils, backed by the British and American governments, also represent a critical element of counterinsurgency strategy: if they succeed, the hope is they will convince people that there is a viable alternative to Taliban rule.
 Since the beginning of the year, 35 such councils have begun work in nine provinces, and the American and British governments have pledged financing to establish 100 by July 2011, officials said. The ultimate goal is to have directly elected councils nationwide. 
 ''It is a vital, basic element of administration,'' said Christopher Demers, an adviser for the Agency for International Development in Kandahar. ''Building a people's body like this is important; it is giving people an opportunity to speak with the government.'' 
 Military officials in the United States-led coalition have often expressed frustration at the inability of the Afghan government to move quickly into secured areas and start governing. Yet Afghan officials say that it is a lengthy task to build an administration from scratch and gain the trust of a population that has suffered at the hands of predatory officials and repeated military operations by foreign forces in recent years. 
 In many districts, like Nadali, there is little government presence, often only a district chief and a police chief, both appointed by the central government in Kabul. They have few resources or personnel. Most district chiefs have no official car and an official budget of only $12 a year, the United Nations said last year.
 One of the successes of the Afghan government over the past eight years has been the National Solidarity Program, which set up small development councils across the country to undertake small reconstruction projects in every village. Yet it takes six months just to elect and train community councilors and two years to complete a village project, said Wais Ahmad Barmak, deputy minister in the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development, who has 30 years experience in community development.
 In the most insecure areas, like Helmand, the ministry has had to suspend its work, he said.
 In Nadali it has taken a year of visiting villages and persuading people to cooperate with the government to get them to the point of electing the district council, said the district chief, Habibullah Shamlani, a former police academy instructor. 
 After several gatherings around the district, 600 representatives were selected to come and vote for 45 councilors, all of whom must live in the district, a change from the absentee landlords or tribal chiefs who have traditionally made the decisions. 
 ''This district council should make all the decisions which affect the life of the district,'' said Jelani Popal, who leads the local government directorate, an arm of the national government that is running the program. ''We will use them for security reasons, like reintegration; they will be very active in deciding about development, but also governance; they can communicate or channel the grievances of the people to the governor and district governor.'' 
 Those who took part in the selection said they were taking the risk because they needed representatives to intercede with the government and the foreign forces on a variety of problems, from securing the release of detainees and compensation for war damage to resolving tribal and land disputes and winning development assistance for their areas. 
 ''We hope the government will do something for us if we have this district council and we can share our problems with the higher authorities,'' said Feda Muhammad Khan, an elected councilor. ''We are fed up with the fighting, and there is a drought, and we are hoping peace will knock on our door.'' 
 One of the main tasks of the council will be to persuade local insurgents to give up the fight and return to a peaceful life in the community, or if not to move away and stop destabilizing the area, Mr. Shamlani, the district chief, said. Already 40 people who were with the Taliban have been persuaded to quit fighting, he said. 
 ''We are working step by step,'' he said. ''We cannot put too much pressure on the people to reject the Taliban. Gradually now, people have found some courage to point out who are Taliban. If things are sustained the same as now I am hoping by next year we will know who is behind it all.'' 
 The key has been to deliver on promises of assistance and treat the people well, he said. ''It takes time; you have to go and talk a lot and spend money,'' he said. 
 But there is already evidence that the Taliban are fighting the councils much as they have resisted other government initiatives. 
 Some of the participants said they risked assassination if the Taliban in their area discovered that they were cooperating with the government. At least five councilors have been killed and one has been wounded since the four councils were formed in Helmand Province, officials said, presumably by the Taliban.
 And the representatives choosing the council here included Taliban members, several participants said. They, too, wanted representation to help win the release of their people who have been detained.
 Maj. Abdul Salam, who runs the police criminal department in Nadali, said the fact that 600 representatives showed up was itself a vote of confidence in the process.
 ''These people are here because they have some hope that the government is gaining strength and they are hoping they can defend themselves,'' he said. ''But you are right, they are in some danger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan civilians were searched last month near Marja, in a region where officials are experimenting with district elections but where violence instigated by the Taliban is still common. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); HELICOPTERS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); POLICE FORCES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); LASHKAR GAH, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



544 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Levity and Heft In an Exploration of Desire

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
IN Alain Resnais's splendid and elliptical 1977 film, ''Providence,'' the narrator -- a dying writer played with dyspeptic gusto by John Gielgud -- explains that it's been said his search for style has often come at the expense of feeling. ''I put it another way,'' he says, ''that style is feeling in its most elegant and economic expression.'' It's a wittily self-reflexive moment from a director who for much of his long, astonishing career has been accused of creating mere exercises in style, films without the requisite drama and empathetic characters with obvious motivations, a cinema (or should we say sin?) of the brain instead of the heart. 
 These were some of the charges leveled against ''Last Year at Marienbad,'' Mr. Resnais's second and still most famous feature, when it sent American critics into a frenzy in 1962. There were the advocates, like Dwight Macdonald, who, despite his doubts (''mind and senses are stimulated but the emotional and intellectual meaning eludes one''), nonetheless recognized its ambitions: ''It is the 'Finnegans Wake' of the movies.'' Others went in for the kill, like Pauline Kael, who, lumping it with Michelangelo Antonioni's ''Notte'' and Federico Fellini's ''Dolce Vita,'' sneered that ''Marienbad'' was a ''high-fashion experimental film.'' Ah, but what glorious fashion -- thank you, Chanel -- and what experimentation!
 His latest, ''Wild Grass,'' has its narrative kinks, but it's less formally audacious than ''Marienbad'' and is unlikely to generate much critical agita when it opens on Friday. A funny, soulful movie about love and other agonies, it was first shown at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival, where Mr. Resnais received a lifetime achievement award (possibly as consolation for not winning top honors), before it continued on the festival circuit. Its many partisans include Todd McCarthy, formerly of Variety (''the most sublime film I've seen in Cannes in years, a hallucinatory, entrancing work in which each scene is surprising''), and the British critic Jonathan Romney, of The Independent (the film ''sees Resnais finding a boisterous breath of new invention, spinning an extravagant, self-deconstructing, hugely entertaining story of unrequited love'').
 ''Wild Grass'' has been characterized as a comeback for this French New Wave veteran, who turned 88 on June 3. It isn't that he's been absent from film. His last feature, ''Private Fears in Public Places,'' a chamber piece set in a winter key, was released in the United States in 2007. Rather, in its harmonious balance between the playful (in tone and form) and the serious (in form and feeling), ''Wild Grass'' is among his finest in years, which makes it an event. Unlike his greatest work -- ''Marienbad,'' ''Hiroshima Mon Amour,'' ''Muriel,''''The War Is Over'' and the Holocaust documentary ''Night and Fog'' -- ''Wild Grass'' doesn't advance film language, but it does confirm its director as one of the giants of the art. 
 Adapted from the French novel ''The Incident,'' by Christian Gailly, the film opens with the theft of a purse belonging to Marguerite (Sabine Azema, a regular Resnais player and his companion), who has just finished shoe shopping. Right after the bag has been snatched, the always-surprising Mr. Resnais inserts a shot of it suspended in the air, a vision of flight -- it recalls a balloon and a kite -- that is echoed in his soaring cameras, Marguerite's avocation as a pilot and the film's own imaginative departure from narrative predictability. The theft leads to a curious relationship between Marguerite and a meddlesome stranger, Georges (Andre Dussollier, another Resnais favorite), who finds her discarded wallet. 
 Part of the pleasure of ''Wild Grass'' is how Mr. Resnais, who never truly toes a straight narrative line, brings the seemingly, almost impossibly incompatible Marguerite and Georges together. The two initially seem resistant to each other's charms, but Georges's inquisitiveness -- struck by the photo on Marguerite's pilot's license, he becomes attached to his idea of her -- brings them increasingly close. The film is partly, as Mr. Resnais explained in an interview I attended at Cannes last year, about ''the desire of desire.'' In ''Wild Grass'' this impulse doesn't just mean that Georges yearns for Marguerite or wants to want her. In longing, he runs as wild as the grass of the film's title. 
 As is so often the case in the movies -- and Mr. Resnais is a lifelong student of cinema, having received his first camera as a child -- the filmmaking itself helps bring Georges and Marguerite together. The movie is filled with coincidences and odd detours that recall the fantastical ways that movies unite people, whether on a dance floor, across a crowded room or through a wallet. Mr. Resnais uses an array of cinematic strategies to guide his characters toward each other, including a symbolic palette. Georges's true-blue, kind of blue wife, Suzanne, played by Anne Consigny, is associated with that color, while Marguerite is daubed in cautionary red (the shoes she buys, her wallet, her hair) and cautious yellow (her purse and car). 
 While we might think that art imitates life, the reverse is often true if not truer, and the movies, among their other lessons, teach us how to flirt, dress, smile (like Julia Roberts) or scowl (like Samuel L. Jackson). In an interview with the critic Scott Foundas, Mr. Resnais spoke of the interplay between reality and art, which is ''really a matter of life imitating art instead of the opposite -- the way we often feel the emotions of everyday life as if they had already registered on the screen.'' In ''Wild Grass'' there's a ravishing scene in which Georges and Marguerite walk side by side, not quite touching, toward the word ''cinema'' lighted in red above a movie theater. ''You could almost take each other's arm,'' says the narrator. 
 Certainly, an intimate stroll of this sort is often a prelude to the embrace, the kiss and the happily ever after that the movies have taught us to expect. The movies don't just teach us about life, after all -- they also teach us about cinema. Yet while they teach us how to watch them, they also teach us to expect and even demand predictability through genres, stars and the seamless narratives that Hollywood perfected and that Mr. Resnais loves but rejects. Writing about ''Marienbad,'' Dwight Macdonald rightly concluded that in that film ''the reflexes to which we have been conditioned by 50 years of cinema are constantly being stimulated, but we are as frustrated as Pavlov's dogs; the bell rings, but the food is not delivered.'' 
 The kibble isn't delivered in ''Marienbad,'' partly because Mr. Resnais's transitions between shots do not conform to mainstream cinema's familiar space-time coordinates, with images that don't necessarily ease together but jump and collide. In this Resnais film and others -- like ''Muriel'' (1963), which explores memory through World War II and the French-Algerian war, and ''Je T'Aime, Je T'Aime,'' a 1968 science-fiction film (his first and only) about a man who has returned to his past -- time is out of joint, as is space. ''I'm against illusionism,'' Mr. Resnais pronounced at Cannes. ''What I most like is when people speak of films as a show, and audiences know that they're sitting and watching a projected image.'' 
 Mr. Resnais likens such moviegoing to the theatrical experience. And while his work has long incorporated theatrical elements -- the curtain that divides Delphine Seyrig's apartment in ''Muriel,'' among many instances, and his fondness for exaggerated performance styles -- even his self-consciously theatrical gambits remain, with their camera moves and cuts, insistently cinematic. A masterly editor (in the 1950s he honed his skills by editing his friend Agnes Varda's first feature, ''La Pointe Courte''), he can use space like a modernist, which may be why he has invoked Paul Cezanne on more than one occasion. ''Provence has never been more accurately rendered, the landscapes are sensitively precise,'' he said of Cezanne years ago. ''And, at the same time it's an abstract composition, a play of lines and forms.'' 
 ''The subject of the picture,'' Mr. Resnais continued, ''is the picture itself.'' 
 This is not to suggest that the subject of his own pictures are the movies themselves. When he cuts from one seemingly disconnected image to the next, he calls attention to the film's plasticity, a self-conscious engagement with the material being the pre-eminent attribute of modernist art. But there is more to his work than modernist strategies or an interest in memory and time. There is also feeling: ''It's bound to stop in the end,'' Georges says of his wristwatch when we first meet him in ''Wild Grass.'' It's exhausted, he adds, like him. ''Why don't we stop,'' he wonders. Instead, he goes and buys more time. ''I need a new battery,'' he tells a clerk, shortly before he finds the wallet that will interrupt the tick-tock, tick-tock of his life. 
 Playfulness and especially feeling can receive short shrift in discussions about Mr. Resnais, who has been the focus of inquiry by the likes of the French philosopher Gilles Deleuze, who wrote that Mr. Resnais had invented ''a cinema of philosophy, a cinema of thought, which is totally new in the history of cinema and totally alive in the history of philosophy'' and is too complex to do justice here. Yes, yes, but what about the people with rodent heads in ''My American Uncle''? Or the stuck pants zipper in ''Wild Grass,'' which evokes one of Mr. Resnais's favorite television shows, ''Curb Your Enthusiasm''? (You read right.) And what about the other animals in his movies, like the raccoon, mice and especially the cats? 
 ''What if God created the cat in his image,'' a woman asks in ''Je T'Aime, Je T'Aime,'' a surrealistic, melancholic drama about a man who, after failing to kill himself, is continuously returned, via a defective time machine, to discontinuous moments in his past, including, finally, his attempted suicide. (Of course cinema is also a time machine.) These returns to the past aren't framed as flashbacks but appear to take place in an intractable present (shades of ''Groundhog Day''), which suggests how memory and present thought can blur until they're indistinguishable. The scholar Youssef Ishaghpour has written that ''Resnais conceives of cinema not as an instrument for the representation of reality, but as the best means to approaching the workings of the mind.''
 In the end Mr. Resnais's subject is less memories than the fragile, stubborn, tender minds that stir them up, confusing, blurring and forgetting them. ''I've read articles calling me a filmmaker of memory,'' Mr. Resnais said at Cannes. ''I've always refused that label by saying, 'No, I want to make films that describe the imaginary.' '' It is consciousness that he returns to, whether through a story of a man and woman grappling with Hiroshima or another couple sifting through the aftermath of World War II or a novelist wrestling with creation. Mr. Resnais then added that his interest in imagination was not nostalgia, ''it's simply the astonishment over everything that our imaginary can provoke.'' 
 And then he began to talk about Cezanne's apples. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Andre Dussollier as a meddlesome stranger who connects with a woman, Sabine Azema, left, whose purse is stolen, in Alain Resnais's film ''Wild Grass,'' which opens on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) (AR7)
The director Alain Resnais, far left, on the set of his new film, ''Wild Grass.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)
 A scene from Mr. Resnais's ''Last Year at Marienbad'' (1961). (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIALTO PICTURES) (AR 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); WRITERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); FESTIVALS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Wild Grass (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



545 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Casualties of War

BYLINE: By PHILIP CAPUTO. 
Philip Caputo's most recent novel is ''Crossers.''

 BODY:
GIRL BY THE ROAD AT NIGHT
 A Novel of Vietnam
 By David Rabe
 228 pp. Simon & Schuster. $23
 I've read somewhere that in the approximately 5,000 years of recorded history, there have been a little more than 200 years of recorded peace. No wonder so many writers have something to say about what we've done for the other 4,800, which is to slaughter one another. Imagine a tower built of all the war novels, memoirs, poetry, histories and commentaries written since the ''Iliad.'' Now imagine yourself standing on the roof. You would probably need an oxygen tank.
 The Vietnam War alone would account for several upper floors. Some time ago, a Massachusetts bookseller named Ken Lopez listed 3,500 titles in a catalog of Vietnam War literature. No other American conflict, Lopez wrote, ''generated the outpouring of literary effort that Vietnam did.'' I can't verify the accuracy of that statement; nor is there room here to explain why, 35 years after the war's end, it continues to grip our collective imagination. But the books keep coming. 
 Now here's ''Girl by the Road at Night,'' the third novel by the Tony Award-winning playwright David Rabe. Unlike another recent Vietnam novel, Karl Marlantes's 600-page battlefield epic ''Matterhorn,'' Rabe's new book is a sylphlike 228 pages. It takes place in Washington, D.C., and, once it gets to Vietnam, in the world of the rear echelon, far removed from the action. The protagonist, Pfc. Joe Whitaker, is a truck mechanic assigned to an unnamed support unit near the city of Bien Hoa.
 From beginning to end, not one shot is fired in anger, because this book isn't a war novel except in the loosest sense of the term. Rather, it's an erotic love story about two young people from opposite ends of the earth caught up in events far beyond their control. It's also a meditation on the devastating effects armed conflict has on society, and on the psychological and emotional toll it exacts from soldiers and civilians alike. Above all, it's a modern tragedy in which the war, like the somber moors in ''Tess of the D'Urbervilles,'' becomes a metaphor for cruelty and injustice, for fate itself.
 Those who have seen or read Rabe's acclaimed quartet of Vietnam plays will recognize Private Whitaker as another iteration of his vision of the ordinary American boy. A brawny, blond farm kid from Wisconsin who loves cars and internal combustion engines, Whitaker drinks a lot and is impulsive, quick-tempered and single-minded in his pursuit of sex, a cauldron of male lust. He's also immune to self-examination; he says and does things without knowing or caring why he says and does them, as much prey to his own (often drunken) whims as he is to the forces that have flung him into a war halfway around the world.
 Drafted when hardly anyone had heard of Vietnam, he doesn't regard his draft notice as a catastrophe. Then, after a spell at Fort Meade, Md., he receives orders to the war zone. On a booze-filled weekend pass in Washington, he contemplates his predicament: ''For all his questions there has been no answer given to him ever; and now he is alone and nearly drunk and afraid that if he goes to Vietnam, he will die there.''
 Ten thousand miles away, the life of a young woman, Quach Ngoc Lan, has also been changed by the war. Her father is dead, her family has been scattered and she has become a bargain-basement prostitute who retails her body to loutish soldiers while she dreams of childhood days riding on buffalo carts through jade-green rice paddies with her brother. Eventually Whitaker's path crosses with hers, leading to disaster.
 Rabe begins with a series of cinematic intercuts between Whitaker's aimless, intoxicated weekend in the capital and Lan's dealings with her clients and her madam, who runs a ''full service'' car wash where American soldiers come to have their Jeeps cleaned and their sexual needs gratified.
 The scenes of Whitaker on his last free weekend are darkly comic. With a hip flask of whiskey, he bumbles through an antiwar protest, brooding about his forthcoming deployment, raging at an old girlfriend who's jilted him, seething with blue-collar resentment for the protesters -- ''grade-A brown-nosing teacher's pets'' -- and yearning for anyone to acknowledge that what's about to happen to him is important. He has another, more basic objective: to have sex. With whom almost doesn't matter. He's as self-involved as most 20-year-olds, in his own eyes the center of the universe, and his anger and frustration grow as his quests for sex and recognition go unfulfilled. He's hardly sympathetic, but Rabe's portrait is multidimensional and engaging even when we see Whitaker at his outrageous worst.
 It's when Rabe turns to Lan that he reveals himself to be as gifted a novelist as he is a playwright. In most of the literature, Vietnam is the stage set and the Vietnamese the supporting cast for an American drama. A rare exception is Robert Olen Butler's Pulitzer-winning ''Good Scent From a Strange Mountain,'' and Rabe's portrayals of Lan and her world rise to that level. She, her boss and the other Vietnamese personalities are as fully realized as Whitaker and his G.I. buddies.
 Rabe's narrative comes from notes and sketches he wrote in the early 1970s. These initial fragments give the writing the immediacy of a first novel, without the amateurishness. Some of the imagery is striking -- a slithering pinheaded snake is ''a line of quick blue light among the weeds.'' And the sorrows the Vietnamese suffered in the war years are summed up with startling economy by Lan's uncle: ''The altars in the homes of the Vietnamese people have today more pictures than people to pray before them. We die and die.''
 Whitaker meets Lan by chance and becomes one of her customers until something happens between them. It's less than love, but a great deal more than commercial sex. And that tenuous bond opens Whitaker's mind and heart to new possibilities, even the idea that he's capable of overcoming his own crippled nature: ''Maybe now in the desolation of this . . . country, amid these poor miserable empty people, he will be able to find himself, he thinks, somehow locating the lost part of himself that he knows is in there.'' He is moved, finally, into a brave and decent act, rescuing Lan from two menacing Vietnamese soldiers.
 A scene like that, indeed the whole book, would be hopelessly shopworn in less capable hands, ''Miss Saigon'' in prose. Rabe pulls it off, as he does his depiction of Lan, without a whiff of sentimentality. The dialogue is what you'd expect from a skilled dramatist, so true you feel you're in a room with the characters. The pidgin English in which Lan and Whitaker communicate at times sounds like a weird poetry.
 I would spoil things if I disclosed what happens to Lan. She ignores a subtle warning from her uncle and pays a terrible price, her own reckless heart conspiring with circumstance to bring heaven's wrath upon her. Rabe delivers the blow in a single paragraph that is a masterpiece of compression. It wounds like the swift thrust of a thin, razor-sharp dagger; you don't realize you've been stabbed until you see the blood.
 In a brief afterword, Rabe suggests that he was partly inspired by ''The Tale of Kieu,'' an early-19th-century epic poem by Vietnam's Shakespeare, Nguyen Du. The original title was ''A New Cry From a Broken Heart,'' because Du wanted his poem to be a scream hurled against injustice and the harshness of fate, a scream to break the heart. ''Girl by the Road at Night'' is Rabe's cry, and it deserves to be heard.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CASEY BURNS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LITERATURE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); POETRY (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); ARMED FORCES (64%); BOOKSTORES (58%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (90%)

TITLE: Girl by the Road at Night: A Novel of Vietnam (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



546 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Recycling Thief

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
We put our paper, plastic and other recyclables in city-issued containers in our backyard and move them to the curb for weekly pickup through our town's recycling program. A scavenger regularly removes cans and bottles, presumably to redeem for cash. I say that by depriving the city of these items, he adds to our recycling costs. I want to ask the police to apprehend the ''thief.'' My wife says I lack compassion.You?J.M., BURLINGAME, CALIF.
 It would take a colder heart than mine to call the cops on someone so needy that he survives by scavenging garbage. To focus your crime-busting on the poorest of the poor shows curious priorities. Are there no BP execs, no Goldman Sachs plutocrats, no producers of ''Sex and the City 2'' ? 
 Thomas Hart Benton was once to give a speech denouncing John C. Calhoun, but learning that Calhoun was ill, declined to do so, declaring, ''Benton will not speak today, for when God almighty lays his hands on a man, Benton takes his off.''
 Benton's compassion for the physically afflicted should be extended to the economicallyassailed. To lead an ethical life requires us to empathize with other people and ask: What circumstances would induce a person to behave this way? And: Does the most moral response to this behavior involve the police?
 You should also ask how this fellow is to live if you thwart his pilfering recyclables. Rob liquor stores? Perform liposuction? There is little social good in what amounts to criminalizing poverty. It is not that the poor have a right to steal; it is that they have no duty to starve.
 I would give a different answer if this foraging were the work not of an individual struggling to survive during tough economic times but was an organized effort involving fleets of illicit trucks staying one jump ahead of the designated recycling company. Context counts. What's more, it is not clear if your town makes a profit from recycling. If it does not, the scavenger may actually save you money by lightening the load.
 UPDATE: While putting out the trash one night, J.M. encountered someone going through his cans right by the house. Startled and mindful of the safety of his young children, he called the police with no discernible results. He has not phoned them again.
 While teaching as a substitute at a public high school, I noticed a lot of partisan propaganda taped to the outside of a colleague's office door. He teaches woodshop and world history, and this material is unrelated to both. It included the Jokeresque image of President Obama with the word ''socialist'' underneath. I regard my students as a captive audience and think that sharing my political or religious views in the classroom walks a hazy ethical line. (I certainly do not publicly disparage a president.) Does my colleague cross that line? T.P.,ARIZONA
 He does not. Your colleague did not bloviate in class to a captive audience -- that would be an abuse of authority -- but posted material on his office door, and no reason he should not. Teachers, too, should have a right to free expression. Because they hold authority over students, teachers must be careful not to bully those who hold different views. All students must be welcome in class; all must be treated fairly. But it is worthwhile to teach students the value of lively -- and courteous -- political discourse, a cornerstone of a free society. Such discourse may include disparaging a president, an elected official who serves us, not some numinous figure before whom we bend the knee: you know, someone like a monarch or Oprah or George Clooney.
 But while this teacher does not transgress ethically, he does seem to fall short intellectually, offering not deft political analysis but slogans and cliches, something you might announce on your own door. (Do substitutes get a door?) Incidentally, not that the president is one, but how does it defame a person to call him a ''socialist'' (outside of nutty far-right circles) -- a set of ideas many advanced Western democracies find congenial, what with the accessible health-care, affordable higher education and good public transportation?
 e-mailqueries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist,The New York Times Magazine,620 EighthAvenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number.podcastsof the Ethicist are available at NYTimes.com, iTunes and Yahoo.com.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ETHICS (87%); POOR POPULATION (75%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); RELIGION (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (62%); HISTORY (60%); CHILDREN (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



547 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Letter From Istanbul, Part 2

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Istanbul
 I leave Istanbul with four questions that Turks asked me echoing in my head. Forget the answers, just these questions will tell you all you need to understand the situation here. The four questions, which were asked of me by different Turkish journalists, academics or businessmen, can be summarized as follows:
 One: Do you think we are seeing the death of the West and the rise of new world powers in the East?Two:Tom, it was great talking to you this morning, but would you mind not quoting me by name? I'm afraid the government will retaliate against me, my newspaper or my business if you do.Three:Is it true, as Prime Minister Erdogan believes, that Israel is behind the attacks by the Kurdish terrorist group P.K.K. on Turkey?Four:Do you really think Obama can punish Turkey for voting against the U.S. at the U.N. on Iran sanctions? After all, America needs Turkey more than Turkey needs America. 
 The question about the death of the West is really about the rise of Turkey, which is actually a wonderful story. The Turks wanted to get into the European Union and were rebuffed, but I'm not sure Turkish businessmen even care today. The E.U. feels dead next to Turkey, which last year was right behind India and China among the fastest-growing economies in the world -- just under 7 percent -- and was the fastest-growing economy in Europe. 
 Americans have tended to look at Turkey as a bridge or a base -- either a cultural bridge that connects the West and the Muslim world, or as our base (Incirlik Air Base) that serves as the main U.S. supply hub for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Turks see themselves differently.
 ''Turkey is not a bridge. It's a center,'' explained Muzaffer Senel, an international relations researcher at Istanbul Sehir University.
 Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Turkey has become the center of its own economic space, stretching from southern Russia, all through the Balkans, the Caucasus and Central Asia, and down through Iraq, Syria, Iran and the Middle East. All you have to do is stand in the Istanbul airport and look at the departures board for Turkish Airlines, which flies to cities half of which I cannot even pronounce, to appreciate what a pulsating economic center this has become for Central Asia. I met Turkish businessmen who were running hotel chains in Moscow, banks in Bosnia and Greece, road-building projects in Iraq and huge trading operations with Iran and Syria. In 1980, Turkey's total exports were worth $3 billion. In 2008, they were $132 billion. There are now 250 industrial zones throughout Anatolia. Turkey's cellphone users have gone from virtually none in the 1990s to 64 million in 2008.
 So Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan sees himself as the leader of a rising economic powerhouse of 70 million people who is entitled to play an independent geopolitical role -- hence his U.N. vote against sanctioning Iran. But how Turkey rises really matters -- and Erdogan definitely has some troubling Hugo Chavez-Vladimir Putin tendencies. I've never visited a democracy where more people whom I interviewed asked me not to quote them by name for fear of retribution by Erdogan's circle -- in the form of lawsuits, tax investigations or being shut out of government contracts. The media here is rampantly self-censored.
 Moreover, Erdogan has evolved from just railing against Israel's attacks on Hamas in Gaza to spouting conspiracy theories -- like the insane notion that Israel is backing the P.K.K. terrorists -- as a way of consolidating his political base among conservative Muslims in Turkey and abroad. 
 Is there anything the U.S. can do? My advice: Avoid a public confrontation that Erdogan can exploit to build more support, draw U.S. redlines in private and let Turkish democrats take the lead. Turkey is full of energy and hormones, and is trying to figure out its new identity. There is an inner struggle over that identity, between those who would like to see Turkey more aligned with the Islamic world and values and those who want it to remain more secular, Western and pluralistic. Who defines Turkey will determine a lot about whether we end up in a war of civilizations. We need to be involved but proceed delicately. 
 This struggle is for Turks, and they are on it. Only two weeks before the Gaza flotilla incident, a leading poll showed Mr. Erdogan's Justice and Development Party, known as the A.K.P., trailing his main opposition -- the secularist Republican People's Party -- for the first time since the A.K.P. came to office in 2002.
 That is surely one reason Erdogan openly took sides with one of the most radical forces in the region, Hamas -- to re-energize his political base. But did he overplay his hand? Up to now, Erdogan has been very cunning, treating his opponents like frogs in a pail, always just gradually turning up the heat so they never quite knew they were boiling. But now they know. The secular and moderate Muslim forces in Turkey are alarmed; the moderate Arab regimes are alarmed; the Americans are alarmed. The fight for Turkey's soul is about to be joined in a much more vigorous way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); AIRPORTS (64%); AIRLINES (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%) TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



548 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Dysregulation Nation

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the author, most recently, of ''We've Got Issues: Children and Parents in the Age of Medication.''

 BODY:
The gulf oil fiasco is just the latest instance in which a lack of regulation -- or dysfunctional system of regulation -- has led to a major American disaster. After the failure of the levees during Hurricane Katrina, the Wall Street meltdown of 2008, the collapse of the housing market and now the BP spill,we have come to what feels like a moment of reckoning, with some tentative signs that our country's decades-long love affair with deregulation is starting to chill.
 The Obama administration has issued hundreds of new rules and standards over the past year, the most prominent initiative, of course, being the financial-oversight bill now making its way through Congress. What remains to be seen, as we move forward into what The Times's Eric Lipton recently called ''a new age of regulation,'' is whether this new spirit of control and reform will carry over into the American psyche. For in the anything-goes atmosphere of our recent past, it wasn't just external controls that went awry; inwardly, people lost constraint and common sense, too. Now there is a case to be made that problems of self-regulation -- of appetite, emotion, impulse and cupidity -- may well be the defining social pathology of our time. 
In the late 1970s, the historian Christopher Lasch famously described America as a culture of narcissism. Today we might well be called a nation of dysregulation. The signs that something is amiss in our inner mechanisms of control and restraint are everywhere. Eating disorders, ''in general a disorder of self-regulation,'' according to Darlene M. Atkins, director of the Eating Disorders Clinic at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, grew epidemic in the past few decades, and in recent years have spread to minority communities, younger girls, older women and boys and men too. Obesity is viewed in many cases by mental-health experts as another form of self-dysregulation:a ''pathologically intense drive for food consumption'' akin to drug addiction, in the words of Nora D. Volkow, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and Charles P. O'Brien, a professor in the department of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, who have argued for including some forms of obesity as a mental disorder in the coming version of the psychiatric bible, the DSM-V.
 In book publishing, addiction memoirs seem to have evolved into the bildungsromans of our time, their broad popularity suggesting that stories of self-destruction through excess can be counted upon to inspire a reliable there-but-for-the-grace-of-God affinity in readers. We read about dopamine fiends sitting enslaved to their screens, their brains hooked on the bursts of pleasure they receive from the ding of each new e-mail message or the arousing flash of a tweet. We see reports of young children so unable to control their behavior that they're being expelled from preschool. And teenagerswho, after years spent gorging on instant gratification (too-easy presents from eager-to-please parents, the thrill of the fast-changing screen), are restless, demanding, easily bored and said to be suffering from a plague of insatiability.
 Mental-health professionals report seeing increasing numbers of kids who are all out of sync: they can't sustain attention, regulate their rage, moderate their pain, tolerate normal types of sensory input. Some of this is biological; a problem of faulty brain wiring. But many of the problems -- in both children and adults -- according to Peter C. Whybrow, director of the Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior at the University of California in Los Angeles, come from living in a culture of excess.
 Under normal circumstances, the emotional, reward-seeking, selfish, ''myopic'' part of our brain is checked and balanced in its desirous cravings by our powers of cognition -- our awareness of the consequences, say, of eating too much or spending too much. But after decades of never-before-seen levels of affluence and endless messages promoting instant gratification, Whybrow says, this self-regulatory system has been knocked out of whack. The ''orgy of self-indulgence'' that spread in our land of no-money-down mortgages, he wrote in his 2005 book, ''American Mania: When More Is Not Enough,'' has disturbed the ''ancient mechanisms that sustain our physical and mental balance.''
 If you put a person in an environment that worships wealth and favors conspicuous consumption, add gross income inequalities that breed envy and competition, mix in stagnant wages, a high cost of living and too-easy credit, you get overspending, high personal debt and a ''treadmill-like existence,'' as Whybrow calls it: compulsive getting and spending.
 Recently there have been pointed efforts to use government regulation to prod people toward self-regulating, based on the belief that if you present consumers with more and better information on the risks and consequences of their actions (better labeling of food; clearer information on mortgage documents), they will, in turn, make better choices. A provision in the new health care reform law requiring fast-food chains to post calorie counts is one such effort. New credit-card legislation requiring that monthly statements make clear the long-term cost to cardholders of making only minimum payments is another. Both seem likely to have at least some success; a Stanford University study earlier this year found that Starbucks customers in New York City who routinely bought highly fattening foods had lowered their typical calorie consumption by 26 percent after local labeling requirements went into effect in 2008, and a survey that was released in May found 25 percent of people saying that being confronted with the long-term cost of making only minimum credit-card payments had inspired them to pay down their debt more quickly.
 These initiatives, however, focus on choices that are rather simple. The larger structural problems that create our widespread envy, greed, overconsumption and debt -- gross income inequality, for starters -- will be much more difficult, politically, to address.
 The ''yawning void, an insatiable hunger, an emptiness waiting to be filled,'' that Lasch identified as animating the typical narcissist of the 1970s has grown only deeper with the passage of time. The Great Recession was supposed to portend a scaling back, a recalibration of our lifestyle, and usher in a new era of making more of less. But the pressures that drive the dysregulated American haven't abated any since the fall of 2008. Wall Street is resurgent, and unemployment is still high. For too many people, the cycle of craving and debt that drives our treadmill existence simply can't be broken.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA CRAIG-MARTIN
 TRUNK ARCHIVE.) GRAPHIC: 55% of respondents say an overall weak REGULATORY structure is to BLAME for the BP oil spill. (SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : WASHINGTON POST/ABC NEWS POLL, JUNE 2010.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); EATING DISORDERS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); WOMEN (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (76%); HISTORY (75%); OBESITY (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); PSYCHIATRY (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RELIGION (60%); BOOK PUBLISHING (60%); HOUSING MARKET (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010



549 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: The Curse of Plenty

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Let's suppose there is $1 trillion worth of minerals under Afghanistan, as senior American officials and a confidential Pentagon memo said last week.
 Is that a good thing -- for either Afghanistan or the United States?
Some experts in mining and in Third World resource politics argue that it is not.
 Because it takes up to 20 years for a mine to start earning profits and Afghanistan has been a battleground for 31 years, ''no mining company in its right mind would go into Afghanistan now,'' said Murray W. Hitzman, a professor of economic geology at the Colorado School of Mines.
 The country's underground treasure ''will be good for the warlords and good for China, but not good for Afghans or the United States,'' predicted Michael T. Klare, a professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College in Massachusetts and the author of ''Resource Wars'' and ''Blood and Oil.'' 
 History tends to second such skepticism. The great empires of the world were built thanks to gold mines, not atop them. It's the little mercantile nations with their cohesive political systems and fierce navies that have looted the big feudal ones paved with rubies.
 Arid Spain and Portugal siphoned off South America's gold; tiny Holland dominated vast Indonesia. Britain, barren except for coal, built an imperial swap shop of grain, lumber, cotton, tea, tobacco, opium, gems, silver and slaves. Japan, less than a century out of its bamboo-armor era, conquered much of China for its iron and coal. The post-colonial era hasn't been easier on the resource-rich have-nots.
 ''Countries with a history of conflict have perverse effects from mineral wealth -- more war, more corruption, less democracy and more inequality,'' said Terry Lynn Karl, a political science professor at Stanford and the author of ''The Paradox of Plenty,'' which shows how the populations of poor countries like Nigeria often get poorer after oil is discovered and a tiny elite benefits.
 It has long been known, geologists said, that Afghanistan has huge deposits of copper, iron, gold, cobalt and many other minerals, including lithium, an element vital to modern batteries. An internal Pentagon memo suggested that Afghanistan could become ''the Saudi Arabia of lithium.''
 But some experts suggested that the lithium prediction was optimistic and that Saudi Arabia was not the best example of what sudden wealth does in a poor country. That kingdom and its neighboring emirates have tiny populations ruled over by powerful, cohesive families. And the Arabian peninsula is flat, open and easy to police in a crisis, as the war to drive Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait proved.
 Afghanistan, said Dr. Klare, is more like eastern Congo: home to diamonds and coltan -- another mineral vital to modern electronics. Both are full of warring tribes, illiterate populations, corrupt governments and brutal warlords. And both are rugged and remote, far from coastlines and with few roads or railroads, making it hard to get minerals out and policing forces in.
 Rich as eastern Congo is, the lot of its population for the last 15 years has been disease, starvation and massacres at the hands of local militias and invaders from Rwanda, Angola and Zimbabwe.
 Mozambique and Angola also illustrate the ''resource curse,'' said William S. K. Reno, a political science professor at Northwestern University and the author of ''Warlord Politics and African States.''
 Both were Portuguese colonies that fell into civil war after being freed in 1975. There was less to fight over in Mozambique, which had only cashews and shrimp to export, so the war was shorter and less intense. But in Angola, with the rebels holding the diamond mines and the government owning the oil, profits were squandered on tanks and jet fighters. The war lasted a decade longer.
 Compared with those countries, Afghanistan is at disadvantage, mining experts said. Even for $1 trillion, its riches may not be worth digging up.
 Compared with oil drilling, minerals mining is extraordinarily expensive and time-consuming. As everyone from Jed Clampett to BP has discovered, a bubblin' crude can emerge under its own pressure as soon as the earth's surface is pricked.
 Diamond mining is also comparatively cheap -- diamonds are formed in pipes of softer kimberlite pushed up by volcanoes and usually mined in open pits or dug out of the beds of rivers that washed the volcanoes away. After that, they are simply sorted out of the gravel.
 But gold, silver, copper and other minerals are usually locked in ore that must be tunneled down to, blasted out by the ton, carried to the surface, and ground into powder for processing. Digging the shafts and building elevators, processing plants, railroads and tarmac roads ''can cost hundreds of millions to billions for a single mining operation,'' said Roderick Eggert, director of the economics division at the Colorado School of Mines. ''Even a small gold mine is $100 million.''
 And while an oil well can go from discovery to production in two or three years, ''it would take 5 to 15 years to go from where most of Afghanistan is now to an operating mine,'' he said.
 After that, added his colleague Dr. Hitzman, ''even with a good mine, it takes 5 to 10 years to recoup your investment. What's Afghanistan going to be like in five years?''
 Also, someone must provide security, and 20 years of security by the United States military would cost hundreds of billions of dollars.
 England, Holland, Spain, Portugal and Japan all discovered that the costs of policing empires outweighed the financial gains and that it was more practical to let private companies shoulder the risks. Mineral prices fluctuate wildly, and $1 trillion today may soon be much less. Gold broke the $1,000-an-ounce barrier for the first time last year. But it had hit $873 in 1980 -- the equivalent of $2,300 today -- and then languished under $500 for years.
 The biggest force driving most mineral prices up today, experts said, is China. (Gold is the exception, driven up by fears about economic instability.)
 China is not invading the way old empires did. Its state companies bid for concessions all over the Third World. ''But,'' Professor Klare added, ''they don't care about bribery, transparency or the rule of law and they don't mind dealing with warlords, while the Western countries are more constrained.'' Also, as state-owned companies, they can take risks that private ones dare not.
 Which does not immunize them, he added. China is facing criticism in Zambia after workers died in its copper mines there or were shot dead protesting working conditions.
 And, experts said, while Afghanistan does have lithium deposits, so do many other countries, including the United States. Whether it pays to extract it depends on the price of lithium. Recently, South Korea said it would build a plant to extract it from seawater that, if world prices rise, can supply far more than Korea needs.
 Which could leave Afghanistan as the Saudi Arabia of sand.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on June 20 about mineral deposits in Afghanistan and other third world countries and the practical and political difficulties of extracting them and profiting from them described deposits of coltan incorrectly. Coltan is a mineral, not an element.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Not So Golden: Mining gold in impoverished Congo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIONEL HEALING/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); MINES & MINING (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOLD MINING (77%); COAL MINING (77%); POLITICS (77%); MINING ENGINEERING (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NAVIES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KUWAIT (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010



550 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Reviving a Market in a Swoon

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
ACCORDING to the early evidence, the New Jersey residential market went a bit weak in the knees in May -- or even swooned -- after the federal home buyer tax credit expired on April 30.
 Sales statistics are not yet final. But in a sample study of multiple-listing data from nine counties done by the Otteau Valuation Group of New Brunswick, which reports on the state's real estate industry, the pace of contract signings was found to be down in all of them, and in some cases sharply.
 In Middlesex County, for example, four straight months in which sales outpaced those of the year before were followed by a month of May with almost a third fewer sales than last: 467 contracts versus 672. 
 On average across all nine counties, according to the Otteau data, there were 23 percent fewer sales in May than there were in May 2009. The counties were: Bergen, Camden, Essex, Hudson, Middlesex, Morris, Ocean, Passaic and Union. 
 Even before these numbers were in, however, state lawmakers were readying plans for a new statewide tax credit, described by some as a ''bridge'' to help the housing market along until the overall economy fully recovers. 
 On June 10, legislators gave overwhelming final approval to a measure that would provide buyers with a tax credit of $15,000 (or 5 percent of the purchase price, whichever is less) over three years, as long as they lived in their homes for at least that length of time. A total of $100 million would be allocated for the program, which would place no income limits on participating buyers.
 By contrast, the federal program offered homeowners a maximum of $8,000 and, even when its income ceiling was raised early in 2010, excluded couples earning more than $225,000 a year. With New Jersey perennially ranked as one of the richest states, the income limit made a significant difference, in the eyes of market watchers. 
 It is now up to Gov. Christopher J. Christie, who was silent on the issue during debate, to decide whether the program would effectively jump-start the housing market once again, and whether it makes sense at a time of budget crisis and already-declining tax revenues for the state.
 Both the New Jersey Builders Association and the New Jersey Association of Realtors are pushing hard for the governor's approval, partly because the program is heavily weighted toward stimulating new-home purchases. Unlike the federal program, which did not distinguish between new houses and resales, this one allocates 75 percent of tax credits for those who buy new houses, the remainder to buyers in resale transactions.
 Tom Critelli, the president of the builders group, described the program as an ''investment'' in job creation by the state, because it would ostensibly offer a 2-to-1 return, or $200 million in new tax revenues generated within a year. Mr. Critelli based that contention on research from the National Association of Home Builders purporting to track the ''economic ripple effect'' of each new unit of housing created.
 Last year, there were fewer than 12,000 housing starts in New Jersey, the smallest number since the Depression, as the Otteau Group has reported.
 K. Hovnanian, the state's largest home builder, has continued to break ground on new phases of a few projects during the protracted lull; steel is rising now at two of its Four Seasons-brand age-restricted developments, in Montvale and North Caldwell. 
 Yet Ari Hovnanian, the chief executive, recently acknowledged that the federal tax-credit program had not bolstered sales as much as the company had hoped. Statistics for May have not yet been published by the publicly held Hovnanian. But for the February-to-April period, its sales volume was down by 17 percent from the previous year.
 ''From New Jersey's perspective,'' said Joseph F. Riggs, a group president for Hovnanian, in a recent telephone interview, ''this tax credit can have a very profound effect on buyer psychology and calling the market to action, if you will.'' 
 Realtor associations, boards and individual agents who favor the legislation say it would persuade wary buyers to jump into the market.
 ''If this was to pass, I think it could create a gold rush,'' Catherine Chaudemanche, a broker with Keller Williams Elite Realty in Metuchen, wrote on the real estate blog ActiveRain about the proposal. ''I have so many clients who have been on the fence for the last two years.''
 Mr. Otteau noted that the expiration of the federal program did seem to have had much greater impact in less affluent counties, at greater distances from Manhattan. ''Manhattan is recovering faster,'' he said, ''and recovery psychology will probably spread by degrees of proximity.''
 Among the nine counties surveyed, the biggest loser was Camden, to the south, which had a 40 percent drop in sales volume last month over the previous year. Southernmost Ocean County had a 23 percent decline, whereas Bergen and Hudson Counties in northern New Jersey had only 13 percent declines. 
 Essex County is home to Newark, one of the poorer cities in the state and its largest, as well as affluent Short Hills, where several local brokers said they had not sensed any lost momentum in May. In all, 349 contracts were signed in Essex, 22 percent fewer than last year. 
 Morris County had 17 percent fewer sales; in Union and Passaic, also in the north, declines were 24 and 27 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GROUND WORK: K. Hovnanian's Four Seasons at Ridgemont broke ground in Montvale. The developer is hoping a home buyer tax credit, awaiting the governor's signature, will help spur sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); JOB CREATION (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); APPROVALS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



551 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Douglas Durst

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Durst, 65, is the chairman of the Durst Organization, one of the city's largest family-owned real estate businesses. He is also co-president with his cousin Jonathan, known as Jody, though he plans to relinquish that position.
 The company owns properties throughout Manhattan, including the Bank of America Tower, which attained platinum LEED certification. 
 Q Your cousin has been running most of the daily operations since last summer. When will you officially leave the post of co-president? 
 A That will officially occur in July at our annual meeting.
 Q What role will you be playing in the company afterward?
 A In the beginning, it will be similar to what it has been, except I won't be at as many meetings. Gradually I will have less involvement, but that's going to take several years. We've had several generational transitions and we try to do it in a well-managed way.
 Q When I interviewed Jody last September, he said he had ''some big shoes to fill.''
 A So did I.
 Q Tell me about that transition.
 A It worked fine, but the timing wasn't good. I took charge during the '90s real estate recession, and Seymour, my father, died in '95. It was very scary. But when we started Four Times Square, that was a very successful project, because of the training I had and the foundation that the previous generation had created.
 Q What has been your biggest accomplishment?
 A You're sitting in it -- the Bank of America Tower.
 It was very difficult because it was so complex, with the trading floors and the cogeneration plant, the theater, and also because they were moving in while we were building it.
 Q Is the building complete?
 A It's 99.9 percent complete. We didn't take the scaffolding down until six weeks ago. We were basically repairing windows. And they're still doing a bit of work on the top of the building. We're going to be lighting the spire.
 Q What's the occupancy there?
 A We are 98 percent and may very soon be 100 percent. Negotiations are under way with two more tenants. One is a service company and the other is a financial company. We hope to be signing leases within the next two to three weeks.
 Q And portfoliowide?
 A Across our portfolio we're somewhere around 97 percent.
 Q Have rental rates per square foot gone up from a year ago?
 A We were doing almost no renting from a year ago. But we're seeing a lot of activity and we're able to achieve the rates that we anticipated, as opposed to a year ago when we were getting absolutely ridiculous offers for the space. At the Bank of America Tower it's in the $90s; portfoliowide it's about $60.
 Q Durst is one of two finalists in a bid to essentially manage One World Trade Center. 
 A We would be responsible for marketing and operating the building. The Port Authority will continue to build it, and we would be there advising and trying to help in the construction process, but our real role would be to get it rented and to keep it rented.
 Q When will the Port decide? 
 A We were hoping it would be at their next board meeting, which is the end of the month. It might drag on till July. I hope not.
 Q What's the status of theNew School's University Center, which you are developing? 
 A It's moving very well. We just started construction. We began the underpinning so we can go ahead with our excavation. The building will open in 2013.
 Q What else are you working on?
 A Our residential division -- Durst Fetner -- is working on a development for Mount Sinai at 1212 Fifth Avenue. We were working on a new private school for Chris Whittle on West 57th Street, between 11th and 12th. That fell through. We're not entirely sure yet what we will build. An office building with a small amount of retail is one possibility.
 Q Why the focus on green?
 A Being concerned about the environment is part of being a family business. You think about the future and future generations.
 Q Tell me about the McEnroe Organic Farm, which you co-own in upstate New York.
 A The farm grows everything: beef, chickens, turkeys, tomatoes and, during the season, all the normal vegetables, like corn. We have a roadside stand where it's sold, and do some wholesale. We sell to Whole Foods and to some of the local stores.
 Q Are you wearing your green socks today?
 A Absolutely! To make sure that people know that I'm an environmentalist, I wear them every day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POWER PLANTS (64%); POWER COGENERATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



552 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Help Prevent A Sequel. Delay Some Pay.

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
CONGRESS'S approach to financial reform has been a bit like my own household's response to a moth infestation in our kitchen a couple of years ago. After we got over the initial shock, my wife and I responded rapidly, disposing of food in which moths were breeding. Then we broadened our focus, throwing away items that had passed their expiration date or were no longer needed. Then we made a list of things to buy and went shopping. 
 But, in retrospect, we neglected something important. We didn't take control of the crisis by finding where the moths came from, or figuring out how to prevent their return. (Just two weeks ago, we found another infestation.) 
 How does that compare to the federal response to the financial crisis? 
 Well, now that we're past the initial phases of crisis management, Congress has a chance to address the underlying issues in a fundamental way. Unfortunately, though, the reform bills approved separately by the House and the Senate -- and now in conference committee -- deal with the crisis by offering a host of little cleanups and shopping lists. The cumulative effect would certainly be positive, but the current versions wouldn't really prevent a repeat of the mess. 
 There may be a better way. I have been working as part of a nationwide group of 15 professors of financial economics on recommendations to improve our chances. Organized by Kenneth French of Dartmouth, we call ourselves the Squam Lake Group, after the New Hampshire lake where we began in 2008 to think together and pool our expertise. 
 We made extensive use of an important tenet of economic theory: People respond to incentives, but the incentives embedded in government regulations often don't have their desired effects. Beginning economics students have been known to have epiphanies about the surprising outcomes of many such incentives. 
 Last Wednesday, we presented our findings, ''The Squam Lake Report: Fixing the Financial System'' (Princeton University Press). Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, helped introduce the book at a conference at Columbia University. He said he agreed with the principle that ''the stakeholders in financial firms -- including shareholders, managers, creditors, and counterparties -- must bear the costs of excessive risk-taking or poor business decisions, not the public.''
 But the current legislation does not yet fully satisfy our criteria. 
 The issues facing us are complex. Let's look at just one of them: the provisions in the Congressional bills on executive compensation. 
 Certainly, executive pay has grown enormously in recent decades, and there has been much suspicion that it contributed to the crisis. But it's not the high level of executive salaries that helped cause the financial collapse. Efforts to reduce executive salaries have perversely created the wrong incentives. A 1993 law discouraging companies from paying their chief executives more than $1 million a year appears to have led to a de-emphasis of salaries and an increase in stock options. 
 So here is one of those epiphanies: Those stock options didn't lower total compensation. And they probably encouraged C.E.O.'s to expose their companies to more risk, because options' value grows as risk does. In fact, legislators' misunderstanding of the law's true incentives may have contributed to the severity of the crisis.
 The Senate bill contains requirements about compensation committees, the disclosure of pay structure, and provisions that give shareholders an opportunity to express opinions on executive salaries -- a ''say on pay.'' These provisions may help discourage crony boards from overpaying C.E.O.'s, but won't do much to stabilize the system. 
 In contrast, the Squam Lake group recommends that companies be encouraged to withhold a good part of the compensation of their top executives for a number of years, and that it should not take the form of stock options. That would give them incentives to consider some of the long-term consequences, and intrinsic value, of their decisions. 
 The holdback should be for a pre-announced dollar amount, and the contract should specify that it will be lost if the company goes bankrupt or gets a government bailout. That way, the economic cost of a bankruptcy or bailout is placed partly on the executives who make decisions. The riskiness of the company's activities becomes the executives' personal problem, not just the taxpayers'. That should transform executives' thinking about risks -- and may help prevent another disaster.
 The Senate bill does have clawback provisions that might take back an executive's compensation at a later date, under special circumstances. But these provisions wouldn't likely have the transforming effect of a holdback.
 IF our holdback measure had been in place before the last crisis, executives might have had serious second thoughts about giving a green light to mortgage-backed securities that would later go bust. 
 Both the House and Senate bills contain a requirement that mortgage securitizers share in the risk -- by retaining an interest in any mortgage-backed securities they create, and not selling them all off to investors. That improves incentives, which is a good idea, but it has a narrow application. 
 The next crisis will take an unexpected form. Crises generally do. We need regulations that are based squarely on economic theory -- sturdy incentives that really accomplish their broad mission. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%)

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



553 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: 'Chinatown' Buses Expand Routes

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
The bargain lines widely known as the Chinatown buses are rolling out new routes beyond the Northeast corridor, to hubs like Atlanta, Orlando and Chicago. 
 Many of the bus routes have been in existence for several years, catering mostly to the Chinese immigrant clientele for whom the carriers were originally started in the 1990s. But several bus companies have begun publicizing the routes to the students, backpackers and other English-speaking bargain-hunters who have embraced the lines as a cheap mode of transportation through the Northeast.
''The Chinatown buses are booming,'' said Jimmy Chen, who runs the Boston-based shuttle bus booking service Gotobus.com. ''Even during a year when the economy was not so good.''
 Chinatown buses now go to around 30 cities from New York, according to Mr. Chen, and there are more than 40 such companies in operation across the country.
 The moves allow the bus companies to compete with low-cost carriers like Megabus and BoltBus, which operate along the traditional Chinatown bus turf as well as nationwide. Among the Chinatown bus companies rolling out routes are I-95 Coach, which is offering a New York-to-Orlando trip, and Horse Run Tour, from New York to Atlanta.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACIE ROZHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (93%); AIR SERVICE (90%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); AIRLINES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



554 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Another Bad Idea From Arizona

 BODY:
Not satisfied with a shameful new law that invites, indeed demands, racial profiling, some Arizona politicians are now pushing for a law that would deny citizenship to babies born in Arizona whose parents cannot prove they are legal immigrants. 
 The 14th Amendment, adopted after the Civil War, states: ''All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside.'' It could not be clearer. 
 The Constitution apparently does not matter to these politicians. They also do not seem to care that Arizona is earning a national reputation for intolerance and racism -- and if it continues this way will pay an economic price in boycotts of its lucrative tourism industry.
 When State Senator Russell Pearce first started pushing for a law that requires police forces to stop and check anyone who appears to be an illegal immigrant, he was dismissed as a crackpot. The legislation passed both houses of the Republican-controlled Legislature with distressingly large majorities. Gov. Jan Brewer then proudly signed it into law. 
 Now Mr. Pearce is at it again with this new proposal, meant to end what he calls the ''inadvertent and unforeseen'' consequences of the 14th Amendment's citizenship clause. He pins it all on the phrase ''subject to the jurisdiction thereof,'' arguing that the babies of illegal immigrants -- like the children of foreign diplomats -- do not have full allegiance to this country, and thus do not deserve automatic citizenship. It is a spurious argument.
 Mr. Pearce's bill, we fear, is likely to get a sympathetic hearing in Arizona's Legislature. Governor Brewer told interviewers this month that illegal immigrants should leave and take their citizen children with them.
 President Obama, who has criticized the first Arizona law, has so far failed to use his power to block it, though his administration is preparing a lawsuit to do so. He needs to reassert sole federal authority over a rational and humane immigration system, and stop Arizona and other states from creating a crazy quilt of harsh statutes, some crazier than others.
 Until the president and all people of conscience stand up to these bullies, they will keep pushing. The Constitution and the civil rights of thousands of people must not be violated this way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACIAL PROFILING (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); POLICE FORCES (69%); QUILTS & QUILTING (61%); TOURISM (55%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



555 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Legislative Hurdles in an Era Of Conflict, Not Compromise

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It was a little-noted vote on an unremarkable bill, but it spoke volumes about the current state of Congress.
 The House was considering a measure to give tax advantages to small businesses, debating the sort of imperfect but well-intentioned legislation that would have previously breezed through since it was aimed at a favored constituency of both parties and provided tangible benefits in a rocky economy. And it was paid for.
But the final vote of 247 to 170 broke almost strictly along party lines, with only five Republicans voting for the measure even though a senior Republican responsible for tax issues acknowledged that there were positive aspects to the bill. Instead, Republicans offered an alternative that would have repealed a central element of the new health care law, a proposal that had zero chance of passing but made for a good political attack. 
 The outcome left Representative Sander M. Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, scolding his colleagues across the aisle. ''You say you agree with these provisions, but then you're going to vote no,'' he said as the floor fight wrapped up. ''You just don't apparently want to be caught being bipartisan. It's going to blur the political message.''
 The approach of the midterm elections, the angry state of the electorate and intense political positioning have deepened partisan divisions in Congress to the point where it is becoming nearly impossible to lure lawmakers across the aisle.
 The phenomenon has shown itself in the Senate as well in the current impasse over a package of tax breaks and safety-net spending. Extending unemployment benefits in times of economic duress used to be a popular vote, but not one Republican was willing to join Democrats on Thursday to break a filibuster holding up added jobless pay.
 In his weekly address on Saturday, President Obama made note of the impasse, saying he was ''disappointed this week to see a dreary and familiar politics get in the way of our ability to move forward on a series of critical issues that have a direct impact on people's lives.''
 Addressing the unwillingness of Republicans to allow a vote on extending jobless benefits, Mr. Obama said that ''if this obstruction continues, unemployed Americans will see their benefits stop.
 ''Teachers and firefighters will lose their jobs. Families will pay more for their first home.''
 He added: ''I know the political season is upon us in Washington. But gridlock as a political strategy is destructive to the country.''
 Senate Republicans say they want to keep the $40 billion cost of extending jobless benefits from being added to the deficit. But the deficit was not the issue on the small-business measure in the House. Republicans said it came up short despite what they conceded were worthwhile features.
 ''While the tax relief in here is welcome, it's not enough,'' said Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, the senior Republican on the Ways and Means Committee.
 Representative Michael N. Castle of Delaware, one of the five Republicans to back the tax plan and one of just three to vote for a small-business loan program a few days later, said the gulf between the parties had grown so wide that most Republicans simply refused to vote for any Democratic legislation.
 ''It is just the politics of the time,'' said Mr. Castle, who is running for the Senate. ''We are just into a mode where there is a lot Republican resistance to voting for anything the Democrats are for or the White House is for. I think part of it is where the polling is and how things seem to be going from a political point of view. It is an election year.''
 Mr. Castle said that the hardening divisions were not good for the nation's future, and that it was not just Republicans who needed to give some thought to their approach, but Democrats as well.
 Other Republicans say they are not dismissing Democratic initiatives out of hand; they say that the Democratic view of how to govern is simply wrongheaded and that they will not be a part of it.
 ''I realize my colleagues on the other side of the aisle sometimes can't understand why Republicans vote against their ill-conceived legislation,'' said Representative Virginia Foxx, Republican of North Carolina. ''It is really because we have a very different philosophy about what makes this country successful.''
 She said that philosophy was not ''taking money from hardworking taxpayers,'' funneling it through the bureaucracy and returning some to small businesses.
 But as Mr. Castle conceded, politics are at work as well. If Republicans were to vote for Democratic legislation, it would represent a tacit acknowledgment that some Democratic ideas merit support -- not the message Republicans want to send right now. They are working hard to portray Democrats as inept and themselves as a worthy alternative.
 At the same time, the Republican base has moved into an agitated, anti-Democratic posture. So any Republican who backs Democratic legislation runs the risk of being accused of consorting with the enemy and facing a challenge from the right or falling out of favor with conservatives like those allied with the Tea Party.
 The deep unwillingness to cross party lines also reflects some fundamental changes in the nature of Congress in an increasingly polarized era. The ranks of veteran lawmakers experienced in working together and cutting deals are diminishing at the same time the political and media environment is providing greater rewards to those engaged in conflict rather than compromise.
 Whether the deep reluctance to consider opposition legislation will persist after November is an open question, and perhaps outside events will again force the parties to work together. But as the split on the small-business measure showed, the chances for much legislative cooperation between now and Election Day appear remote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Steny H. Hoyer, left, with Jennifer Collins, right, a small-business owner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Sander M. Levin scolded Republicans who do not ''want to be caught being bipartisan.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); LAYOFFS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (61%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STENY HOYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010



556 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: China Signals That It Will Let Currency Rise

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; David E. Sanger and Sewell Chan contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China announced on Saturday evening that it would allow greater flexibility in the value of its currency, a move that could deflect growing international criticism of its economic policies and defuse one of the greatest sources of tension between Beijing and Washington. 
 The statement, by China's central bank, was the clearest sign yet that the country would allow its currency to appreciate gradually against the dollar. World leaders are due to meet next week in Canada for economic talks, and China's currency policies had appeared a certain source of conflict. 
 The United States has been leading a chorus of countries urging China to let its currency fluctuate. Many members of Congress believe China's exchange rate policy gives it an unfair trade advantage, and a movement has been growing to take retaliatory trade action if China did not make an adjustment. 
 President Obama and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, immediately praised China's action. ''China's decision to increase the flexibility of its exchange rate is a constructive step that can help safeguard the recovery and contribute to a more balanced global economy,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement. The European Commission also said it supported the move. 
 But it remains to be seen whether the move will significantly rebalance the global trade picture. The People's Bank of China was cautious in its statement about how far its currency, the renminbi, might fluctuate, warning explicitly that ''the basis for large-scale appreciation of the RMB exchange rate does not exist.'' Chinese officials said the renminbi would move in relation to an unspecified basket of currencies, not just the dollar. Experts said that depending on how the system was designed, China could avoid rapid fluctuations. 
 Mr. Geithner alluded to this in a statement, saying, ''This is an important step, but the test will be how far and how fast they let the currency appreciate.'' 
 The first sign of how much currency appreciation will be tolerated is likely to come Monday morning, when the Chinese government will set the initial trading band for the value of the renminbi in Shanghai trading.
 China has kept its currency value low since mid-2008 by pegging it to that of the dollar and not letting it fluctuate. Any trend in the renminbi's value would have been higher without the peg, making China's goods more expensive to foreign consumers and possibly slowing the country's export-based economy.
 In its statement Saturday, the central bank said that the Chinese economy was strengthening after the crisis and that it was ''desirable to proceed further with reform'' of the currency. Tellingly, the announcement was made almost simultaneously in Chinese and in English, a rare occurrence, and Chinese officials advised foreign governments beforehand that they were about to take a new stance on currency policy, according to an American official.
 Though China said its action was based on the interests of its own economy, it has been under rising pressure from the United States, the European Union, Brazil and India. Mr. Obama had held repeated conversations with President Hu Jintao over the last year or so, the most recent of which was two weeks ago, and Mr. Geithner traveled to China for meetings last month.
 China has handled currency policy gingerly, fearing that its people might see appreciation as a step taken in response to foreign pressure that might not be in the national interest. 
 For Mr. Obama, China's currency has been a particularly sticky problem. He also has been leaning on Beijing to help contain the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea, to act as one of the main engines for the world economy, and to moderate its efforts to gain exclusive access to raw materials around the world needed to fuel China's huge growth. 
 But Mr. Obama's leverage has been minimal, and in the end it may have been the threat of a Congressional bill's protectionist actions against Chinese products that convinced Beijing that it had to begin to free its currency.
 That threat had been gaining ground in Congress among lawmakers convinced that China was keeping its currency value artificially low to the detriment of the American economy. 
 ''China's currency practice has cost American jobs and hurt American ranchers, farmers and small businesses,'' Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said in a statement Saturday. ''Today's announcement is a welcome first step to help keep American businesses competitive and create more American jobs.'' 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, however, cautioned that unless China gave further detail to its plan, ''we will have no choice but to move forward with our legislation.''
 If the renminbi were to rise significantly, goods from the United States and other countries could eventually start displacing Chinese exports. That could help fuel economic growth in many of China's trading partners, while braking growth in China, which has been expanding so fast that inflation is now accelerating.
 Rising wages after recent labor unrest, combined with a stronger currency, may also make China a more attractive consumer market for international companies. But this could help Europe more than America, whose exports to China have been weak and concentrated in a few categories like aircraft, turbines and soybeans, while European companies have been more successful in selling high-end consumer goods there.
 For China, a stronger renminbi will increase the buying power of its consumers and could make gasoline and other imported commodities seem less expensive. Faced with spreading labor unrest, particularly in the auto industry, the government has started to make an energetic effort to improve the standard of living of industrial workers.
 But many economists inside and outside China have argued that currency appreciation is in China's interest most of all. The country has been spending nearly one-tenth of its annual economic output to buy Treasury notes and bonds and other foreign securities while printing and selling renminbi, all in an effort to prevent the renminbi from rising against the dollar.
 The renminbi has already risen with the dollar by 15 percent against the euro in the last two months. That has made Chinese officials nervous about the future competitiveness of Chinese sales to Europe, the biggest market for Chinese exports.
 Cui Tiankai, a vice foreign minister, said on Friday that the value of the renminbi was not a subject for global discussion, the latest in a series of remarks by Chinese officials indicating strong nationalistic sensitivities about currency policy.
 But people familiar with Chinese currency policy making have been saying for two months that the Chinese leadership agreed in early April to a change of direction. A devastating earthquake in western China in mid-April followed by worries about economic turmoil in Europe delayed action on the decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



557 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton Speaks Out on Court Nominee, Recalling Her Service in White House

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Former President Bill Clinton vividly remembers the first presentation that his young legal adviser, Elena Kagan, made in the Oval Office.
 Against the wishes of his economic team and top Congressional Democrats, Mr. Clinton in late 1995 was considering vetoing new legislation that was framed as a way to halt frivolous lawsuits against the securities industry. At his direction, Ms. Kagan had analyzed the bill and determined that it would raise the bar so high for such suits that shareholders could be prevented from pursuing legitimate fraud claims.
 ''There she was, in her mid-30s starting out in her career, with the entire economic team, all of them against her position, and she knew it,'' he said Friday in a phone interview, making his first extensive public comments about his onetime aide since her nomination to the Supreme Court. 
 ''She stood there and defended her conclusion,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''It was very impressive. She was composed, direct and totally unfazed that all those guys wanted a different outcome.'' 
 Mr. Clinton accepted her judgment and issued a surprise veto -- one of two occasions when he was overridden by Congress. 
 He went on to name Ms. Kagan to a federal appeals court position, though her nomination was never acted on by the Republican-led Senate.
 As hearings now approach on her nomination to the Supreme Court, Mr. Clinton said he saw her as a strong choice by President Obama.
 ''She was unfailingly meticulous in trying to determine what the law actually is and what the facts actually were,'' he said. ''She never let whatever feelings she had get in the way of doing that. I think she can be fair.''
 The positive comments and recollections by Mr. Clinton were one of the final bits of careful choreography leading up to the confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee, which are scheduled to begin June 28. Ms. Kagan will no doubt face questions about her work in the Clinton White House as both an associate counsel and a domestic policy adviser.
 Recounting Ms. Kagan's role in politically charged issues like welfare reform and abortion, Mr. Clinton said he thought she benefited from working in the White House and seeing how federal law and policy intersected with real-world conditions.
 ''It exposed her to a lot of things,'' he said. ''You want somebody on the court who is really smart and knows the law and understands it. But you also want somebody who cares about the impact of the decisions they make on ordinary people. Will this law change the lives of people, and if so, how?''
 One such instance, he said, was his decision to twice veto legislation written by Republicans to outlaw the procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion. Mr. Clinton said the fight over banning a procedure that he himself opposed was very intense as Republicans sought to build a case for coming elections.
 He said he might have been inclined to sign the measure had advisers found it to be a ''close call'' on whether it was constitutional and did not require an exception for cases where the health of the mother was at risk -- a main point of contention. 
 But he said his view was bolstered by internal legal opinions that said the Republican measure was flawed without an exception for the health of the mother. His decision to veto the measure was driven home at a White House news conference, he said, when five women spoke agonizingly about undergoing the procedure because of serious risks to themselves and their fetuses.
 ''The truth is, for a very small percentage of women with a problem it was medically necessary,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''At least that is what I thought and that is what she thought.''
 Ms. Kagan referred to the five women herself in a 1997 memo to Mr. Clinton that she co-authored, saying they would fall under the health exception included in a stringent Democratic abortion proposal she recommended the president endorse in keeping with his call for a narrow exception available only when a woman ''faces real, serious adverse health consequences.''
 Mr. Clinton said he believed that Ms. Kagan's role as a White House representative in talks with Congress over tobacco legislation showed that she could play a strong part in shaping Supreme Court opinions.
 As for concerns from the left that Ms. Kagan might be too much of a centrist to provide a liberal counterweight to conservative justices, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that he did not see her as a liberal in the mold of Justices Thurgood Marshall or William J. Brennan Jr.
 ''I think she is really sort of a common-sense progressive,'' he said. ''I think she has good liberal values, but she is also immensely practical, and I think she will be fair to both parties.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JUDGES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); ABORTION (60%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); ELENA KAGAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



558 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Gary Lowman, Brock McCormack

BYLINE: By PAULA SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
William Gary Lowman Jr. and Brock Patrick McCormack were married Saturday evening at the Westin Grand hotel in Washington. Perry L. Patterson, who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated. 
 The couple, both 30, met at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., from which they received law degrees and from which Mr. Lowman graduated, summa cum laude. (He was a student of Dr. Patterson, an economics professor.) 
 Mr. Lowman (left) is known as Gary. He has been undergoing training at the State Department in Washington to become a Foreign Service officer. Next month, he is to begin a two-year assignment in Shanghai as a consular officer. He also has a master's degree in elementary education from Pace University.
 He is a son of Rita J. Lowman and William Gary Lowman of Sarasota, Fla. His mother is the executive vice president and chief administrative officer of the American Momentum Bank in Tampa, Fla. His father, who is retired, worked in Chicago as a national sales manager for the cheese brand division of Kraft Foods. 
 Until September, Mr. McCormack was an associate specializing in immigration law at Fisher & Phillips, a firm in Atlanta. He graduated cum laude from Tufts.
 He is the son of Linda K. McCormack of Houston and the late Patrick J. McCormack. His father was a project manager in Houston for the Bechtel Corporation. 
 The couple met in August 2004 during their first week of law school. Mr. Lowman and a female classmate who was his roommate went on a class outing to a minor league baseball game in Winston-Salem. But the roommate had an agenda and wanted Mr. Lowman to help her out. 
 ''She said there was this guy who was really cute, but she didn't know if he was gay or not, so she wanted me to check him out,'' he said.
 Mr. McCormack said he was totally out of place because he never attended baseball games. ''I didn't know they were scoping me out,'' he said.
 Mr. McCormack added that he had already noticed Mr. Lowman on campus. 
 ''I could see him talking to friends, and they were all laughing,'' Mr. McCormack said. ''I could see he was a fun spirit, but I wanted to be focused on my law studies, so I kept my nose in the books and didn't pursue him.''
 Later that year they became good friends, with their relationship blossoming from there as they discovered more and more shared interests. 
 ''He would come over to my house, and we would play different Broadway soundtracks and sing along,'' Mr. McCormack said. ''We both knew all the words to 'Wicked,' and that's how we bonded.''
 Their relationship turned romantic at a Super Bowl party that Mr. McCormack hosted in February 2006. He had invited a group of friends who were not big football fans, and after watching for a while, he and Mr. Lowman turned on show tunes and got up and sang.
 ''Everyone else just watched and laughed at us while we were singing to 'Rent' -- we really got into our roles,'' Mr. Lowman said. ''I hugged him, and I could feel him hug me back, and it just felt right.'' PAULA SCHWARTZ 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); BASEBALL (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); CHEESE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); SALES MANAGEMENT (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (67%)

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (66%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (72%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (57%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



559 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''We call them 'The Girl Who's Paying Our Salaries for the Next Few Months.''' Gerry Donaghy of Powell's bookstore in Portland, Ore., on the runaway success of Stieg Larsson's trilogy of mysteries. The third in the series, ''The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest,'' came out last month. 
 ''We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused.'' President Obama during his speech on the oil spill. BP said it would create a $20 billion fund to pay damage claims to thousands of fishermen and others along the Gulf Coast.
 ''There's fear not just for economic survival, but for a way of life.'' Dr. Tony Speier of the office of mental health at the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, who says the oil spill is taking a psychological toll on fishermen and other workers most affected by it.
 ''We see buyers who must have learned their moves from the World Wrestling Federation.'' Glenn Kelman, chief executive of the online broker Redfin. Exacting buyers are upending the battered real estate market, agents and other experts say, leading to last-minute demands for multiple concessions, bruised feelings on all sides and many more collapsed deals than usual.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); OIL SPILLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REAL ESTATE (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%) OREGON, USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA (69%); LOUISIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



560 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. HOPES TRIBAL COUNCILS WILL UNDERCUT TALIBAN RULE
 The election of a tribal council in Nadali, Afghanistan, is part of a pilot program to set up 100 district councils to provide representative government in places where government has largely been absent. The hope is the councils will convince people that there is a viable alternative to Taliban rule. PAGE 6
 REPORT ON AFGHAN VIOLENCE 
 With an average of an assassination a day and a suicide bombing every second or third day, insurgents have greatly increased the level of violence in Afghanistan, and have become by far the biggest killers of civilians there, the United Nations said in a new report. PAGE 12
 MEXICAN ACTIVISTS' WORRIES
 With a drug war raging around them and an unreliable judicial system in place, Mexico's human rights activists have their hands full as they grapple with a new class of victims: themselves. PAGE 14
 REBELS CLASH IN TURKEY
 Kurdish rebels fighting for autonomy in southeast Turkey attacked a military post in a far eastern town, killing 8 soldiers and wounding at least 14, the semiofficial Anatolian News Agency reported. PAGE 14
 Iraqis Protest Power Shortage 10
 Missile Kills Militants in Pakistan 12
 National
 AN ECONOMIC CENTERPIECE CLOSES SHOP IN INDIANA
 Whirlpool plans to close its plant in Evansville, Ind., on Friday and move the operation to Mexico, eliminating 1,100 jobs. Many in the city in southern Indiana are seething and sad about losing what was long the city's economic centerpiece and a ticket to the middle class for one generation after another. PAGE 16
 CHANGING TACK ON CRIME
 R. Seth Williams, the new district attorney in violence-weary Philadelphia had vowed not to get tough on crime but to get ''smart on crime.'' And after being battered for years by the worst sort of superlatives -- the highest murder rate, the lowest conviction rate -- the city seems ready to give Mr. Williams and his ideas a chance. PAGE 16
 BP Chief Takes In Yacht Race 20
 Bill Clinton Speaks About Kagan 23
 Metropolitan
 CONTESTING A MOSQUE ON STATEN ISLAND
 Jim Dwyer writes that it is difficult to imagine that a new church would face the same opposition as a deal for a Muslim group to buy an empty convent from a Catholic parish on Staten Island has. Yet such antagonism has a long history in New York. About New York. PAGE 1
 Sports
 ONE MAY BE THE BEST, 
 But Another Is Better
 Wimbledon will serve largely as fodder for a confounding debate: Roger Federer may be the best men's tennis player in history, but he may not be as good as his rival Rafael Nadal. PAGE 1
 OIL SPILL HALTS SPORT FISHING
 In the wake of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, many of the top fishing events in the region have been postponed or canceled. Those in recreational fishing regard the sport as a crucial part of the region's economy. Industry-financed studies estimate that the annual number of day trips on boats to fish in the gulf is 23.5 million, in addition to millions fishing from the shoreline. PAGE 8
 Previews of World Cup Matches 6
 Obituaries
 BILL DIXON, 84
 A maverick trumpeter, composer, educator, he was a major force in the avant-garde jazz movement of the 1960s and known for the deep and almost liquid texture of his sound. PAGE 26
 FRANK W. BALLARD, 80
 A master puller of strings, he helped bring the study of puppetry into the university curriculum and in so doing trained a generation of lively disciples. PAGE 26
 Sunday Business
 SURGEON VS. KNEE MAKER: WHO'S REJECTING WHOM?
 Dr. Richard A. Berger trained doctors for Zimmer Holdings for a decade. But after he raised concerns about artificial knees it made, the company questioned his implant technique. It is a rare clash between a top consultant and his corporate patron over patient safety. PAGE 1
 FIGHTING PC DELAYS
 Soluto, a company based in Tel Aviv, aims to help PC owners minimize irritating slowdowns. The software runs in the background, collecting data on delays and sending the information to company servers for analysis. PAGE 3 
 TREMORS OF A CODING ERROR
 When you put your money into quantitative funds, which try to generate profit with computer algorithms, you are trusting that its algorithms make sense and, furthermore, that they have been properly entered into computer code. PAGE 6
 Arts & Leisure
 UNEXPECTED HARMONY: ASIAN-AMERICAN POP
 For Legaci (the four Filipino-American R&B singers now backing up Justin Bieber's tour) and other Asian-American artists, YouTube offers exposure rarely offered by the recording industry. PAGE 1
 Magazine
 A CIVIC WAR
 Based in the Arghandab District, just north of Kandahar, Lt. Col. Guy Jones and his troops are at the epicenter of America's toughest battle in Afghanistan: the effort to build responsible self-government in the war-torn country. PAGE 24
 Book Review
 'HITCH-22'
 In his memoir, the extravagantly colorful journalist Christopher Hitchens quickly converts tender memories into larger observations about politics. Reviewed by Jennifer Senior. PAGE 1
 Sunday Styles
 THE AVENGER
 Gloria Allred started out as a pioneering legal advocate for women's rights. Now, she is the fierce go-to lawyer for women in scandal. But Ms. Allred also handles many worthy cases that never see the light of the flashbulb. PAGE 1
 Automobiles
 ALFA AT 100
 Alfa Romeo is turning 100. And topping the birthday events is a gathering of Alfas in the company's hometown, Milan, June 26-27. More than 1,500 historic Alfas are expected. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 11 
 Week in Review
 AT HOME, STRESS IS EQUAL
 Father's Day brings this offering of a dubious milestone: Several studies show that husbands are just as stressed as their harried wives. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 ON FINANCIAL REFORM,
 Congress Defends Big Guys
 In talks over the financial reform bill, Democratic lawmakers are catering to corporate interests that prefer the status quo -- and write big campaign checks. Week in Review, PAGE 7
 Online
 VIDEO Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi has become the de facto director of tourism for the Gulf Coast.
 nytimes.com/national

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); SPORT FISHING (84%); TENNIS (83%); SPORTS (83%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CRIME RATES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); MURDER (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); ATHLETES (60%); OIL SPILLS (60%); BOAT RACING (50%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (50%); ROGER FEDERER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



561 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Who Are the Boomers?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Midlife, Boomers Are Happy -- and Suicidal'' (Week in Review, June 13): 
 The mistake researchers (and the media) make when looking to analyze the statistics is lumping all baby boomers together as if we're some sort of club. It shouldn't be a surprise that we who are over 50 are many things besides being over 50. The boomer label implies that we are all the same and that our feelings and experiences can be lumped together, which of course is not true.
 In fact, many of us have nothing in common. We are married, single, divorced, widowed, retired, working, unemployed, wealthy, middle class, physically fit, fat, skinny, disabled, Republicans, Democrats, meat eaters, gym rats, disabled, vegetarians, gay, straight, parents, grandparents, introverts, go-getters, old-fashioned, trendy, and every race and religion under the sun.
 We just all happen to be over 50, and there are more of us.
 Gary Geyer Mission Viejo, Calif., June 15, 2010
 The writer is chief editor of the online boomer magazine LetLifeIn.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); WRITERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); GRANDPARENTS (68%); MEAT FREE DIETS (67%); RELIGION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



562 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE SPREADING SLICK JUNE 13-19; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

 BODY:
THE NEWS In his first televised address to the nation from the Oval Office, President Obama promised a long-term plan to restore the Gulf Coast region, economically and environmentally, from the effects of the oil leaking from an offshore well. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The president used the occasion to summon Americans to a ''national mission'' to reduce reliance on oil and develop alternative energy, calling on Congress to act quickly to overcome ''a lack of political courage and candor.'' He was open to bipartisan ideas, he said, but ''the one approach I will not accept is inaction.'' 
 THE NEWS Under intense pressure from the White House, BP, the oil company responsible for the stricken well, agreed to set aside $20 billion over 3 1/2 years in a special fund to pay claims related to the spill.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The fund and the process of paying claims will be administered independently of the company and the government by Kenneth R. Feinberg, whose past assignments as a ''special master'' include overseeing executive pay under the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the compensation fund for victims of the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 THE NEWS After a meeting at the White House to complete the compensation fund agreement, BP's chairman, Carl-Henric Svanberg, announced that the company would suspend quarterly dividends for the rest of the year, which would have totaled about $8 billion.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Though BP said it had ample cash flow to cover the costs of fighting the spill and paying claims, it bowed to demands that it not reward shareholders while people in the gulf region were still suffering. The move was a blow to Britain, where BP accounts for 14 percent of all dividends paid by the 100 top public companies. 
 THE NEWS A government panel declared that 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of crude oil could now be spewing into the gulf from the stricken well every day.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The new range is roughly double the previous estimate of 25,000 to 30,000 barrels a day, and 7 to 12 times the initial 5,000-barrel-a-day figure that the government and BP clung to for weeks. It reflects the fact that the riser pipe from the well had to be cut, increasing the leak rate, to fit the containment cap that is now trapping some of the leaking oil. BP hopes to be recapturing and processing 50,000 barrels a day by the end of June. 
 THE NEWSTony Hayward, the chief executive of BP, under relentless questioning by a House committee, offered apologies for the oil spill disaster but denied any personal responsibility for the decisions that may have led to it.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Though his demurrals drew indignation from some on the committee, Mr. Hayward insisted that he was not stonewalling when he said he knew nothing of the well's history of problems before it blew on April 20, and refused to draw conclusions about the causes. The next day, he was relieved of his responsibilities for BP's spill response.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOM HEVEZI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
BP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DIVIDENDS (88%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL SPILLS (77%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); CASH FLOW (71%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TONY HAYWARD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010



563 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Debt Crisis In Europe Not All Bad

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Don't say it too loudly, but for some European businesses, the sovereign debt crisis is not so bad. Assuming that the turmoil does not destroy the euro zone, there are some positive side effects, including a falling currency and extraordinarily low official interest rates. 
 Siemens, the electronics and engineering company based in Munich, is one example. With 18 percent of its sales in Asia, and an additional 27 percent in the United States, Canada and Latin America, the company is in a good position to profit from recovering demand in those regions for Siemens products like high-speed trains, wind generators and factory equipment. 
 In April, while European Union political leaders struggled to contain the continental debt crisis, Siemens raised its forecast for 2010 operating profit to 7.5 billion, or $9.3 billion, from 6.5 billion. ''One can't ignore the sovereign debt problems, but it hasn't affected our business,'' Peter Y. Solmssen, a member of Siemens' management board who is responsible for its U.S. operations, said during an interview Friday. 
 While Germans have complained the loudest about having to bail out Greece and the other overindebted nations, Germany is arguably the big winner from the financial crisis in the form of lower interest rates and a more robust stock market. 
 One risk of the current crisis is that it will create a sharper divide between poorer Southern Europe and prosperous Northern Europe, adding to tensions about how to manage the euro-zone economy. Mr. Solmssen of Siemens, and others, note that they would definitely not want to see the euro zone disintegrate, because the common currency makes it easier to do business.
 For many companies in Europe, the debt problems of Greece or Portugal are little more than a distraction. Greece, which accounts for 2.5 percent of the gross national product in the euro zone, is not an important market for most large multinationals. The gyrations of bond markets have little daily effect in a region where banks are still the most important source of credit for smaller companies. Most executives worry more about the European export numbers, which have been improving. 
 ''There is a considerable mismatch between the financial world and the real economy,'' said Ben Noteboom, chief executive of Randstad, a temporary staffing company based in Amsterdam. 
 Some types of companies even profit from the crisis. Hedge funds, which can exploit market volatility, have recouped most of their losses from the end of 2007, the European Central Bank noted in a recent report. 
 Randstad is another example of a company that may be benefiting from the crisis, though Mr. Noteboom does not say that. Though Randstad's revenue fell sharply in some markets during the downturn last year, demand has begun recovering strongly, Mr. Noteboom said. Companies may be more willing to hire temporary workers than permanent workers in the first stages of a recovery, when executives are still uncertain about the strength of the economy. 
 Mr. Noteboom sees Randstad as something of a barometer of where the macroeconomy is going. If so, the signs are good. The overall market for temporary workers is up by 10 percent or more in Germany, France and Belgium, and nearly that much in the Netherlands, Mr. Noteboom said. He said he had even seen growth in Greece, though from a low level. ''I'm optimistic,'' Mr. Noteboom said. ''Almost very optimistic.'' 
 To profit from the sovereign debt crisis, it helps not to be a bank. Even the institutions that are not sitting on big portfolios of Greek or Portuguese bonds face stricter government oversight in years to come. Analysts say the regulations could put an end to the double-digit profit margins banks enjoyed before the financial crisis. 
 It also helps if your company headquarters is in a country with a Baltic rather than a Mediterranean coastline. The cost of credit has soared in countries like Spain, because the interest rates that companies pay on loans is closely tied to the rates that their governments pay. Chalk up another competitive disadvantage for companies doing business in the so-called peripheral countries. 
 But for Germany and other countries in Northern Europe, the crisis has brought lower interest rates. German bonds are considered a haven from the turmoil in sovereign debt markets. That means German companies are also paying lower risk premiums. 
 One business, the German rental car company Sixt, even raised 300 million late last year and made a profit reinvesting the proceeds in bonds of other corporations. Sixt will use the money to refinance existing debt, a spokesman said. 
 More than their counterparts in Greece or even France, German companies are able to collect the full benefit of the European Central Bank's historically low benchmark interest rate of 1 percent. 
 And the easy-money party is likely to last for many months to come. Many analysts don't expect the E.C.B. to begin raising rates until mid-2011, as the bank struggles to cope with the debt crisis. 
 ''The expectations for a rate hike have been pushed further and further back,'' said Britta Weidenbach, senior fund manager for European equities at DWS, the fund management arm of Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. That definitely has a positive side.'' 
 The DAX 30-share index in Frankfurt has risen 4.65 percent this year, more than the French benchmark index or the broader Euro Stoxx 50 index. 
 The gains reflect the presence of exporters like Siemens as well as MAN, a maker of trucks; or Bayerische Motoren Werke, the maker of BMW cars; or SAP, which sells software used by companies to run their operations. All have benefited from the 15 percent decline in the euro this year against the dollar, which makes sales in the United States more profitable when converted back into the European currency. 
 The decline in the euro was prompted by the problems of Greece, Spain and Portugal, which will also benefit. But they will not gain as much as the northern countries, according to a Citigroup analysis. ''Our economists expect ongoing economic underperformance from Southern Europe relative to Northern Europe over the coming quarters and years,'' analysts at Citigroup Global Markets wrote in a report last week.
 Another company shrugging off the crisis is the German sports apparel maker Adidas, and not just because of its ties to the soccer World Cup in South Africa. The improving U.S. market has helped sales of Adidas' Reebok unit, while growth in emerging markets like Russia is more than compensating for slower European sales. 
 Outside Germany, companies like the Dutch electronics maker Philips or Scandinavian companies like Volvo, which makes Mack trucks, are also among the beneficiaries of demand from China and other emerging markets. Volvo, which is separate from the maker of Volvo cars, said Wednesday that deliveries were up 44 percent in May from a year earlier. 
 At Siemens, overall revenue fell 4 percent from January through March, to 18.2 billion. But Mr. Solmssen said there were clear signs of recovery, including new orders for factory equipment, a category that contracted in the downturn. 
 ''Even in some of the more stricken industries, like the auto industry, are starting to order again,'' Mr. Solmssen said. ''Across the board we're seeing improvement.'' 
 Even the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has an upside for Siemens. The BP disaster may hurt Siemens' business providing services to the oil industry. But the loss may be more than offset by stronger demand for gas turbines, wind generators, and equipment to make power grids function more efficiently. 
 At a factory in Fort Madison, Iowa, which received a visit from President Barack Obama in April, Siemens is producing 36 giant rotor blades a week to meet demand. The company is anticipating more sales as political pressure grows in the U.S. for alternatives to oil. 
 ''I think you're going to see an increased emphasis on that kind of technology,'' Mr. Solmssen said.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); DEBT CRISIS (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); BOND MARKETS (65%); TRAINS (55%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); RANDSTAD HOLDING NV (81%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%); RAND (AMS) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (81%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (81%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



564 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Razing the City To Save the City

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- For generations, residents of this hollowed-out city hoped that somehow Detroit could be reborn -- its population would return and its crumbling core would be rebuilt. No idea was more heretical than widespread demolition of thousands of derelict buildings. 
 But a new momentum has taken hold here that embraces just that: shrinking the city in order to save it. 
 ''There's nothing you can do with a lot of the buildings now but do away with them,'' said Mae Reeder, a homeowner of 35 years on the southeast side, where her bungalow is surrounded by blocks that are being reclaimed by nature, complete with pheasants nesting in vacant spaces where people once lived.
 The residential vacancy rate in Detroit is 27.8 percent. This is up from the 10.3 percent rate found in 2000 by the United States census. 
 ''People are deciding we can't live like this anymore,'' said Steven A. Ogden, executive director of a nonprofit group, Next Detroit Neighborhood Initiative, which works to help stabilize communities. ''It is my contention that we can't afford to wait a single day without a strategy.''
 Strategies are now coming from every corner, with community groups and nonprofit organization and trade groups producing frameworks. 
 The burst of creativity is partly a function of desperation. For the sixth decade in a row, this year's census will bring bad news: the population, already sparsely distributed over a vast 139 square miles, has declined again, to an estimated 790,000 residents, down from 951,000 people in 2000 and a high of almost 2 million in 1950. Population loss was hastened in the last few years, experts said, by the twin blows of the foreclosure crisis and jobs lost to the recession.
 Detroit has already struggled through 55,000 foreclosures since 2005 and is expecting another wave to hit soon as temporary moratoriums, meant to stabilize the nation's housing markets, are lifted. That will mean even more vacancy, emptiness and blight.
 After decades of mostly ignoring its hemorrhaging population, the city government earlier this year began using federal money to demolish 10,000 empty residential buildings, with a goal of bringing down the first 3,000 structures by the end of the year.
 But only 784 demolitions have been completed so far, and Mayor Dave Bing, whose predecessors were chastised at the mere mention of large-scale demolition, has been criticized not for embracing the idea but for failing to articulate a long-term vision. 
 ''They haven't really thought this through,'' said Kurt R. Metzger, an urban affairs expert and demographer who directs an independent agency, Data Driven Detroit, which is given money by foundations to create a demographic, real estate and infrastructure database about the city. ''You don't have any real direction given by anybody.'' 
 The group released a lot-by-lot survey in February showing that, on average, 20 to 30 percent of the city's lots were vacant.
 In February, Community Development Advocates of Detroit, a nonprofit trade group of local development organizations, offered a framework developed after 15 months of study that suggests classifying each part of the city into one of 11 neighborhood types like green zones, homestead sectors, village hubs and traditional residential sectors, to name a few. 
 High-density neighborhood hubs and downtown business and civic centers would be connected by green thoroughfares -- low-maintenance, naturally landscaped traveling corridors that could help Detroit handle one of its main challenges: that its strongest areas are on the fringes, with weaker patches scattered throughout the core. 
 An urban homestead -- one of the more popular parts of the plan -- would be tantamount to country living in the city, the plan says, with homeowners enjoying an agricultural environment and lower taxes in exchange for disconnecting from some city services like water.
 Another community group, Detroit Declaration, has developed a land-use policy that proposes setting up urban farming and reducing the size of lots for building to encourage housing development known as in-fill.
 Yet another proposal has come from Mr. Ogden's group, Next Detroit Neighborhood Initiative, which calls for an intensive intervention to prop up the city's strongest areas, the city's tax base and community anchors, which are just starting to suffer after weathering decades of storms.
 ''It's really about reorganizing our land to make a more livable city,'' said Tom Goddeeris, an architect who lives in the vibrant northwest part of the city and is a longtime advocate of rethinking Detroit. ''I don't know that it's ever been done before on our scale, but we've got to get started.''
 Despite the energy poured into rethinking the city by a half dozen groups, there are limits to how much those outside government can accomplish. There are both political and financial obstacles to putting any of the plans into effect. 
 For instance, though many of the plans presented to the city for consideration aim to create density in viable neighborhoods by consolidating and relocating residents from dying or dead neighborhoods, most do not go so far as to say which areas they would choose for destruction. Those decisions, group leaders said, are for the city to make.
 ''What we believe is that it should be data driven, in collaboration with residents,'' said Anita Lane, director of programs at Community Development Advocates of Detroit. Any process for redesigning the city, she said, ''needs to have all the stakeholders coming together to take ownership for this.'' 
 Her organization's idea to designate 11 types of neighborhood does not have a price tag yet, and it is hard to gauge how much the total remodeling of a city would cost, especially on the scale of Detroit, which is already on life support from the federal government and philanthropic organizations. As a point of reference for the cost of a larger project, the city is expected to spend $20 million on demolitions alone this year. 
 ''This is by far the biggest city that has faced this challenge in this country,'' said Frank Popper, a professor of planning and public policy at Rutgers University. ''Some of the thinking has been that Detroit would be the model.''
 That hope has taken a hit. 
 ''My sense is while there may be plans on the ground, the situation is so fluid that everybody's winging it,'' Dr. Popper said. ''I'm trying to follow it day to day, and I get the feeling of improvising all the way. But doing nothing is a prescription for dwindling away, if not dying.'' 
 There are skeptics of large-scale change, to be sure.
 The Michigan Citizen, a local alternative newspaper, has likened neighborhood change and possible resident relocation to ''a modern-day 'Trail of Tears' for Detroiters.''
 Adele Nieves, a public relations specialist who moved to Detroit from New Jersey three years ago, said she suspected something akin to a land grab in the works.
 ''It's in the government's interest to continue the perception that everything is abandoned and destroyed, or that Detroit needs to be flattened,'' she said.
 ''The reality is a different story,'' Ms. Nieves said as she extolled the virtues of her neighborhood in the Cass Corridor, where she grows her own food in a garden and has access to an increasing number of stores and restaurants. 
 No official strategy exists, beyond a nascent planning process. City officials said it was likely to take 18 to 24 months to develop a framework for moving forward, perhaps incorporating ideas from existing proposals. So far, members of the so-called land use summit have met once, in early May. Public-participation sessions are scheduled next month. 
 Under the city's demolition plan, 2,216 buildings have to be taken down by Dec. 31. What comes next is anyone's guess. Mayor Bing declined several requests to be interviewed for this article.
 ''We have a lot of history of things being promised, land being taken,'' said Janet Jones, a bookstore owner in the Cass Corridor, who is skeptical about the new proposals. ''We have to be vigilant about everything. We have to be on guard.'' 
 Many residents agree, however, that doing nothing is a recipe for continued, unplanned shrinkage and misery in the housing market.
 ''Those dreams of going back to two million -- no one believes that anymore,'' said Mr. Goddeeris, the architect. ''We've had a tumultuous couple of years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''It's really about reorganizing our land to make a more livable city,'' said Tom Goddeeris, an architect, far left. Janet Jones, a bookstore owner, is cautious. ''We have a lot of history of things being promised, land being taken,'' she said.
Mae Reeder has lived on the southeast side of Detroit for more than three decades. Over the years, the lots around her have been retaken by nature.
 One idea calls for the some abandoned areas of the city to be designated as agricultural. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); CENSUS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



565 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Local Level Fears Power Of NBC Deal

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Comcast, the nation's biggest cable provider, has long played hardball with competitors and content providers. Now that it is seeking control of NBC Universal in a $30 billion transaction, those competitors are piping up, expressing fears that Comcast will use its consolidated power to favor its own content and squeeze out rivals. 
 But one group has been noticeably silent: local television broadcasters. 
 The owners of local stations are worried that if Comcast owned NBC, its market power would hurt competing stations and drive down the prices that those cable companies pay to retransmit local programs, potentially reshaping the local TV landscape. 
 But the broadcasters have largely kept quiet about the concerns before the Monday deadline set by the Federal Communications Commission for public comments about the proposed sale. That is partly because they have been locked in negotiations with Comcast for months, trying to reach agreement on protections for competitors that both sides can live with.
 Most stakeholders expect regulators to approve the deal, with conditions attached, by early next year. A wide array of public officials has publicly supported the deal, citing economic benefits and programming opportunities for local communities. 
 The deal would be the first time that a powerhouse in pay cable would own one of America's few over-the-air networks.
 The combination comes at a particularly precarious time for broadcasters, when no less than the local station model itself is in doubt. Stations' advertising revenues have fallen in lockstep with the economy, and alternatives like direct-to-cable distribution look more attractive than ever.
 Comcast, of course, owns those direct-to-cable pipes, giving the roughly 200 NBC affiliates reason to fear that Comcast could bypass them altogether and take NBC's best-known shows straight to cable customers. Those affiliates have been wrapped up in talks with Comcast for months, and they are expected to support the sale -- with important caveats -- on Monday. 
 ''Never before have a network and a cable company -- of course, the country's biggest cable company -- been co-owned,'' said Brian Lawlor, the chairman of the NBC affiliate board, in explaining why ''there was initially apprehension'' when the deal was announced in 2009. Comcast has 23.5 million cable subscribers.
 Mr. Lawlor, who oversees the E. W. Scripps Company's 10 TV stations, and other representatives met repeatedly in New York and once in Comcast's hometown, Philadelphia, with Steve Burke, the Comcast chief operating officer and former ABC Broadcasting president. 
 In an F.C.C. filing on Monday, the affiliates will indicate support for the merger if a few conditions are attached. Among them: that Comcast will not move sports events like National Football League games and the major Olympic events from (free) NBC onto (pay) cable; and that, in the event that negotiations with a local station break down, Comcast will not bypass the station and deliver a same-day feed of NBC via cable.
 Mr. Lawlor, whose company also owns ABC-affiliated stations, said he had ''looked at this both ways'' and, after the meetings with Comcast, is ''walking away with a level of confidence in this.'' 
 The terms and the time frame for the conditions were unclear. In a statement on Friday, Comcast said, ''We've committed since the deal was announced to preserve and strengthen the over-the-air business model in the challenging economic environment facing broadcasters.''
 Comcast has said that it intends to retain ownership of the stations that NBC owns, something that the affiliates support because ''it's keeping skin in our game,'' Mr. Lawlor said.
 Brian Roberts, chairman and chief executive of Comcast, and Jeff Zucker, president and chief of NBC Universal, have assured lawmakers that the merger will benefit consumers. 
 Other station owners are markedly less confident, although most decline to comment on the record. Jim Goodmon, the president of the Capitol Broadcasting Company, which controls the CBS affiliate WRAL and other stations in North Carolina, said in an interview on Friday that the proposed deal is ''just beyond the pale.'' 
 ''Would they really allow Comcast and NBC to merge? That's controlling all the distribution. That's controlling all the programming,'' said Mr. Goodmon, a longtime opponent of media consolidation. ''There isn't any way that this could be in the public interest.''
 Echoing those concerns, the affiliates of ABC, CBS and Fox -- who compete fiercely in local markets -- teamed up in the winter to press regulators to attach conditions to the deal. In a letter to CBS affiliates in March, Tim Busch, an executive vice president at the Nexstar Broadcasting Group, conveyed concern that the merger would give Comcast reason to discriminate against non-NBC affiliates ''in terms of Comcast's cable carriage, retransmission consent negotiations, and advertising and promotion practices.''
 Corie Wright, a lawyer for Free Press, a nonprofit group that advocates for media reform and opposes the deal, said the non-NBC affiliates were also worried about the consolidated advertising power that Comcast would have in markets where it would own an NBC station as well as a cable franchise. ''Comcast will become one-stop shopping for advertising in those markets,'' she said, potentially hurting other broadcasters.
 Reached on Friday evening, Mr. Busch, said, ''Things are still in discussions'' with Comcast. He called the discussions productive and declined to comment further. 
 It is not just broadcasters that are fretting. The satellite distributor Dish Network, in a letter to lawmakers in February, warned that the deal would give Comcast the incentive to speed up connections to its own services, like the online TV hub Fancast, while slowing down connections to competing services. Comcast has a history of ''network management,'' rooted in action it took in 2007 to slow down its customers' access to some file-transferring applications. 
 A Comcast spokeswoman said, ''We treat all Web sites and services the same today, and have no plans to change that.''
 Concerns about unfair access persist among players like Bloomberg L.P., which is trying to turn its business channel into a serious competitor to the NBC-owned CNBC. Having expressed concern that Comcast would try to choke it, Bloomberg has demanded that Comcast treat its channel the same way as CNBC. 
 Conditions are regularly imposed on big media deals like the AOL-Time Warner merger and the News Corporation's purchase of a stake in DirecTV. Ms. Wright said, ''This merger goes wider and deeper than any of those.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian Roberts, left, of Comcast, and Jeff Zucker, of NBC Universal, at a House hearing in February on the proposed merger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MERGERS (77%); OLYMPICS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); APPROVALS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SPORTS (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); E W SCRIPPS CO (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); SSP (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



566 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Shinnecocks Hold Economic Cards, and Suitors Are Needy

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y.
 There's no irony or attitude at the Shinnecock Nation Cultural Center and Museum, just the whaling artifacts, the carved elk on the front door, the portraits and memorabilia of a people whose history on Long Island goes back thousands of years.
 Still, only a deity with a perverse sense of humor could have written the story of the Shinnecocks, which entered a new era on Tuesday when a 32-year legal effort culminated in the formal federal recognition of the tribe. 
 You could start with the locale: how the bays and beaches the Shinnecocks and their ancestors fished and nurtured for millennia morphed into not just the Hamptons, but some of the richest and snootiest precincts there. That left the Shinnecocks strangers in their own land, a largely poor tribe of 1,200 with an 800-acre reservation tucked amid the lime-green slacks, the $36 lobster roll (Silver's on Main Street) and the perma-tan, perma-thin habitues of this playground of the seriously rich.
 Then there's been the long legal dance and periodic skirmishes over the tribe's nuclear option: its threat to build a casino on the reservation that could have turned the standard East End gridlock into a graveyard of permanently immobilized Lexuses, Range Rovers and BMWs. 
 And now, with the economy still in the tank and development hard to come by, the outsiders at the banquet are the ones holding all the chips. The courting and wooing for what could be one of New York State's biggest economic projects in many years have been going on quietly for some time. 
 But the action begins in earnest next month, when, 30 days after the designation, the tribe can start taking official steps to build what could be New York's answer to Connecticut's mega-casinos. 
 ''When you look at the possibility of something like Foxwoods or Mohegan Sun hiring upwards of 10,000 people, this is a jobs issue and a revenue issue for troubled times and for the long run for Suffolk County,'' said Wayne R. Horsley, the county legislator who heads the county's gambling task force. ''We feel we've taken a very businesslike approach with the tribe. We want to be good neighbors. We feel we've been the grown-ups in this business.''
 Actually, all the grown-ups eyeing a casino have one thing in common: they're desperate for jobs and revenue. Gov. David A. Paterson said last week that the Shinnecocks were not eligible to bid on a video game casino at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, and there is no authorization for a casino at Belmont Park, but both sites have figured into speculation about the Shinnecocks in the past. The prospects for a proposed casino at Aqueduct could be affected in a big way if the Shinnecocks try to put a casino in Nassau or Suffolk.
 Coming up fast is the Nassau County executive, Edward P. Mangano, who in April started pushing the idea that the Lighthouse Project, the stuck-in-the-mud $3.7 billion project proposed for the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum site in Uniondale, could be home to a Shinnecock casino as well.
 Theoretically, this could be great for Mr. Mangano, who is facing what could be a $200 million budget deficit next year, but it does have something of an if-pigs-flew quality in the world capital of Nimby, where development ideas go to die and where many feel gambling is not the best use of the property.
 In Suffolk, perhaps a dozen sites have been floated by officials or suitors as tribal casino locations, the most entertaining being the shuttered Shoreham nuclear plant, which would give new meaning to the term ''nuclear option.'' 
 The two nonnuclear options getting the most play seem to be a privately held 95-acre spot in Calverton and the Brookhaven Calabro Airport, on 650 acres in Shirley. They're not exactly household names, but then, Connecticut didn't put its casinos in Hartford or New Haven, either. 
 The Brookhaven town supervisor, Mark Lesko, a former prosecutor, said he would have to see what residents thought if the tribe expressed an interest in the airport site, but, as with everyone else, his own interest seems clear. ''You're talking about a game changer for the community this comes to,'' he said.
 THE political and legal subplots could be endless, given the local, state, federal and tribal moving parts in building a casino off the Shinnecock reservation, which seems the only option. But if the state believes a casino at Aqueduct catering to metropolitan-area residents and a destination resort casino in Suffolk could coexist, things might unfold that way.
 And there's a final curveball: the Shinnecocks finally get in the casino game just as the odds have changed. Foxwoods might be in bankruptcy if Indian casinos could be in bankruptcy. Atlantic City is reeling. With Massachusetts among the states also looking to get in, there are too many slots and craps tables for too few, too poor, gamblers.
 Maybe nearly three million people in Nassau and Suffolk (not to mention eight million in New York City) constitute a closed loop that will make a grandiose casino project possible, but there's no guarantee.
 The one guarantee is that on Long Island, nothing gets built quickly. 
 Still, if the Shinnecocks and their ancestors have been around thousands of years, they can probably wait a few more for a casino to open.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Shinnecock Nation site in Southampton, N.Y., where in 2001 the tribe started clearing land for a casino. It was halted by a federal court order. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CASINOS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (67%); COUNTIES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (62%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



567 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Minister Wins Election in Colombia

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jenny Carolina Gonzalez contributed reporting from Bogota, Colombia.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- Colombian voters on Sunday overwhelmingly elected as their new president an American-educated former defense minister who oversaw a forceful counterinsurgency against the country's rebel groups. 
 Juan Manuel Santos took 69 percent of the vote in the second and final round of elections, against 27.5 percent for his rival, a former Bogota mayor, Antanas Mockus, Colombian electoral officials said Sunday night. 
 While Mr. Santos obtained a decisive majority, voting was marked by high levels of abstention and the killing by guerrillas over the weekend of at least 10 members of Colombia's security forces, a reminder that the country's four-decade war against leftist rebels is far from over. 
 The victory for Mr. Santos, an economist, points to continuity in Colombia's ties with the United States, which provides the country with hundreds of millions of dollars in security aid each year. Mr. Santos, like the outgoing president, Alvaro Uribe, has said he wants to preserve Colombia's position as Washington's leading Latin American ally. 
 In a recent interview in Bogota, Mr. Santos said he wanted Colombia to adopt a more active advisory role with the United States in hemispheric security issues, especially in combating the drug trade. Colombia has had some success recently in weakening cocaine cartels and reducing acreage where coca, the plant used to make cocaine, is grown. 
 ''We would like to stop being a simple country that begs for help every year and sit down at the same level and say we can help you, for example with what is happening with drugs in Central America or the Caribbean,'' said Mr. Santos, 58. ''I would hope that this motto of being a strategic ally could really become a reality.'' 
 Mr. Santos's ambitions of cultivating close ties with Washington make him something of an outlier in a region that is witnessing a steady erosion of American influence as China enhances its profile in the hemisphere and Brazil, Latin America's rising power, expands its political and economic reach. 
 He will face the immediate challenge of trying to repair Colombia's relations with Venezuela, a task complicated by the haven enjoyed in Venezuelan territory by Colombia's two main rebel groups, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, and the National Liberation Army, or E.L.N. 
 Mr. Santos, who studied at Harvard and the University of Kansas, has also frequently traded barbs with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, who has sharply reduced his country's imports from Colombia.
 Mr. Santos faces another challenge in neighboring Ecuador, where leftist officials still fume over a 2008 raid in Ecuadorean territory by Colombian forces that killed Raul Reyes, a senior FARC commander, and others. At the time, Mr. Santos was Colombia's defense minister. 
 A judge in Ecuador recently issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Santos over the raid, a move Mr. Santos described as ''completely illogical and against every aspect of international law.'' 
 While Mr. Santos must grapple with the animosity toward him in both Ecuador and Venezuela, his orchestration of crushing blows against the guerrillas, including the raid in Ecuador, and his identification as the political heir of Mr. Uribe, clearly worked in his favor among voters. 
 ''I went for Santos because we cannot lose what's been accomplished under Uribe,'' said Aleida Sierra, 27, a clothing saleswoman who voted Sunday in Bogota. 
 Still, Mr. Santos's mandate will differ substantially from that of Mr. Uribe, who served two terms as president and won plaudits for inroads against the insurgencies and the stabilization of the economy in Colombia, which still has exceedingly high levels of poverty and inequality. 
 ''For Santos, the social and economic agenda has to be a top priority,'' said Michael Shifter, the president of the policy study group Inter-American Dialogue. ''Nearly half the population lives in poverty, and Colombia has the region's highest unemployment level. His overwhelming support in rural strongholds can be interpreted as a demand for more jobs and better social welfare policies.'' 
 Dissatisfaction over Colombia's social inequalities and resilient corruption during Mr. Uribe's government had buoyed the candidacy of Mr. Mockus, the former Bogota mayor, until a series of gaffes derailed his chances. Mr. Mockus, a soft-spoken intellectual and the son of Lithuanian immigrants, still ran one of the most innovative campaigns in recent Latin American history, using social-media outlets, like Facebook and Twitter, to champion an anticorruption platform and unconventional ideas like raising taxes. 
 But at times he seemed vague and indecisive, as when he proposed Costa Rica, a small country without an army, as an example for Colombia to follow, despite the fact that it is one of Latin America's most militaristic countries. Mr. Mockus later reversed himself. 
 His Green Party also captured the imagination of idealists with pro-education posters that showed, for example, a pencil plugging the barrel of a gun. For others, however, Mr. Mockus, who acknowledged in interviews being hard to define ideologically, ultimately seemed a bit naive. 
 Alfredo Molano, a columnist for the newspaper El Espectador and one of Colombia's top social commentators, said he initially liked Mr. Mockus's honesty and fresh approach, but in the end could not vote for either him or Mr. Santos, the embodiment of Colombia's conservative political establishment. 
 For the political opposition to Mr. Santos, Mr. Molano said, ''These will be hard years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juan Manuel Santos took 69 percent of the vote to become Colombia's new president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VIZCAINO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); COCAINE (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); NARCOTERRORISM (87%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JUDGES (73%); CARTELS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); ARREST WARRANTS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); ARRESTS (50%)

PERSON: JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (92%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); ALVARO URIBE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (93%) KANSAS, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); ECUADOR (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



568 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Working to Help a Haven for Afghan Women Blossom

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- There was in the city an old garden, and in that garden there were trees, and under the trees there were women.
 And there were no scarves on the heads of the women who sat under the trees in the old Kabul Women's Garden. 
 That was all something remarkable once upon a time, as it is even now. Screened from male scrutiny by the leafy canopies of almond or apricot trees, women could go outside as they pleased, dare to wriggle naked toes in fountain water or just gossip without the veil.
 Now this oasis of freedom for women, surrounded by the misogynist desert of the capital city, is undergoing a rebirth. 
 As with so much happening today in Afghanistan, the midwives are foreigners, the gestation is troubled and the parents are hopeful. 
 Some say this fabled eight-acre enclosure in the Shahrara neighborhood of Kabul goes back to the days of Babur the Conqueror, in the 1500s. More reliably it is dated to the 1940s or '50s, when King Zahir Shah was said to have bequeathed it to the state.
 Karima Salik tells the story of the Kabul Women's Garden she remembers as a girl in the 1970s, a halcyon age for Afghanistan and its women, before the present 32 years of unbroken war began. 
 ''The trees covered everything,'' she recalled. ''There was laughter and chatter and music.'' 
 For the past three years, Ms. Salik has managed the garden, which is now in the midst of a $500,000 face-lift supported by the United States Agency for International Development and CARE International. Most of the money pays laborers who are landscaping, planting trees, rebuilding footpaths and raising the walls still higher. Women on construction projects are almost unheard of in Afghanistan, but the United States Agency for International Development program requires that at least 25 percent of the work force be female. Here they are 50 percent of it.
 Ms. Salik's childhood witnessed one of the most liberated periods for women in Afghan history, when the communist government took over in 1978 and enforced equality, banned the burqa and mandated education for girls.
 The revolt of the mujahedeen, led by conservative, rural warlords, wiped that all out in a few years' time. 
 People desperate for fuel felled the garden's trees for firewood. Militiamen held cockfights within the walls. Women dared not go near the place.
 In the Taliban era, the city was more peaceful but women were confined to their homes. The northeast end of the garden was appropriated by the mosque next door. A warlord who came over to the Taliban was rewarded with the southwest corner for a construction project. The rest, renamed the Springtime Garden, became a public dump.
 When Ms. Salik and the Ministry of Women's Affairs took over three years ago, ''We hauled 45 truckloads of trash out.''
 Now male police officers outside the tall steel gates open them only for women, or for male children if they are under 9. Inside the gates are those rarest of public employees: female police officers, two of them. They are reinforced by five female intelligence officers, whose main job is to look for suicide bombers who might hide explosives under the capaciousness of the burqa.
 Mostly the burqas come off once inside the gate, and there are dressing rooms where many of the women change into normal clothes, putting on makeup and high heels. 
 Then, unheard-of things happen here. The women themselves have raised funds for a tiny mosque, with religious instruction given by a woman -- one of only a handful of such places in a city where at least 1.5 million female Muslims live.
 A consortium of European Union aid groups built a spacious gym, and women in tights take fitness classes there or play badminton. The Italians started the Always Spring Restaurant, featuring something else unknown in Kabul, female pizza chefs.
 Between the compound's outer and inner walls, a shopping arcade of little, female-run businesses grew up, many of them financed with microgrants: hairdressing, embroidery, children's clothing, ladies lingerie. 
 There are other such businesses in Kabul, but none are run by women, to whom the busy bazaars are off limits not by law but by hard custom.
 Some come here for opportunity, many for refuge of one sort or another. Fairly often, women who have run away from abusive husbands, or from fathers who threaten to commit a so-called honor killing, wind up here, and the staff members find them a place in one of the city's secret women's shelters. 
 Arezo Ghafori, 22, has a talent for hairdressing and a family of eight for whom she is the sole breadwinner, but the men in the family refused to allow her to work, even if they starved, until she started a salon inside the garden.
 Leila Husseini, Afghanistan's 25-year-old Asian tae kwon do champion in the women's under-95-pound class, came here to train and also to lead courses for other women. 
 All of this did not happen without a fight. Ms. Salik called in the police over the mosque's encroachment, and the mullah led a noisy demonstration of male neighbors in protest. ''I used religious arguments against him,'' she said, ''and pointed out it was a sin to use stolen land for prayers.''
 They compromised on a new wall, but the mullah, Abdul Rahim, is still seething. He says that a police officer was caught inside the garden in an improper assignation with a woman, but that the incident was hushed up. 
 ''I don't care what the hell they do,'' he said. ''But inside the garden they get all dressed up and do their makeup and they have other intentions.''
 A politically well-connected former warlord named Amanullah Guzar had gained control of the Taliban warlord's old building site, and a 13-story building began rising there, overlooking their walls and, worse, providing vantage points into the gym's windows. Construction workers leered and jeered, and Ms. Salik went to court to stop the building, which she claims is actually on land belonging to the garden. 
 ''Women need to have privacy here or it does not work,'' she said. 
 Efforts to reach Mr. Guzar for comment were unsuccessful. 
 ''It is women against men,'' she said afterward, uncharacteristically discouraged. ''Our action will never succeed.'' 
 A few weeks later, she was hopeful again. She had found powerful allies who promised to intercede. In the meantime, work on the building was suspended and the aerobics classes resumed. 
 The face-lift is due to finish July 5. Every 40 days a new crew of female laborers is brought in, giving new people an opportunity to earn money and learn skills. 
 Some are jobless poor, like Zehia and Hassina, two 19-year-olds pushing wheelbarrows, who had baseball caps on over their headscarves and black veils across their faces -- more out of shame than modesty. 
 ''We are like men here,'' Zehia said. ''It is an embarrassment for educated girls like us to work like this.'' 
 Both are English-speaking high school graduates who have rejected all offers of marriage, hoping to get into a university. 
 ''What would I do with a husband, especially an uneducated husband?'' Zehia asked. ''A job is much better.''
 In a broad sense, the success of the Kabul Women's Garden is an admission of failure. Women simply cannot go to other parks in Kabul unless chaperoned by male relatives, and often not even then; most parks, like most public spaces, are overwhelmingly male.
 ''You can't change people's ideas overnight,'' Ms. Salik said. ''So we need to address the immediate needs.''
 Ms. Salik has other projects in mind for the Kabul Women's Garden. 
 There is an unused parking lot beside the garden where women could learn how to drive, something almost unheard of here -- not because it is illegal, just because it is not done. 
 Most of all, Ms. Salik would like to see a program that would take women on brief trips to other countries, perhaps for job training, but really, she said, just to see how women live in lands where there are no women's gardens.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Afghan women attended a job skills class at the Kabul Women's Garden. The garden is now in the midst of a $500,000 face-lift due to finish July 5. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4)
 A tae kwon do class at the Kabul Women's Garden. A tae kwon do champion went there to train and also to lead courses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPH BANGERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); TALIBAN (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LABOR FORCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



569 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: An Interview With Fred Wilson

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
Fred Wilson, a New York City partner in the venture capital firm Union Square Ventures, struck gold in the late 1990s, when he helped in the multibillion-dollar sale of Geocities to Yahoo. Since then, Mr. Wilson's firm has invested in a number of big-name Web brands including MeetUp, Twitter, Foursquare, Zynga, Outside.in and Etsy. Below is in an edited version of a one-on-one conversation with Mr. Wilson:
 Nick Bilton: How long have you been in the venture capital business?Fred Wilson: I started in 1986, when I was 25 years old.
 Is that when you made your first investment?No, I didn't get to make an investment until 1991, five years later. The venture business is a bit of an apprenticeship business so the firm I worked for didn't let me make an investment until I was 30. That was probably a very smart thing. 
 What did you do for the first five years?When I showed up at this firm, it was a sleepy old firm, and they still didn't use computers. The only technology in the office was a fax machine. I helped get PCs and a network set up. I also assisted with investments.
 So what was your first investment in 1991?My first investment was a company called Software Developers Company. We put about $5 million into the company, and it wasn't a good investment. But my second investment was much more successful.
 After a successful investment, did you think, 'Hey, I'm pretty good at this?'I didn't think I was a good investor for several years until I had to navigate my way out of the software bubble that burst around 2001. When I came out of that experience in 2003, I really felt like I'd figured the business out. 
 You agree that you were too young to invest at 25 years old, yet you invest in companies that are run by very young entrepreneurs?It's two different things. One of the great things about young entrepreneurs is that they don't know that something can't be done. So they try something that's so audacious and usually end up pulling it off. But I don't think that audacity is great when it comes to investing.
 When the bubble burst, did you think the computer-related venture world was done?No, I didn't think that. I had seen a couple of other bubbles burst before. The PC hardware bubble, the software bubble and the biotech bubbles all burst in the mid-80s and 90s. By 2001, due to the investment hypes, the bubble had to happen to as the market had to correct itself.
 Are we heading into a mobile bubble next? Not yet. I don't think we're getting to see a mobile bubble thus far because I don't see really stupid things happening, yet. Apple and Google can absorb overpayments in the mobile market, like their acquisitions of Quattro and AdMob, but we haven't seen major risky mobile investments, yet.
 You stress ''yet.''Yes. Yet. I think we'll see it happen. That's the beautiful thing about working in the financial markets; eventually, stupid stuff happens.
 Your first big sale was Geocities right?Yes. Back in late 1999.
 And that sold for $3.5 billion. Were you instantly rich?Before the sale, we were completely broke. We had to move out of New York City because we just couldn't afford to live in the city. We had three kids, and I was barely scraping by to pay the mortgage.
 So you were essentially broke?Yes, completely. Right before the Geocities sale went through, my wife went to the cash machine to buy groceries for the week and there wasn't any money in our bank account. I told her to put groceries on the credit card because I knew we were going to sell Geocities the following week. But before that happened, we were living hand to mouth.
 How did you end up as an investor in New York City?I fell in love and followed my wife here. I studied engineering and software development at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and when I arrived in New York there were no software jobs. I quickly realized that New York was a finance town and so I decided to go to business school and get a finance degree. I thought if I paired engineering, software and finance, that would make me an interesting package.
 Did you envision the Web world taking off in the way it has?I think that we have been surprised by the pace of change. When we started Union Square Ventures in 2003, we didn't envision the industry would be as big as it is today. Between mobile, social, location and other Web properties, these businesses have become huge staples in people's everyday lives.
 Are location-based companies like Foursquare the new era of computing? Foursquare has done two things that are highly important. First, they've given the gift of an explicit ''check-in'' to the Web. The gift Twitter gave the Web was the status update. The second thing Foursquare, and other location companies like Gowalla, offer is that it was built from the ground up as a location tool. This is important because privacy is a big deal. People do care about where that check-in information is being shared and want to keep it private. Social networks that are built specifically around location are cultivated by its users accordingly.
 What do you do when two of your investments do overlap?Generally speaking, we don't want to put our interests front and center in our portfolio companies. We also try very hard not to invest in competing companies.
 When do you decide to sell a company and when do you decide to make it a business?The businesses that become profitable are largely influenced by the entrepreneurs, and we are largely along for the ride with their decision. But, when companies are not sustainable, we have a lot to say. We don't necessarily put a gun to their heads, but it's not that far from it.
 When you invest, what's more important - the company or the entrepreneur?I don't think they are mutually exclusive. It's like the painter and the painting. Take Tumblr.com for example. We looked at Tumblr before we met David Karp, the founder. When we met him it made the entire company make sense. When we see the right combination of the person and the product, that's something we really want to invest it.
 You have a pretty successful blog right?Yes. It's at AVC.com. I write a blog post every single day.
 How did you start blogging?I was at a cocktail party at Nick Denton's house several years ago and the founders of Moveable Type were at the party. They convinced me to blog, so I went home, set up a blog and started blogging.
 Why is the blog called AVC?I sat there that morning and thought, hmmm, what am I? And I thought, I'm a venture capitalist; I'm A VC.
 Has the blog helped your investing?Absolutely. I'm not sure I could be a VC without the blog. You have to be out there in the hearts and minds of the entrepreneurs, and that's the scarce resource with what we have as investors; it's certainly not the money.
 How do you consume your news?We get the print New York Times delivered to our house, but I also read when and where the stories come to me. I could get some news via a text message on my BlackBerry, or through a tweet on my Google phone, or even the print paper.
 So you use Android and not the iPhone?Yes. It's a political statement.
 In what respect?I just don't like some of the decisions that Apple has made. I'm not making a big stink about it. I get the whole thing with Flash, but it angers me when I go to a Web page with a Flash video and I can't watch it. Plus the whole porn thing. I'm a free speech bigot. I don't like censorship; I just don't think it's a good thing.
 Speaking of porn, did you try to invest in Chatroulette?I haven't seen or spoken to Andrey [the founder] since the day he showed up in the country. We met with him; he didn't really know what he wanted to do with Chatroulette. I was eager to meet him, but after meeting him I didn't get the impression that he knew what to do with it.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



570 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles's Wagnerian-Size Dose of Pride

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The high chord that opens ''Gotterdammerung'' keened out, and the stage burst into light, revealing three Norns looking like Teletubbies in their bulbous costumes. As they sang of the one-eyed Wotan, eyeballs floated into view. Rings and fragmenting lines (Wotan's broken spear?) appeared on a scrim, and spectral figures representing time's passage floated across the stage.
 The Los Angeles Opera is mounting its first ''Ring'' cycle, a fascinating and complex production of Richard Wagner's ''Ring des Nibelungen'' by the German artist and director Achim Freyer, who has soaked the stage with symbols in a visual version of the work's leitmotifs. The third of three cycles, being performed here at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, ends on Saturday. 
 The production's backers have a symbol of their own, Mount Everest, as in: We have climbed it and can now take our place in the cultural world. Los Angeles has had an opera company for only 24 years and putting on a ''Ring'' is taken as a rite of passage into adulthood. The milestone, in a larger sense, is part of the city's musical march forward, coming on the heels of the revitalization of the Los Angeles Philharmonic with the construction of the Walt Disney Concert Hall and the hiring of Gustavo Dudamel, a highly touted young maestro, as its music director.
 ''I don't think anybody will call us 'regional' anymore,'' said the opera's chairman and chief executive, Marc I. Stern. ''Doing a 'Ring' was necessary to get there.'' And the company did it with a Wagnerian-size dose of urban pride, mounting a 10-week festival of all things ''Ring'' that, by the organizers' count, included 120 organizations. 
 Events included a hip-hop concert based on ''Ring'' themes called ''Gangsta Wagner,'' a country-and-western parody, exhibits at the city's major museums, a vivid planetarium show to ''Ring'' music at the Griffith Observatory, concerts, symposiums, lectures and conferences. Barry A. Sanders, a board member who helped organize the city's 1984 Olympics art festival and who oversaw the ''Ring'' Festival, said the events served to give ''Ring''-goers something to do on down time, helped unite the city's cultural institutions and showed that opera could be accessible to the wider public.
 That is the civic version of ''Ring'' pride. 
 A musical logic also exists for putting on this musical monument. The ''Ring'' stretches the capacities of a company, especially the orchestra. ''We're going to be capable of doing things that we're not capable of today,'' said James Conlon, the opera's music director and the conductor of all ''Ring'' performances. ''It is stunning,'' he said, ''that a city the size of Los Angeles and the importance of Los Angeles could have gotten to 2009-10 without ever having a production of the 'Ring.' '' Only four members of the opera orchestra had played any of the music from the ''Ring.''
 Mr. Conlon emerged as a well-liked and major public figure during the individual opera performances over the last two seasons, which culminated in the final cycles. He appeared at 16 festival events, gave talks before every performance and usually showed up at a local watering hole afterward, going behind the bar and serving drinks to the mingled orchestra members, theater personnel, singers and other music-world types. 
 Not unexpectedly for such a large and complicated endeavor, the Los Angeles ''Ring'' has been dogged by concerns about costs and by complaints about Mr. Freyer's high-concept production.
 The festival also created a minitempest over worries that too much attention was being given to Wagner, a noted anti-Semite: a debate that perhaps reflects Los Angeles's newcomer status as a ''Ring'' town. A handful of bloggers, opinion writers and at least one politician, a Los Angeles County supervisor, Michael D. Antonovich, denounced the focus on Wagner. Mr. Antonovich worried that ''we were glorifying an anti-Semite whose music was a de facto theme song for the Holocaust,'' said Tony Bell, his spokesman, in an interview. 
 The festival included several high-profile symposiums and conferences on Wagner's virulent views, and Los Angeles Opera Company officials, including Mr. Conlon, who champions composers suppressed or killed by the Nazis, made forceful arguments for why the man should be separated from the music. ''Our intention here is not to exalt Wagner,'' Mr. Sanders, the festival organizer, said. ''No one can say we did.''
 Despite the public trumpeting, the ''Ring'' turned out a less-than-stellar performance at the box office. Its ticket sales have been running at about 80 percent of capacity, causing a $1.5 million shortfall in expected box-office revenue. Ticket prices were reduced, and the company began allowing purchases of tickets for individual operas (instead of the whole package) five weeks before the first cycle opened, on May 29. 
 The opera company officials blamed the economy. About 35 percent to 40 percent of ticket sales were expected to come from European '' 'Ring' nuts'' -- one of the epithets for the worldwide community of fans who fling themselves from ''Ring'' to ''Ring'' -- but that percentage fell to 25 percent, said Stephen D. Rountree, the company's chief operating officer. ''The global recession has clearly impacted group sales coming from Europe and Asia,'' he added.
 Other factors may have come into play. The cycles have been running over nine days, several days longer than usual, which adds to the cost for out-of-town visitors. The pacing was designed to give the singers adequate rest for their punishing roles. Placido Domingo, the company's general director, who also sang Siegmund in ''Die Walkure,'' acknowledged in an interview that it might have been better to have two more tightly spaced cycles, with rest in between, rather than the three. 
 Some Wagnerites were put off by reports about Mr. Freyer's staging, rooted in Brecht's theater of alienation and rife with light sabers, LED lighting strips, garish costumes, masks, a huge puppet head worn by Alberich straight out of an Otto Dix Expressionist painting and whimsical touches, like turning Siegfried's magic helmet into a golden top hat.
 ''Apparently it's pretty god-awful,'' said Kit Gill, the vice president of the Wagner Society of New York. ''I'm not such a traditionalist, but I don't like wacko things either.'' 
 Critics were divided, but audiences in the hall showed enthusiasm, Mr. Domingo noted. ''They react just like the game of the Lakers,'' he said of celebrations of the team's N.B.A. championship victory. (Except for the near-rioting part, that is.)
 He acknowledged the divided reaction. ''Some people like him,'' he said of Mr. Freyer. ''Some people might not.''
 ''This happens very often with the 'Ring,' '' he added, especially at a time when few traditional productions are being mounted. ''This is difficult for everybody to understand.'' 
 Several principal singers harshly criticized the production in an interview with The Los Angeles Times. The ensuing controversy prompted a contrite letter to the board and some ill will among the production staff. The comments were ''unwise,'' said Christopher Koelsch, vice president for artistic planning. ''Things got a little tense,'' he added, ''then they got better.''
 Money problems long preceded the issue of ticket revenues. Spending for the ''Ring'' contributed to a deep financial hole at the company, which was forced to take a $14 million loan from the county in the form of a bond issue. The original cost of $40 million was brought down to $32 million. Another $1 million was sliced off when four individual performances were cut before the ''Ring'' operas were performed as a cycle. The financial difficulties forced the company to reduce overall productions next year to six, from the usual eight or nine. Negotiations to bring in opera companies from Mannheim and Seville as co-producers fell through, Mr. Domingo said, cutting off a source of funds.
 The $31 million includes performing costs. With 36 shows, the average performance cost is $860,000, more than double the cost of a typical inexpensive production, company officials said. The problem, they said, lay in unexpected initial outlays of money, compounded by the recession. 
 The heavy costs came from the many hours of extra rehearsal needed for the ensemble; expensive projection systems, which will remain in the house; up to 16 extra performers, doubling the singers' roles; and a huge turntable, half of which can flip upward, on the steeply raked stage, which required training for singers to deal with it. Special costumes had to be made for rehearsals. Mr. Freyer spent $25,000 just on a mock-up of Brunnhilde's horse, Grane, which was never used. The sets and costumes, many hand-painted by Mr. Freyer, amounted to $7.3 million. 
 Mr. Freyer expressed sharp disappointment that not enough money was available to film the production. ''It is out forever,'' he said. 
 Mr. Domingo did not argue. ''I agree with Achim that it is very sad,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beau Gibson as Froh in Wagner's ''Rheingold'' in Los Angeles. (C1)
Cast members of the Los Angeles Opera's production of ''Das Rheingold,'' part of the company's ''Ring'' Festival.
 Left, Achim Freyer, director and designer of the Los Angeles Opera's ''Ring'' production. Above, Arnold Bezuyen, as Loge in ''Das Rheingold.'' Right, Barry A. Sanders, opera company board member, at a ''Ring'' exhibition. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RAP MUSIC (70%); MOUNTAINS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); CITY LIFE (65%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (60%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MOUNT EVEREST (71%); HIMALAYAS (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



571 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Allstate Adds Villain, With Car Insurance as the Hero

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE executives at Allstate, known, after their familiar slogan, as ''the 'good hands' people,'' are adding a bad cop to their car advertising good cop.
 The actor Dean Winters, who plays dark characters in series like ''Oz,'' ''Rescue Me'' and ''30 Rock,'' will appear in an Allstate campaign as Mayhem, personifying the pitfalls, like collisions and storm damage, that can befall drivers. Teaser commercials that began on Friday are intended to pique curiosity for the campaign, which is likely to start in early July.
 Another Allstate pitchman, the actor Dennis Haysbert, has appeared in the insurer's ads since 2003. Mr. Winters is on camera in the teaser commercials without Mr. Haysbert, but in a rough version of a spot that is part of the campaign, Mr. Haysbert is not seen; his voice is heard at the end.
 Allstate executives insist that Mr. Winters is not supplanting Mr. Haysbert, who, they say, is a ''strong asset'' for the company and will continue as its primary spokesman, appearing in new ads later in the summer. The same agency that creates the Haysbert ads -- Leo Burnett in Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe -- is creating the Winters ads. 
 The Mayhem campaign is meant to open a second front for Allstate in the insurance wars, say executives from Burnett and Allstate, to compete more effectively with price-oriented rivals like Geico.
 ''The intense focus on price played well during the recession,'' said Mark LaNeve, who joined the Allstate Corporation in Northbrook, Ill., as chief marketing officer in October. ''But we're sensing a return to value along the lines of 'The company you do business with matters; you get what you pay for.' ''
 Other marketers say they see similar shifts in consumer attitudes.
 ''For many people, value isn't just based on absolute price,'' said Brad Casper, president and chief executive at the Henkel Consumer Goods division of the Henkel Corporation, whose products include home care and personal care. ''Low price isn't necessarily a good value if quality and performance are not where their expectations were.''
 Mr. Haysbert appears in some ads that challenge Allstate's competitors, but is better known for uplifting image ads carrying themes like ''That's our stand.'' For instance, Mr. Haysbert closed commercials during the Winter Olympics that invoked the 1933 inaugural address of Roosevelt by declaring, ''Uncertainty will not rule our lives when we put our lives in good hands.''
 The Mayhem campaign will be ''disruptive,'' Mr. LaNeve said. ''You need to experiment with new things.''
 The new character ''tested unbelievably well across numerous targets,'' he added, ''including a young target.''
 Allstate joins a long list of insurers running more than one campaign at a time to stand out amid the clutter. For example, State Farm recently introduced a second campaign, featuring the actor Eddie Matos, which takes a feistier approach on the price front than its commercials carrying the theme ''Like a good neighbor, State Farm is there.''
 Geico is running a half-dozen campaigns at once, including commercials with geckos, cavemen, a ''googly eyes'' character and celebrities like Charlie Daniels. 
 ''There are different mechanisms for different messaging,'' Mr. LaNeve said, and using Mr. Haysbert's voice at the end of the Mayhem commercials ''will help brand the ads as Allstate.''
 The Mayhem campaign is part of efforts by Mr. LaNeve, who joined Allstate from General Motors, to reposition the company as selling not just insurance but also protection. That is underlined by what Mr. Haysbert says at the end of the rough commercial: ''Dollar for dollar, nobody protects you from mayhem like Allstate.''
 Mayhem is a throwback to a kind of ad character that was once hugely popular: the bad guy who causes problems that the product being advertised solves.
 General Foods had a nefarious character, Mr. Coffee Nerves, in ads for its Postum grain beverage, who stood for the difficulties caused by the caffeine in coffee. Other examples include the Noid in ads for Domino's Pizza, who symbolized how problematic it was to order from other chains, and the Spotmaker, who wreaked havoc inside dishwashers until banished by Calgonite.
 ''I'm the key against your side door,'' Mr. Winters, as Mayhem, says in a teaser commercial. ''I'm a wild deer.'' On screen these words appear: ''Mayhem is coming. Are you in good hands?''
 In a second teaser, Mayhem says, ''I'm the puppy that ate your back seat'' and then spits out a piece of foam. In a third teaser, in which Mayhem drives a pink sport utility vehicle, he declares, ''I'm a typical teenage girl,'' then looks down at a mobile device, crashes into a car, tosses the device and drives off.
 ''A good villain is a lovely thing,'' said Jeanie Caggiano, executive vice president and executive creative director at Burnett. ''Mayhem is a great way to take a shot at the competition, which you can't really do if you're Dennis.''
 The idea is that if ''Dennis represents Allstate and everything that is protection, Mayhem is the opposite, uncertainty,'' she added. ''This guy's trouble with a charming smile, and represents everything Allstate protects you from.''
 ''With Mayhem, we're striking back and saying: 'Wait a minute, depending on what kind of mayhem you encounter, you may find yourself cheaped out from the coverage you might need' '' without Allstate, Ms. Caggiano said. ''You might pay a couple dollars more, but you also will get better coverage.''
 The Mayhem campaign could cause, well, mayhem for Allstate if consumers perceive that the popular Mr. Haysbert is being shown the door. In an article about Mr. Winters in The New York Post on Friday, the Mayhem campaign was described as ''replacing ads that featured Dennis Haysbert.''
 Mr. LaNeve said, ''We're not dropping'' Mr. Haysbert, adding, ''We'll continue to run some current Dennis work and do some new work with Dennis on the dollar-for-dollar value positioning.'' 
 Ms. Caggiano said: ''Good advertising invites you into the brand. Dennis does it one way, Mayhem does it another.''
 As the Mayhem campaign gets under way, Mr. LaNeve said, Allstate plans to ''substantially'' increase ad spending for the rest of the year. Its ad spending in the first quarter totaled $85.9 million, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, up 23.7 percent from the $69.4 million spent in the same period a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a new advertising campaign from Allstate, the actor Dean Winters portrays a character named Mayhem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INSURANCE (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); OLYMPICS (64%); WINTER SPORTS (64%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (94%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); HENKEL CORP (63%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (58%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (94%); PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



572 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Talented Students Are Sought Worldwide for N.Y.U.'s Mideast Campus

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Laith Aqel, co-valedictorian of his high school graduating class in Wayne, N.J., and juggler of too many activities to list, says he always envisioned himself on a classic New England campus with ''Gothic architecture and big grass lawns.'' He weighed offers from Tufts University, Boston College's honors program and New York University.
 But when he leaves for college this fall, he will travel 6,900 miles to Abu Dhabi in the Persian Gulf. That is where N.Y.U. will open a campus in September with an inaugural freshman class of 150 students from 39 countries, a far cry from Mr. Aqel's old ideal.
 ''N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi came and messed that all up,'' he said. ''I think they're trying to create a new paradigm, which I never factored into my education.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Aqel, whose parents immigrated from Jordan when he was a baby, is part of a high-stakes experiment in higher education -- what experts are calling perhaps the first truly international university, with top students and faculty from around the globe.
 American colleges have long had branch campuses and international programs in which students spend a semester or two abroad. But after years of planning, John Sexton, N.Y.U.'s president, is about to open the doors on a more ambitious project: a four-year liberal arts research university in Abu Dhabi that will eventually have 2,000 undergraduates and share an island alongside future outposts of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums. It will be a full-fledged sister school of N.Y.U. and issue its own diplomas.
 The new institution drew more than 9,000 applicants and has accepted fewer than 200. They are an elite group. The Abu Dhabi students have an average SAT verbal score of 715 and an average math score of 730, on par with Ivy League universities. Nearly 90 percent are bilingual.
 Several other American colleges trying to establish programs in the Persian Gulf in recent years have struggled to attract both students and financing. But N.Y.U. officials, encouraged by their recruiting success, say they are talking with the Chinese government about opening a Shanghai campus modeled on its Middle Eastern project.
 Others have taken notice. ''We have lots of American universities engaged in various kinds of international activities,'' said Robert M. Berdahl, president of the Association of American Universities, a group of leading research institutions. ''But the N.Y.U. model reflects a very different and thoughtful approach to what John Sexton and others perceive as the increasing globalization of higher education and the disappearance of traditional boundaries.''
 Backed by the open checkbook of the Abu Dhabi government, the wealthiest of the seven United Arab Emirates, N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi scoured the planet for candidates. It called on the Institute of International Education, which administers the Fulbright scholarships, to help it identify 900 of the world's top high schools, and then pressed the schools for their best students.
 Though based in Abu Dhabi, students will be encouraged to spend time at some of N.Y.U.'s 16 other sites, on five continents -- more traditional study-abroad centers with short-term or narrowly focused programs. In a promotional booklet, the university sketched out a hypothetical plan for film and media majors, with sojourns in Berlin, Buenos Aires, Prague and New York.
 The project carries risks. While Abu Dhabi is a relatively modern, multicultural Muslim state, homosexual acts are illegal and the Internet is censored. And there is no guarantee that the seemingly limitless resources of its oil-rich government will remain so, given the precarious global economy and Middle East politics.
 But the Abu Dhabi government has agreed to pay for the entire N.Y.U. project, though neither it nor the university has detailed a price. And the emirate has embraced N.Y.U.'s vision of a liberal arts institution with full access to ideas, books and the Internet.
 ''They believe that Abu Dhabi can become, and will become, one of the idea capitals of the world -- a world city,'' said Alfred H. Bloom, vice chancellor of N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi and former president of Swarthmore whom Mr. Sexton recruited.
 Some in the new freshman class, including Mr. Aqel, have already used Facebook to discuss a possible civil rights club. ''In a way, it's almost a challenge because we can't hold protests,'' Mr. Aqel said. ''But I think we'll be able to find creative ways to circumvent restrictions while maintaining respect for our host country.''
 He said he was persuaded to make Abu Dhabi his first choice after visiting in February. ''I've never seen professors so excited to teach their students as well as learn from them,'' he said. ''The greatest appeal is the student body itself. There's never been a more diverse group assembled.''
 Much is still in planning. The island campus is not scheduled to open until 2014; until then, the university will use a temporary site in downtown Abu Dhabi. Though the university will eventually add a graduate program, it has not announced which subjects it will offer.
 But spending is well under way. After identifying the world's top high schools, N.Y.U. administrators held events in more than a dozen locations, including Shanghai, Buenos Aires, Johannesburg, Vienna and Sydney, Australia. They flew in guidance counselors and principals, pitching to them the concept of a global university with a student-faculty ratio of 8 to 1. Each school was asked to nominate two students to apply.
 Last fall, after narrowing the applications to about 275, the university began bringing groups of 50 to Abu Dhabi for long weekends, taking them to a mosque, the desert and the Emirates Palace Hotel for a resplendent dinner. For N.Y.U., it was a chance to winnow the pool. Professors gave sample classes and provided feedback to admissions officers on how students performed in group discussions.
 ''The weekends were profoundly moving, and for the students, I think, formative experiences,'' said Dr. Bloom, who, along with Mr. Sexton, went on every admissions trip.
 He recalled one group that had visited the desert, enjoying camel rides and the sunset. On the bus back to the hotel, the candidates decided to translate the song ''I Like to Move It,'' featured in the DreamWorks movie ''Madagascar,'' into the 18 languages spoken by the group.
 ''That's a great metaphor for what I see happening,'' Dr. Bloom said.
 While valuing academic prowess, N.Y.U. says it also looked for students who seemed intent on improving society. So those who had conducted medical research or promoted social justice had an edge.
 ''One of the features of the student body is raw intellectual potency,'' said Mr. Sexton, who plans to teach a course on religion and government in the fall. ''But what's especially unusual is that there's no real national center of gravity to the class. People who care about ideas care about testing the premises of their vantage points, and there's no better way to test those than to put oneself in a rigorous, civil conversation.''
 Although the students come from 39 countries, with 43 languages, about a third are from the United States. The next four biggest sources are the United Arab Emirates, China, Hungary and Russia. Along with some 50 professors, the students will live downtown in a new high-rise with art and music rooms, a fitness center and a dining hall.
 Mate Bede-Fazekas, a Hungarian student who recently won a national piano competition and hopes to be a filmmaker, said he did not hesitate when his high school nominated him. ''I can't imagine a better place for becoming a global citizen, that I believe is the way of the future,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''For a guy like me from Hungary, it is quite unreal.''
 Another student, Erin Meekhof of Woodbridge, Va., applied for an early decision. She is interested in international relations and, during her trip to Abu Dhabi last fall, was captivated not only by her fellow candidates but also by the city's skyline.
 ''There are minarets and all the different mosques and then in the distance you have skyscrapers,'' Ms. Meekhof said. ''It was incredibly beautiful.''
 As for the distance from her parents, Ms. Meekhof does not seem concerned. ''If I went to a college in Virginia, I'd still be calling and Skype-ing and e-mailing, and they wouldn't be seeing me that often either,'' she said. ''This will just be a little farther.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about a new branch of New York University in Abu Dhabi, where a group of candidates for admission translated a song from the film ''Madagascar'' into the 18 languages spoken by its members, misidentified the studio that made the movie. It is DreamWorks, not Disney.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New York University's school in Abu Dhabi will be downtown until 2014, when an island campus is expected to be completed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN CALLIHAN/N.Y.U. ABU DHABI)
Left, Alfred Bloom, vice chancellor of N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi. Right, Erin Meekhof, an incoming freshman, at her parent's house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); IMMIGRATION (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); GULF STATES (88%); CHINA (79%); JORDAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010



573 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Ink Gushes in Japan's Media Landscape

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- For years, the online newspaper JanJan News mounted a scrappy challenge to Japan's blandly conformist press, offering articles written by readers who took on taboo subjects like whaling and the media's collusion with the government. But the site never attracted enough readers or advertising and was finally forced to shut down most of its operations three months ago. 
 JanJan was the last of four online newspapers offering reader-generated articles that were started with great fanfare here, but they have all closed or had to scale back their operations in the past two years. 
 And it is not just the so-called citizen journalism sites that have failed here. No online journalism of any kind has yet posed a significant challenge to Japan's monolithic but sclerotic news media.
 ''Japan just wasn't ready yet,'' said JanJan's president and founder, Ken Takeuchi, a former reformist mayor and newspaper journalist who started the site in 2003. ''This is a hard place to create an alternative source of news.''
 While Japan's long economic stagnation has prompted a slow dismantling of the nation's postwar order, punctuated by a historic change of government last year, one pillar of that order, the news media, has so far been left relatively untouched. The new government has taken the initial steps to open up some of the exclusive press clubs that dominate coverage at Tokyo's powerful central ministries, but it has yet to follow through with more sweeping changes.
 For a variety of reasons, cultural as well as economic, the digital revolution has yet to wreak the same havoc on the news media here that it has in the United States and most other advanced countries. The media landscape is still dominated by the same handful of behemoths that have held sway for decades, like the Yomiuri Shimbun, the world's largest newspaper, with daily circulation of more than 10 million.
 Personal blogs thrive in Japan, as do shopping sites and chat rooms appealing to groups from pet lovers to angry nationalists. But sites dedicated to news have found only a small foothold, and most of those are run by major news organizations, which often treat them as sideshows.
 Most glaringly, there have been few of the alternative news blogs and news sites that have appeared in other countries, like The Huffington Post in the United States. The handful of sites that have drawn attention, like J-Cast News and The Journal, have failed to garner large numbers of readers. 
 Citizen journalism sites have earned the most attention here, largely for taking the lead in challenging media taboos and criticizing Japan's press clubs. But they are far from prosperous. Before JanJan, a well-financed startup from South Korea, OhmyNews Japan, shut down two years ago and Tsukasa Net closed last November. Another, PJ News, has shrunk to a single editor who does not even have an office.
 Mr. Takeuchi and others in the online media point to a number of reasons the sites have failed, beginning with advertising revenues that are too low to support even a skeleton newsroom staff.
 But it also appears that Japan, with its cultural disdain for those who stick out from the crowd, may be inhospitable terrain for the reader-turned-reporter model, Mr. Takeuchi said.
 Consider the contrast with neighboring South Korea. OhmyNews revolutionized the South Korean news media with reader-generated stories that challenged the big conservative newspapers, and in 2002 it helped elect a liberal president, Roh Moo-hyun. The site has become a powerful media player, with 62,700 readers-turned-reporters and two million page views a day, in a population a third the size of Japan's 127 million. 
 But when OhmyNews took its winning formula to Japan, it flopped. Advertising revenues never materialized, the site drew a meager 400,000 page views a day and just 4,800 readers signed up to write stories, said the site's former editor, Masahiko Motoki. 
 Mr. Motoki and others say that another reason for Japan's resistance to alternative sites is the relative absence of social and political divisions. In politically polarized South Korea, OhmyNews thrived by appealing to young, liberal readers. 
 ''It is only when the society sees itself as having conflicting interests that it will seek out new viewpoints and information,'' said Toshinao Sasaki, the author of about two dozen books on the Internet in Japan.
 Media experts say Japan has yet to see such critical questioning of its establishment press. They say most Japanese remain at least passively accepting of the nation's big newspapers and television networks. 
 Still, there have been growing signs that Japan's news industry may be primed for change. The biggest has been a slow but steady decline in newspaper readership, particularly among younger Japanese. 
 Circulation of The Asahi Shimbun, for example, Japan's and the world's second largest daily, has fallen by 3 percent over the past decade to just over eight million. 
 When he started JanJan seven years ago, Mr. Takeuchi, 69, said he hoped to stir up Japan's mainstream press and its uncritical coverage of the government. 
 JanJan, short for Japan Alternative News for Justice and New Culture, quickly drew praise for its critical stories on research whaling and other topics considered off limits by Japan's mainstream news organizations. However, the site barely earned enough to pay for its operations. The death blow came from the global recession, as advertising revenues fell, Mr. Takeuchi said. He reopened the site in May as a much more limited blog.
 Mr. Takeuchi said one of his biggest challenges was maintaining the quality of the site's news content. Most of the articles submitted by readers tended to be rehashed versions of news stories from major media outlets, with the readers' opinions added. 
 He also had difficulty hiring experienced journalists because most were reluctant to leave a big company for an unknown startup. Media experts said this might change, especially if big news companies begin to resort to layoffs or go bankrupt as they have in the United States.
 ''JanJan failed, but there will be others who try to do the same thing,'' said Shin Mizukoshi, a professor of information studies at the University of Tokyo. ''JanJan has planted the seed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (89%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); WRITERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



574 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: In Cleanup, It's Local Help Wanted, Workers Find

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
Hundreds of workers hired by BP subcontractors to help with the cleanup of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico are complaining that they traveled long distances to assist in the effort -- only to be told that their jobs had been given to local residents. 
 Workers from California, Mississippi and Texas say they signed contracts with the subcontractors under a belief that they would be spending weeks or months laying protective boom and scrubbing oil off the gulf shores. 
 But after less than a week of work, they say, the subcontractors informed them that BP and state officials preferred that their jobs be performed by coastal residents. Their contracts did not guarantee a certain length of employment, so the workers have been left fuming, with little legal recourse.
 ''Cleaning the oil properly has become secondary to employing people from the right state,'' said Glenn Welstad, the chief executive of Command Center, a staffing company that recruited and trained workers from as far away as California. ''If they wanted to charge full steam ahead with the cleanup, they would let the most experienced workers have the jobs.''
 As many as 25,000 workers have been hired by more than 100 subcontractors to perform tasks like removing tar balls, skimming oil off the water's surface and laying stretches of inflatable boom, BP said. 
 The company said its subcontractors do give priority to Gulf Coast residents, many of whom were put out of business by the spill. But the company said it wanted to avoid inconveniencing out-of-state workers.
 In the first weeks after the spill, subcontractors scrambled to hire workers with proper training and experience, said Marti Powers, a BP spokeswoman. ''As we've been able to find locals with the same skill set, we've made a shift to local workers,'' she said.
 In Florida, 86 percent of cleanup workers are now Floridians; in Alabama, 82 percent are from that state; and in Mississippi, 83 percent of the cleanup work force are residents. Those figures have nearly doubled in the last month, BP records show.
 Governors of the four affected states -- Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida -- have made it clear in public speeches and private meetings with BP officials that they want residents hired first. 
 ''You hate to take away anyone's livelihood,'' said Dan Turner, a spokesman for Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi. ''But the locals here have already had their livelihood taken away, through no fault of their own.''
 Subcontractors say they must follow the desires of BP and the governors if they hope to keep their contracts. 
 ''If you're in Florida, they want Florida residents. If you're in Alabama, they want Alabama residents. If you're in Mississippi, they want Mississippi residents,'' said George Hutchinson, who runs a staffing company, Cabildo, in New Orleans. ''You have to give them what they want.''
 But many out-of-state workers say they have been misled by BP's subcontractors. They say they were told to expected steady, well-paid work, but then were replaced by locals almost immediately.
 Last Monday, a crew of 202 workers from Mississippi traveled by bus to Pensacola, Fla. They had undergone 40 hours of hazardous materials training. But by Wednesday, they were told by a subcontractor, Cliff Berry Inc., that the State of Florida wanted to replace them with Floridians.
 ''That was the mandate: Florida workers,'' said Larry Doyle, the executive vice president of Cliff Berry, who apologized to the Mississippi crew but said a subcontractor employing Cliff Berry insisted on hiring locally.
 ''It was crazy,'' said Steven Gilbert, 49, a seafood truck driver from Pass Christian, Miss. He pointed out that he belonged to the exact demographic that BP has vowed to help: gulf residents put out of work by the spill. 
 ''They took hundreds of people who were ready to work and sent them home, just because they're from another state,'' Mr. Gilbert said.
 Tishonya A. Hamilton, 39, had a similar experience. She rode from Houston to Mobile, Ala., last month with the belief that she would work for six months for a subcontractor, One Stop Safety and Rental. But after three days, she and 100 other workers were sent home and replaced with Alabama residents.
 ''We thought we were going down there to make good money and help clean up the beaches,'' said Ms. Hamilton, an unemployed construction worker. ''We were lied to.'' One Stop Safety and Rental did not respond to requests for comment but told the local news media that the governors of Alabama and Mississippi had insisted that the jobs go to local workers.
 Legal experts say states are allowed to give preference to residents, as long as it is not on a basis of race, gender or religion.
 ''If they're limiting the workers to those who were affected by the spill, that's a good thing,'' said Joel Friedman, a labor law expert at Tulane Law School in New Orleans. ''It's a political issue, but it's not a legal one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



575 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: More Service Cuts Face Subway and Bus Riders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is preparing additional service changes for the fall and winter, including trims to rush-hour service on several popular buses and the No. 7 train, even as New Yorkers are bracing for the loss of two subway lines and dozens of bus routes in less than a week. 
 The proposed changes, which must be approved on Wednesday by the authority's board, would be far less severe than the cuts scheduled to take effect on Sunday. But they would reduce service on dozens of bus routes and increase commuting time for riders on the No. 7 line. 
 The plans, which appeared in documents on the authority's Web site over the weekend, are described by transit officials as routine adjustments to account for trends in ridership, which has sagged in the weak economy. And on some bus routes, service will actually increase. 
 But the proposals, which are projected to save $3.7 million a year, come as the authority steps up its attempts to close a $400 million budget gap. 
 With state legislators unwilling to commit more money to transportation -- and tax revenue continuing to fall short of projections -- the authority will be forced to consider more stringent cost-cutting measures as it prepares a budget to be presented in July. 
 ''This is just the beginning,'' said John H. Banks III, a member of the authority's board since 2004. ''Unless there is a dramatic change in what is anticipated from Albany and the city -- which I don't expect -- we're in for a bumpy ride, no pun intended.''
 Starting in December, the authority plans to remove four early-morning express trains from the No. 7 line, which runs between Queens and Midtown Manhattan. Express service would start at 6:20 a.m. instead of 5:30 a.m. 
 A local train would be added for riders during that time slot under the plan, and two additional local trains would run between 9 and 10 a.m. 
 The bus changes would take effect in September on 38 routes. About two-thirds of the changes are reductions. Among the routes where buses would run slightly less frequently are the M1 and M4 in Manhattan. 
 To close its budget gap, the authority has renegotiated contracts, revised obsolete work practices and announced plans to lay off thousands of transit workers throughout the system. 
 Subway riders may already be feeling the effects. A survey by the Straphangers Campaign, to be released on Monday, found that half the city's subway lines were dirtier in 2009 than the year before.
 Of 2,200 subway cars examined by the riders' group, half were deemed unclean, a category that ranged from a ''dingy floor'' to ''heavy dirt,'' ''malodorous conditions'' and ''sticky wet spots.'' 
 The M train, which is about to replace the V train in Manhattan and Queens, was found to be the system's dirtiest: only a third of its cars were determined to be clean. The C and No. 6 trains tied for the top spot as cleanest.
 Transit officials acknowledged the troubles. ''Some subway car floors may not be as clean as our customers expect or deserve,'' a spokesman for New York City Transit, Paul J. Fleuranges, said in a statement. ''We will monitor conditions and shift forces as necessary.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



576 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Centuries-Old Tradition Lies Behind Diplomas Of Today's Graduates

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
The tens of thousands of engraved cream-colored diplomas that New York high school graduates will receive this week can trace their birth to an old-fashioned source: an ink-splattered, cluttered printing workshop in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
 Over the last six weeks, they have emerged from hulking gray steel machines amid a whir of pulleys and the clatter of copper plates striking metal. The method by which they were made has not changed for decades, nor has the design; and the same family-owned company has engraved them for at least the past 21 years (that was as far back as anyone in the workshop could remember). 
 On Friday, Nerad Balwant, a veteran pressman at Royal Engraving, the printing company, started on the final batch of thousands of diplomas for June, aligning sheets of stiff card stock on a feeder under a mechanical arm. Hydraulic suction cups moved the sheets onto a roller, which then fed them over an engraved copper plate rolled in black ink.
 A press bore down on the paper, forcing black ink from the furrows of the engraving onto the page, creating the signature raised lettering and finely detailed New York City seal of the document. The diplomas were then flipped onto a conveyor belt and dried under a heater, finally falling into a small metal bin amid the din.
 The result was a formal six-by-eight-inch document with a 1950s aura, all capital letters in an authoritative serif font. Over the past 20 years, ''nothing's changed at all'' about the process, Mr. Balwant said.
 The company opened its doors in 1924 as a small wholesale engraver on Fulton Street in Manhattan, then the city's printing district. Called Tripi Engraving, it was run by Italian immigrants, who bought the current one-story brick shop on Meserole Avenue in Greenpoint in the 1980s. It later changed its name to Royal Engraving, and merged with a former competitor, Palographia, about seven years ago, said Larry Paladino, who now co-owns the firm.
 Across the 11,000-square-foot printing floor, past 17 ink-stained engraving presses dating to the 1880s, is a modern five-color offset printer, a far cheaper, easier way to print. But offset printers are a ''dime a dozen,'' Mr. Paladino said, and they do not print from engravings.
 Still, engraving diplomas the traditional way is an expensive job; the Department of Education's contract pays him just under $80,000 a year. ''I'd hate to lose it, to be honest, but there probably is some other way it could be done,'' he said.
 Using methods similar to those first developed in the 1400s, the design on the city's diplomas is etched with acid on a copper plate -- the shop sends out for that -- which then forms the basis for the pressing. Because engraving allows for perfect replicas of signatures and precise details, it lends the documents a layer of security.
 Each diploma is run two or three times through the presses, first printed with the basic information (The New York City Department of Education Diploma ...) and the engraved signature of the current chancellor, Joel I. Klein. Separate plates bear the name of each high school and the signature of its principal. The line for the student's name is left blank, as is the year, for each school to write or type in.
 Because of Mr. Klein's push in recent years to create hundreds of new small high schools, there are more plates now -- 366 this year -- and many of the high schools have long-winded, new-fangled names, requiring smaller font sizes or two lines of text in a layout designed decades ago. (The Law Government and Community Service Magnet High School, for example, looked crammed in.)
 ''In the old days, not so many kids graduated,'' said Mr. Balwant, his loose plaid shirt and baseball cap ink-free as he checked a batch for smudging. He guessed at why. ''Maybe because of the bad economy, they are staying in school to get a better job,'' he said.
 Once printed, the diplomas are sliced into size in a large cutting machine. The pressmen use sandpaper to remove any ink stained along the edges.
 Then the action moves to the cramped shipping department. On Friday, Cynthia Sotelo sat among piles of diplomas, sorting them into mailers. With graduation days away, there was a rush to finish the final few schools, like Landmark High School (250 diplomas) and the High School of Computers and Technology.
 Francis Lewis High School was the largest job this year, placing an order for 2,500 regular diplomas and 500 special-education diplomas. The school has only about 1,100 graduates, but like other schools, it ordered extras. In all, the printer will send out 120,000 diplomas this year. The Department of Education would not provide an estimate for the number of graduates this year, but last year, there were 45,000 June graduates. (One possible reason: the orders may also be used for August and January graduations.)
 Though his work will adorn living rooms or offices -- or sit in boxes -- around the city, Mr. Balwant did not look upon graduation time with great sentiment, though he was glad the job was nearly done. ''I've been doing it for many years,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diplomas are fed through a printing press, above, and sorted, at left, at Royal Engraving, a printing company in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



577 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Now and Later

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Spend now, while the economy remains depressed; save later, once it has recovered. How hard is that to understand?
 Very hard, if the current state of political debate is any indication. All around the world, politicians seem determined to do the reverse. They're eager to shortchange the economy when it needs help, even as they balk at dealing with long-run budget problems. 
 But maybe a clear explanation of the issues can change some minds. So let's talk about the long and the short of budget deficits. I'll focus on the U.S. position, but a similar story can be told for other nations. 
 At the moment, as you may have noticed, the U.S. government is running a large budget deficit. Much of this deficit, however, is the result of the ongoing economic crisis, which has depressed revenues and required extraordinary expenditures to rescue the financial system. As the crisis abates, things will improve. The Congressional Budget Office, in its analysis of President Obama's budget proposals, predicts that economic recovery will reduce the annual budget deficit from about 10 percent of G.D.P. this year to about 4 percent of G.D.P. in 2014.
 Unfortunately, that's not enough. Even if the government's annual borrowing were to stabilize at 4 percent of G.D.P., its total debt would continue to grow faster than its revenues. Furthermore, the budget office predicts that after bottoming out in 2014, the deficit will start rising again, largely because of rising health care costs.
 So America has a long-run budget problem. Dealing with this problem will require, first and foremost, a real effort to bring health costs under control -- without that, nothing will work. It will also require finding additional revenues and/or spending cuts. As an economic matter, this shouldn't be hard -- in particular, a modest value-added tax, say at a 5 percent rate, would go a long way toward closing the gap, while leaving overall U.S. taxes among the lowest in the advanced world.
 But if we need to raise taxes and cut spending eventually, shouldn't we start now? No, we shouldn't.
 Right now, we have a severely depressed economy -- and that depressed economy is inflicting long-run damage. Every year that goes by with extremely high unemployment increases the chance that many of the long-term unemployed will never come back to the work force, and become a permanent underclass. Every year that there are five times as many people seeking work as there are job openings means that hundreds of thousands of Americans graduating from school are denied the chance to get started on their working lives. And with each passing month we drift closer to a Japanese-style deflationary trap. 
 Penny-pinching at a time like this isn't just cruel; it endangers the nation's future. And it doesn't even do much to reduce our future debt burden, because stinting on spending now threatens the economic recovery, and with it the hope for rising revenues. 
 So now is not the time for fiscal austerity. How will we know when that time has come? The answer is that the budget deficit should become a priority when, and only when, the Federal Reserve has regained some traction over the economy, so that it can offset the negative effects of tax increases and spending cuts by reducing interest rates.
 Currently, the Fed can't do that, because the interest rates it can control are near zero, and can't go any lower. Eventually, however, as unemployment falls -- probably when it goes below 7 percent or less -- the Fed will want to raise rates to head off possible inflation. At that point we can make a deal: the government starts cutting back, and the Fed holds off on rate hikes so that these cutbacks don't tip the economy back into a slump.
 But the time for such a deal is a long way off -- probably two years or more. The responsible thing, then, is to spend now, while planning to save later.
 As I said, many politicians seem determined to do the reverse. Many members of Congress, in particular, oppose aid to the long-term unemployed, let alone to hard-pressed state and local governments, on the grounds that we can't afford it. In so doing, they are undermining spending at a time when we really need it, and endangering the recovery. Yet efforts to control health costs were met with cries of ''death panels.''
 And some of the most vocal deficit scolds in Congress are working hard to reduce taxes for the handful of lucky Americans who are heirs to multimillion-dollar estates. This would do nothing for the economy now, but it would reduce revenues by billions of dollars a year, permanently.
 But some politicians must be sincere about being fiscally responsible. And to them I say, please get your timing right. Yes, we need to fix our long-run budget problems -- but not by refusing to help our economy in its hour of need. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); VALUE ADDED TAX (76%); DEFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



578 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; COMMENCEMENT SPEECHES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2360 words

HEADLINE: Wisdom of Leaders, Dreamers And an Expert at Kissing

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON; Andrew Keh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
President Obama's speech to cadets at West Point last month marked the ninth consecutive commencement with the nation at war, and he traced the focus of the fighting from Afghanistan to Iraq and back to where it started.
 ''Cadets, there will be difficult days ahead,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We will adapt, we will persist, and I have no doubt that together with our Afghan and international partners, we will succeed.''
Cadets cheered, but commencement speeches each spring produce a tapestry of opinion, and other speakers questioned our Afghanistan strategy. Jeffrey Sachs, the economist, told Grinnell College graduates that Afghanistan's national income is about $10 billion per year. 
 ''Yet, America will spend $100 billion this year,'' Mr. Sachs said, ''in a futile and misguided effort to restore order through a military approach. We could raise that country's income tenfold, but instead we will leave it in even deeper rubble.'' 
 A few campus speakers invoked the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, others urged graduates to look past the toughest job market in decades. ''Don't worry about the first job,'' Professor Sol Gittleman cheerfully told graduates at Tufts. ''The one you'll have in three years hasn't even been invented yet!'' 
 And as in every year, speeches were laden with advice. ''Work like hell,'' Arnold Schwarzenegger said at Emory.
 ''Keep being you,'' Michelle Obama said at George Washington.
 ''Shoot to kill,'' Glenn Beck said at Liberty University.
 Here are excerpts from campus speeches, some condensed slightly.To comment, go to The Choice blog.
 John Grisham Author The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Video
 In the past few years, the publishing industry has been scandalized by a handful of writers who wrote very compelling stories of their real-life adventures. These were good stories, they were well written, the voices were clear and seemingly authentic. They sold for big money, they were marketed aggressively, they were reviewed favorably, and then they were exposed for being what they really were -- frauds, fabrications, lies.
 The real-life adventures never happened. The books were pulled from the shelves. The publishers were embarrassed. Lawsuits were filed to retrieve the advances. And the writers' voices have been forever silenced.
 In life, finding a voice is speaking and living the truth. Each of you is an original. Each of you has a distinctive voice. When you find it, your story will be told. You will be heard.
 Amartya Sen Nobel laureate in economics St. Michael's College Audio
 A well-functioning market economy can make a huge contribution to the growth of incomes and living standards. In the absence of sensible regulations, the market can also yield a complete disaster. What we have to work for now is to seek an appropriate combination of activities of the market and of the state.
 Despite all that Adam Smith did to explicate the contributions of well-functioning markets, he was also deeply concerned about the incidence of poverty, illiteracy, relative deprivation that might remain despite a well-functioning market economy. He wanted public services and not just markets.
 Freeman A. Hrabowski III President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County Harvey Mudd College Audio and video
 His name was Rev. Martin Luther King. ... He said he wanted the children to march in the streets in Birmingham, and unfortunately that meant they would go to jail. And the first day there were guns and dogs and fire hoses and by the second day I said to my parents, ''I've got to go; I've got to go and help out.'' And they said, ''No way.''
 I said: ''Wait a minute. You made me go and sit in church all that time, and now you're going to tell me I can't do what he said? -- You folks are hypocrites.'' Now at that time you really didn't talk back to your parents, believe me. So my daddy said, ''Boy, go to your room.''
 But early the next morning they came in and told me, ''If you want to do this we will support you.'' Now at that point, students, this is about courage. All of a sudden I got really afraid. ... But it was too late to turn around. We marched and we were thrown in the paddy wagon. I spent a horrible week in jail. But what the experience taught me was several things. Number one: I don't have time to be a victim. Number two: Even children can think critically and make decisions that can affect their lives. And number three: America is a great country. Who would have thought years later that I would be president of a predominantly white university?
 Gail Collins New York Times columnist Mount Holyoke College Text
 You're going to write the next chapter. I can't wait to see what happens. The women who went before you won legal equality for our sex. They opened a thousand doors. But here's what they didn't do. They didn't end violence against women. They tried, but today celebrities who beat up their girlfriends, who sexually harass powerless women in bars, are still treated less severely than celebrities who mistreat animals. So we're going to have to pass that battle on to you. They didn't achieve full rights for gay couples. This is the one area, people, where you can be on a picket line and be totally confident that the winds of history are at your back. And they didn't figure out how to find a proper balance for work and family.
 Meryl Streep Actress Barnard College Video
 I am or I was an expert in kissing on stage and on screen. How did I prepare for this? Well most of my preparation took place in my suburban high school or rather, behind my suburban high school in New Jersey. One is obliged to do a great deal of kissing in my line of work. Air kissing, ass-kissing, kissing up and of course actual kissing -- much like hookers, actors have to do it with people we may not like or even know. We may have to do it with friends, which, believe it or not, is particularly awkward -- for people of my generation, it's awkward. My other areas of faux expertise, river rafting, miming the effects of radiation poisoning, knowing which shoes go with which bag, coffee plantation, Turkish, Polish, German, French, Italian -- that's Iowa-Italian from ''The Bridges of Madison County'' -- a bit of the Bronx, Aramaic, Yiddish, Irish clog dancing, cooking, singing, riding horses, knitting, playing the violin and simulating steamy sexual encounters.
 Lionel Richie Songwriter Tuskegee University Video
 For your future and your lives, dare the impossible.
 Let me tell you how I overcame the word ''impossible.'' When I told my parents about dropping out of school and joining the Commodores, that we were going to be the black Beatles and we were going to take over the world, my father said to me, ''That's impossible.'' Of course, he said a few other words I can't use at the commencement exercise this morning, but he was clear that that was impossible. But know that in your life that ''impossible'' will come up, and it is your job to dare the impossible.
 If the book's been written, the money's already been made. Dare to write your own book. Dare the impossible. There will be people who will talk about where they've been, what they've done. I want you to listen, take it all in, and be as cordial as you possibly can. And then I want you to tell them where you're going.
 Mike Moncrief Mayor, Fort Worth, Tex. Texas Christian University
 Never be afraid to try something new. Remember: Noah had never built an ark, but it was a large group of professionals that built the Titanic.
 Rachel Maddow Television host Smith College Video
 It is important to remember Prohibition because enacting it was a disaster for our nation, but it was a personal triumph for Carry Nation.
 I would like to offer the hypothesis on this beautiful graduation day that personal triumphs are overrated. Someone at Yum! Brands this year achieved their personal triumph of getting KFC to remove the bun from a cheese and bacon sandwich and replace that bun with pieces of fried chicken. The Double Down sandwich designer's personal triumph. ...
 Someone invented the payday loan. ...
 All these people dreamed their dreams. Some dreams are bad dreams.
 Gunning not just for personal triumph for yourself but for durable achievement to be proud of for life is the difference between winning things and leadership. ... It's agreeing that you are part of something, taking as your baseline that you will not seek to reach your own goals by stepping on the neck of your community.
 Steven Chu Secretary of Energy Washington University Text
 In order to meet the energy and environmental challenges we face, we will need nothing less than a second industrial revolution. The first Industrial Revolution supplanted human and animal power with machines powered by fossil fuel. Today, we use the power of two horses to dry our hair. We go to the local market under the pull of hundreds of horses, and fly across our continent with a hundred thousand horses. A second industrial revolution is needed to provide the world's energy needs in an environmentally sustainable way. America has the opportunity to lead in this new industrial revolution and build the foundation of our future prosperity. Alternatively, we can hope that the price of oil will return to $30 a barrel and that climate change is not a serious threat. If we are wrong, we will be importing the new energy technologies developed by Europe and Asia.
 Glenn Beck Television host Liberty University Video
 Learn, laugh, love. Sleep hard, but sleep less. Pray on your knees.
 To whom much is given much is required. You have been given the world and beyond. ... Never want anything too much. You will pay too high of a price one way or another. Labels are meaningless, but Louis Vuitton shoes are really the best. Someone you meet today is afraid or suffering. Find them. Find them every day and comfort them. Shoot to kill. Always tithe.
 Admiral Michael Mullen Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Florida A & M Text
 In 2005, when I was the head of the Navy, I went to a conference in New Orleans on diversity -- ethnic diversity, gender diversity -- and I walked in with my immediate staff, which was all white male. A young officer from the Coast Guard sent me a note after that that said you have to walk the walk, not just talk the talk. He wasn't happy with what my staff looked like. About 18 months later, in my home, I was having a farewell party for my immediate staff of about 15 to 20 officers and I stood back and looked, and I think I was the only white male in the group. Now that's a lesson about young people telling their seniors when they don't have it right.
 Eric H. Holder Jr. United States attorney general Columbia Law School Video
 During my undergraduate years here in Morningside Heights, I was one of many students on this campus who felt strongly about, well, nearly everything. It was the '70s. During my senior year, several of us took one of our concerns -- that black students needed a designated space to gather on campus -- to the dean's office. This being Columbia, we proceeded to occupy that office. The target of that sit-in was Dean Henry Coleman. He heard us out, led us toward common ground and, eventually, to a compromise. But I'm not sure he was very happy about, shall we say, his forced captivity. In the ultimate display of chutzpah, however, I still asked Dean Coleman to recommend me for admission into this law school. And, lo and behold, he agreed.
 Michelle Obama First lady George Washington University Video and text
 Imagine a child whose first memory of an American is a student who helps him see again. Imagine a community whose first experience with America is a group of youth on winter break standing side by side with them building homes. Imagine a country shattered by a catastrophic earthquake that they see wave after wave of rescuers and doctors and relief workers all wearing the stars and stripes on their sleeve.
 Imagine how powerful that is. Imagine what impact thousands of stories like that today can have a decade from now.
 Patti Smith Singer Pratt Institute Video
 My greatest urge is to speak to you of dental care. My generation had a rough go dentally. Our dentists were the Army dentists who came back from World War II and believed that the dental office was a battleground. You have a better chance at dental health. And I say this because you want at night to be pacing the floor because your fuse is burning inside of you, because you want to do your work, because you want to finish that canvas, because you want to help your fellow man. You don't want to be pacing because you need a damn root canal. So, floss. Use salt and baking soda. Take care of your damn teeth.
 Sonia Sotomayor Supreme Court justice Saint Lawrence University Audio
 My sense of reality disappeared in May of last year when I first met with the president in the Oval Office. We spent over an hour together in conversation. A few days later, the president, with the vice president standing by, announced that he had selected me as his first nominee to the United States Supreme Court. I can not begin to describe what that moment was like. But just as memorable for me is the fact that in the moments before the cameras began to roll, the president had been speaking with my nephews about soccer, while the vice president talked with my brother about golf. In the weeks and months that followed, I began my work as the newest justice, met with presidents, ambassadors, dignitaries and judges from around the world, and even threw out a first pitch at a Yankees-Red Sox game in the new Yankee Stadium. Can you guess who won? None of these things had seemed possible to me when, in 1976, I took my first step as a college graduate, and entered law school.
 John McCain United States senator Ohio Wesleyan University Video and text
 You might think that I'm now going to advise you not to be afraid to fail. I'm not. Be afraid. Speaking from considerable experience, failing stinks. Just don't be undone by it. Failure is no more a permanent condition than is success.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''My sense of reality disappeared in May of last year when I first met with the president in the Oval Office.'' SONIA SOTOMAYOR Supreme Court justice (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARA FREEMAN/ST. LAWRENCE UNIVERSITY)
''You want at night to be pacing the floor because your fuse is burning inside of you.'' PATTI SMITH Singer (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENE PEREZ)
 ''A second industrial revolution is needed to provide the world's energy needs in an environmentally sustainable way.'' STEVEN CHU Energy secretary (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE ANGELES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); WRITERS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); OIL SPILLS (67%); PUBLISHING (67%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (59%); STEVEN CHU (59%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%); GLENN BECK (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (70%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010



579 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: In Concession, Israel Relaxes Gaza Blockade

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Reporting was contributed by Mark Landler from Washington and Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Bowing to worldwide pressure and condemnation, Israel on Sunday formally announced an eased blockade of Gaza that could significantly expand the flow of goods overland into the impoverished coastal Palestinian enclave, isolated by the Israelis for three years.
 The announcement, made by the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, came three weeks after a deadly Israeli naval commando raid that thwarted a breach of the blockade by a flotilla of pro-Palestinian aid activists. That raid outraged much of the world and became a catalyst for a serious re-examination by Israel of its policy toward Gaza, which is governed by the militant anti-Israeli group Hamas and is home to 1.5 million Palestinians.
 While Mr. Netanyahu did not signal an end to the naval blockade of Gaza or specify precisely what goods would be allowed, his action earned unusual praise from the Obama administration, which has been critical of Israel over the past year and has called the Gaza situation unsustainable.
 The White House, which has been pushing Israel for a new approach toward Gaza since the flotilla raid, said that President Obama and Mr. Netanyahu would meet in Washington on July 6, a rescheduling of a meeting canceled after the raid, when Mr. Netanyahu cut short a trip abroad. 
 There were other new signs of a diplomatic relaxation of the crisis atmosphere that prevailed after the flotilla raid. Mr. Netanyahu announced the Gaza changes jointly in Jerusalem with Tony Blair, the Middle East envoy of the so-called quartet of Middle East peacemakers -- the United States, the United Nations, the European Union and Russia. Mr. Blair said the ''practical effect'' of Israel's new policy ''should change radically the flow of goods and material into Gaza.''
 Mr. Netanyahu said that Israel ''seeks to keep out of Gaza weapons and war-supporting materiel that Hamas uses'' to attack Israel and its civilians. He said, however, ''All other goods will be allowed into Gaza.'' 
 In what amounted to a reversal of the system of the last three years, Israel said it would create a list of items not permitted to enter Gaza for security reasons, rather than allowing in only those items that were specifically approved, as before. 
 In a vague statement of principle last Thursday, Israel said it was ready for ''adjustments'' in its Gaza policy. But the language of the announcement on Sunday suggested a possibility of more sweeping change. Israel said it would expand operations at the land crossings already operating to enable processing of ''a significantly greater volume of goods'' and ''the expansion of economic activity.'' It spoke of opening more land crossings in the future.
 It also said it would ''streamline the policy'' on the entry and exit of Palestinians for humanitarian and medical reasons, and on movement of employees of international aid organizations. ''As conditions improve,'' it added, Israel would consider ''additional ways to facilitate the movement of people to and from Gaza.''
 But Israel said that it would maintain the naval blockade, seen as essential to prevent weapons smuggling, and said all cargo bound for Gaza by sea would continue to be delivered via the Israeli port of Ashdod. 
 On Sunday, the White House said it ''welcomes the new policy towards Gaza announced by the government of Israel, which responds to the calls of many in the international community.''
 ''Once implemented,'' the statement continued, ''we believe these arrangements should significantly improve conditions for Palestinians in Gaza, while preventing the entry of weapons.''
 Still, Israel did not agree to all American demands. Senior American officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly, said the administration had been pressing Israel to open more land crossings, but that the Israelis were resisting, at least for now. 
 Both the White House and Mr. Blair signaled that Israel had not gone as far as they wished. ''Plainly, there are still issues to be addressed,'' said Mr. Blair, the former British prime minister, ''and the test of course will not be what is said, but what is done.'' 
 One senior American official echoed him. ''We think this is a good move, but obviously implementation is key,'' he said. But he added: ''Everything that we'd like to see is on there.''
 Israel's relations with Washington have deteriorated over the last year, with America's anger peaking over the continued building of Jewish homes in East Jerusalem, which the Palestinians want as a capital for a future state. Israel had been hoping to improve its relationship with Washington after the start of indirect, American-brokered talks with the Palestinians in May. 
 The American-Israeli chill appears to have diminished substantially, the American official said. Even as the administration pushed Israel hard to relax the Gaza border controls, he said the negotiation was more collaborative than combative.
 Nine Turks, including one who also had American citizenship, were killed during the raid when violent clashes broke out on a Turkish passenger boat. The episode gravely damaged Israel's relations with Turkey, its once-close Muslim ally.
 Turkey did not immediately seem mollified by Mr. Netanyahu's announcement. Egemen Bagis, Turkish minister for European Union affairs, said, ''If the Israeli government really wishes to prove that they have given up the act of piracy and terror, they should primarily apologize and claim responsibility in the slaying of nine people on May 31.'' 
 Hanin Zuabi, an Israeli Arab member of Parliament who was aboard the Turkish boat, said the announcement amounted to a victory for the flotilla. ''This is the beginning of the total collapse of the siege,'' she told Ynet, an Israeli news Web site. 
 Israeli officials said that from Monday, there would be a 30 percent increase in the volume of goods passing into Gaza through the Kerem Shalom crossing.
 Israeli sanctions on Gaza began in 2006, after Hamas won Palestinian legislative elections, then led a cross-border raid and captured an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit. A strict Israeli embargo has been in place, with Egypt's help, since Hamas took full control of Gaza in 2007, ousting forces loyal to the pro-Western Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, whose powers are now limited to the West Bank.
 Israel said that as part of its easing of restrictions, it will expand the inflow of material for construction projects in Gaza that are carried out with Palestinian Authority approval and under international supervision.
 Construction materials had been strictly limited until now, with Israel arguing they could help Hamas build bunkers and rockets. The ban hampered reconstruction after Israel's three-week military campaign in Gaza that ended in January 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A shipment of cement and steel last month that Israel allowed in order to restore a hospital in Gaza that had been destroyed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAID KHATIB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES)
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel arriving for the weekly cabinet meeting at his Jerusalem office on Sunday. (POOL PHOTO BY GALI TIBBON)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (90%); HAMAS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); TONY BLAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



580 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Car Bombs Hit Crowds Outside Bank In Baghdad

BYLINE: By KHALID D. ALI and TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Omar al-Jawoshy and Zaid Thaker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- A pair of car bombs detonated simultaneously outside Iraq's Bank of Trade on Sunday morning, killing 26 people and wounding 52 others in the second attack on a major government financial institution in eight days.
 There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing, but the Islamic State of Iraq, an insurgent group with ties to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, has said it was responsible for a raid at Iraq's Central Bank in Baghdad the previous Sunday that killed 15 people and wounded 50. 
 A separate bombing killed three police officers in Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown north of Baghdad. 
 The bombings came during a period of political uncertainty -- negotiations to form a new government have stalled more than three months after parliamentary elections -- which insurgents are seeking to exploit to destabilize the country further, American and Iraqi officials said.
 ''They are targeting financial institutions to try to harm the economic situation because they want to keep international companies from investing here,'' said Dr. Jabir al-Jabiri, a newly elected member of Parliament.
 The twin blasts near Nisour Square, which was crowded with people at the start of the workweek here, were powerful enough to toss several cars onto nearby rooftops, witnesses said, and turned the area into a scene reminiscent of the worst days of the war, with white sheets covering the dead, body parts littering the ground and people with shrapnel wounds wandering dazed, asking for water. 
 Nisour Square is home to several government buildings, including a police station and the agency that issues national identification cards, but is perhaps best known outside Iraq as the place where Blackwater Worldwide guards killed 17 Iraqi civilians in 2007.
 The trade bank was established after the United States-led invasion in 2003 to help finance reconstruction efforts and international trade. 
 The bank's chairman, Hussein al-Uzri, said in a statement that the bombings had killed five bank guards and wounded six other employees.
 The attack ''was an act of cowardice by malevolent forces who wish to undermine the progress that Iraq is steadily making towards stability,'' he said. He pledged that the bank would reopen for business on Monday.
 The car bombs might have been directed at a convoy driving into the bank's entrance at about 11 a.m., Iraqi Army officers at the scene said. It was not immediately clear who was in the convoy or whether they were wounded.
 The bank's windows facing the street were blown out, but the extent of damage to the rest of the building, which is protected by a blast wall, was not clear on Sunday evening.
 Abdul Rasul Kareem, a civil defense officer who responded to the attack, said he heard an explosion and immediately rushed to help.
 ''We were trying to put out the fire in a car and to rescue victims,'' he said. ''I was shouting for ambulances to help people. My team was searching roofs for people.''
 A woman, who identified herself as Um Hussein, wept as she surveyed the wreckage. ''My son, my son!'' she said. 
 An Iraqi Army soldier came up to her and handed her a cellphone, saying her son had only been wounded and was in the hospital waiting to speak to her. 
 As she listened to the voice on the other end, her face lighted up. But after a few moments, she began to cry again. 
 ''No,'' she said. ''This is not my son.'' She collapsed onto the ground a few feet from a body.
 In Tikrit, a roadside bomb exploded as a police patrol passed Sunday evening, killing three officers and wounding six civilians, the police said. 
 Also on Sunday, the Iraqi authorities said they had found the decomposing bodies of seven people inside a house in central Baghdad. All had been shot in the head and were believed to have been dead for at least a week.
 The authorities said four were women who had been found naked and that the victims included a 10-year-old boy and a 12-year-old girl. 
 Neighbors said they thought the women might have been prostitutes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); AL-QAEDA (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ARMIES (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); RELIGION (57%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (91%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



581 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Value Of Currency To Be Slow, China Insists

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A day after announcing that it would allow a more flexible currency, China said on Sunday that any appreciation in its value would be gradual, and it set the renminbi's value in early trading on Monday at the same level as it traded on Friday.
 By early afternoon, the renminbi had climbed 0.27 percent in Shanghai trading. This was the first time that the Chinese government has allowed such a jump in intraday trading since before it repegged the renminbi to the dollar almost two years ago.
 The central bank's statement on Sunday and the decision on Monday morning to leave the currency unchanged represented clear attempts to reassure the Chinese people that there would not be a disruptive change. 
 The central bank's statement on Sunday afternoon coincided with signs of a negative reaction in China, where many view a weak currency and strong exports as symbols of national sovereignty. The initial announcement on Saturday evening that China would allow its currency, the renminbi, to fluctuate drew caustic postings on Chinese Internet sites, like this one on Sohu.com: ''I didn't imagine I would see the day when China would submit to America and agree to appreciation of the renminbi.''
 Postings criticizing the government's announcement seemed to disappear almost as quickly as they appeared, an indication that government censors were active.
 Asian stock markets rose on Monday morning, with the Hang Seng up 2.85 percent, as investors seemed to conclude that China's willingness to act on the currency could reduce the likelihood of trade frictions with the United States.
 But China's determination to limit the rate at which the renminbi rises against other currencies, particularly the dollar, together with its decision to hold the currency unchanged on Monday morning at 6.8275 to the dollar, made further friction with the United States Congress more likely.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, responded to the Chinese statement on Sunday and the unchanged value of the renminbi at the market opening on Monday morning by promising to move ahead as quickly as possible on legislation that could lead to restrictions on Chinese imports.
 ''China's conflicting statements over the weekend gave support to both optimists and pessimists in regard to China's desire to let its currency appreciate,'' he said. ''Today's market opening is an indication that those of us who have been pessimists are right.''
 When world leaders gather next weekend for meetings in Toronto, enthusiasm about China's new currency policy may be tempered by Beijing's public caution that any changes will be slow and modest.
 The central bank, the People's Bank of China, said on Sunday that it was determined to ''keep the renminbi exchange rate at a reasonable and balanced level of basic stability.''
 A stronger renminbi would make Chinese goods more expensive in foreign markets, providing relief for American, European and Japanese companies and workers who have struggled to compete with low-price exports from China.
 But the Chinese government has long been wary of letting the currency move too quickly, for fear that this would lead to mass layoffs and social instability at export factories in coastal areas.
 The currency issue is heavily freighted with diplomatic ramifications. China's exchange rate has been a central point of tension between Beijing and Washington, and American officials have been persistent in pushing for a change. Though the Obama administration has sought to minimize a public confrontation with China, it could be put in a difficult position if the renminbi barely moves against the dollar.
 The United States Treasury Department had no direct response to the latest Chinese statement. A spokeswoman for the agency said that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's comments on Saturday evening remained the American position. Mr. Geithner had said then that ''this is an important step, but the test will be how far and how fast they let the currency appreciate.''
 In April, Mr. Geithner postponed the release of a twice-yearly report to Congress on whether China was manipulating the value of its currency. The Treasury has made no further decision on what to do about that report, an American official said Saturday evening, insisting on anonymity because of the delicacy of currency policy.
 The issue has become a tricky one internally for the Chinese government. While China still muzzles its media through censorship, public opinion expressed on the Internet has become an increasingly influential force.
 Even though some Chinese economists and most Western economists say that a stronger renminbi is clearly in China's best economic interests -- because it would help China fight inflation by making imports cheaper -- many Chinese see the issue mainly in terms of a rivalry with the United States.
 When President Obama imposed steep tariffs on tire imports from China in September, the country's Commerce Ministry initially issued a tepid response.
 But faced with furious criticism on the Internet, the ministry changed its position a day later and announced in an angry statement that it would retaliate by taking steps to restrict some American exports to China.
 The central bank's statement on Sunday was issued only in Chinese and was clearly intended for domestic consumption. In contrast, its announcement on Saturday was issued almost simultaneously in Chinese and English.
 The statement said that the central bank was returning to its practice from 2005 to 2008 of setting the value of the renminbi relative to a basket of currencies, and not just linking it to the dollar.
 The renminbi rose 21 percent against the dollar during those three years, including a one-time jump of 2 percent when the policy was announced in July 2005. But after that one-time increase, the renminbi barely rose for months.
 China informally repegged the renminbi at about 6.827 to the dollar in July 2008, as the world economy and financial system began to deteriorate rapidly. The government has kept the value of the renminbi unchanged against the dollar since then by buying hundreds of billions of dollars and euros each year in currency markets, selling renminbi to do so.
 To finance those purchases, the Chinese government has been borrowing the equivalent of nearly one-tenth of the country's economic output each year.
 Most of this borrowing has come from China's state-controlled banking system, one of several reasons that lending has been squeezed to the country's small and midsize businesses.
 Investment bank economists in Hong Kong predicted over the weekend that China would allow the renminbi to crawl higher against the dollar by no more than 3 percent by year-end. They pointed out that the renminbi, through its link to the dollar, had risen 15 percent against the euro in the last two months as Europe struggled with debt problems.
 The Chinese central bank also said on Sunday that it would not let the value of the renminbi ''overshoot,'' an economic term for a currency's rising or falling so fast that it passed whatever level might be justified by long-term economic fundamentals. The central bank gave no indication of what it thought a sustainable level would be.
 The International Monetary Fund concluded in a report on China last summer that the renminbi was significantly undervalued, a term the agency reserves for currencies that are more than 20 percent below where market forces would normally set them, according to people who have seen the report.
 But China's trade surplus has narrowed in recent months, even turning into a small deficit in March. This has prompted Western economists to suggest that the undervaluation may have narrowed somewhat as demand in China for imports increased.
 Zoe Zhang, the sales manager at Dongguan Wellcom Electronics, which makes portable CD players in Dongguan, China, said on Sunday that her company was ready for the renminbi to move gradually.
 ''Last time the government appreciated the renminbi, we were all caught by surprise,'' she said. ''But this time, we have been expecting the renminbi to appreciate since April.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Saturday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner called China's decision ''an important step, but the test will be how far and how fast they let the currency appreciate.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); CENSORSHIP (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); LEGISLATION (69%)

COMPANY: SOHU.COM INC (90%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%)

TICKER: SOHU (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



582 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: 'National Mission'

 BODY:
To anyone watching the oil spew into the Gulf of Mexico, the argument for curbing this country's appetite for fossil fuels could not be clearer. President Obama was right last week when he called on America to unify behind a ''national mission'' to find alternative energy sources, sharply reduce its dependence on oil and cut its greenhouse gas emissions. 
 We were disappointed, however, that Mr. Obama's address failed to insist that the best way to do all of these things is to establish a broadly based, economywide cap-and-trade system that would put a price on carbon emissions. He opened the door far too wide to alternative policies that aren't real alternatives -- and to more stalling. 
 A House bill approved last year would set up such a system. Action in the Senate has been delayed for months, as Republicans, and some Democrats, have argued without any real proof that capping and pricing carbon emissions would cripple the economy by driving up the cost of energy. 
 On Wednesday, Democratic leaders, who have promised to bring an energy bill to the Senate floor after the Fourth of July recess but are nowhere near agreement on what should be in it, will troop down to the White House. This time, Mr. Obama must stress, explicitly and emphatically, that a conventional energy bill will not do -- and that attaching real costs to older, dirtier fuels now dumped free of charge into the atmosphere is the surest way to persuade American industry to develop cleaner fuels. 
 Mr. Obama also needs to push back a lot harder against critics who claim, wrongly, that such an approach will raise electricity and fuel prices to unacceptable levels. 
 A new analysis from the Environmental Protection Agency shows that the most ambitious bill before the Senate, sponsored by John Kerry and Joseph Lieberman, would cost American households at most an additional $150 a year. That does not seem too high a price to pay for helping to avoid dangerous climate change. A simpler if less ambitious carbon cap proposal offered by Senators Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, and Maria Cantwell, a Washington Democrat, is designed to cost consumers even less, and is worthy of attention. 
 There are other honorable bills out there that have much to recommend them but fall short because they do not include mandatory greenhouse gas reductions or a price signal. A measure sponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, would require utilities to generate 15 percent of their power from renewable sources by 2021. 
 A bill from Indiana's Richard Lugar (one of the few Republicans to have stepped forward with genuinely positive ideas) seeks tighter fuel economy standards for cars and stricter efficiency standards for buildings -- two huge sources of carbon emissions.
 Those are good ideas that should be part of a comprehensive bill. By themselves they are not enough to reduce the country's dependence on fossil fuels or combat the dangers of climate change. 
 The politics won't be easy. Some big oil and power companies will push back hard, as will nearly all Republicans and many Rust Belt Democrats. But Americans are rightly outraged by the spill in the gulf. This is clearly the moment for President Obama and Senate leaders to deliver a tough and ambitious energy bill capable of protecting the environment and the nation's security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); JEFF BINGAMAN (56%); MARIA CANTWELL (52%); SUSAN COLLINS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



583 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, Internal Dissent Could Stop an Agenda Cold

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
As Democrats try again this week to fight through their election-year storm, Job No. 1 is settling on a common destination.
 For instance, they will need to make order out of chaos on energy, the issue President Obama elevated from the Oval Office last week. Two days later, three Senate Democrats presented different plans to a party caucus that failed to settle on one approach.
''We are not going today to tell you what we're going to have in this legislation,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, acknowledged afterward, ''because that's a work in progress.'' 
 So is a major tax and spending bill, which has split Senate Democrats over conflicting imperatives to aid Americans suffering from a weak economy and to prevent higher deficits. In the House, Speaker Nancy Pelosi delayed action on campaign finance legislation after a compromise struck with the National Rifle Association to win over moderates upset the Black Caucus.
 All Democratic factions exulted in the Republican public relations disaster of Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas, who apologized to BP before retracting his words under orders from party leaders. Yet that provided only temporary respite from intra-Democratic battles after a 17-month roller-coaster ride in which their reward for advancing Mr. Obama's agenda is near-10-percent unemployment and ominous pre-election polls.
 ''This is a difficult moment for Democrats,'' said William A. Galston, who was domestic policy chief in the Clinton White House. ''Under this kind of pressure in an election year, it's inevitable.''
 Competing Priorities
 For much of the 20th century, when the Democratic Party contained white Southern conservatives, Northern liberals and African-Americans, the party had a reputation for fractiousness and ideological diversity. That diversity faded in recent decades as conservatives moved toward the Republicans.
 Democratic gains in 2006 and 2008 swept in a raft of new members from conservative-leaning states and districts. But internal fissures in the Obama era have generally paled alongside those of earlier times. On issues like economic stimulus, health care and new financial regulations, Democratic lawmakers have displayed remarkable unity of purpose.
 That is why the Democratic infighting now rising with the summer temperatures poses such problems for the White House. With Republicans maintaining near-unanimous opposition, even a moderate amount of internal dissent could stop Mr. Obama's agenda cold.
 ''You have one party that has taken a pass on governing,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''Our system's not set up for that.''
 Most vexing are the colliding priorities on the economy. Many Democrats consider it self-evident that spending billions of dollars more on unemployment benefits, Medicaid assistance and state aid to avoid teacher layoffs makes economic and political sense.
 But more deficit-conscious Democrats, including vulnerable first-term members elected with Mr. Obama, consider it equally obvious that Congress must curb federal borrowing and answer public concerns about debt and deficits. Mr. Obama's answer for reconciling those impulses, short-term spending and long-term austerity, has been hard to sell.
 ''The challenge is doing both without sending conflicting messages,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, the Maryland Democrat who is chairman of the party's House campaign committee. ''That's the balance you see members struggling with.''
 Avoiding Risks
 Energy presents another huge challenge as midterm elections draw closer.
 Mr. Obama says only capping and putting a price on carbon dioxide emissions can accomplish three fundamental goals: lessening America's dependence on oil, turning renewable alternatives into viable sources of energy and jobs, and curbing global warming.
 But energy-state Democrats fear the economic effects, and vulnerable Democratic candidates fear Republican attacks on the administration's ''cap and tax'' proposal. Even Democrats with common policy goals diverge on strategy.
 Some environmentalists want to use outrage over the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in a last-ditch push for Mr. Obama's carbon cap, which has passed the House but stalled in the Senate.
 Others say the idea has already proved politically untenable; they want Democrats to settle for energy-efficiency legislation, then let Mr. Obama use his executive authority to regulate carbon through the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Advocates of a cap ''keep driving themselves into the wall,'' said Timothy E. Wirth, a former Democratic senator from Colorado, who is now president of the United Nations Foundation. ''It's insane.''
 Caution on energy fits with Mr. Galston's suggestion for the unifying Democratic principle until Election Day: Avoid any further risks for incumbents in trouble.
 But even that least-common-denominator strategy is not easy. The same polls that show voters upset about joblessness also show them upset about deficit spending, which Democratic leaders consider their only short-term method of reducing joblessness.
 ''There are moments in which the dominant premises of public argument are pretty clearly not true,'' concluded Mr. Galston, who is now a Brookings Institution scholar. ''But if you work in a democracy, you've got to pay some attention to what the public believes.''
 This article is a more complete version of the one that appears in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democrats need to avoid conflicting messages, says Chris Van Hollen of Maryland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); MEDICAID (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



584 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: The Agony of the Liberals

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
They doubted him during the health care debate. They second-guessed his Afghanistan policy. They've fretted over his coziness with Wall Street and his comfort with executive power. 
 But now is the summer of their discontent. From MSNBC to ''The Daily Show,'' from The Huffington Post to the halls of Congress, movement liberals have had just about enough of Barack Obama. 
 The catalyst was last week's lackluster Oval Office address, but the real complaints run deeper. Many liberals look at this White House and see a presidency adrift -- unable to respond effectively to the crisis in the gulf, incapable of rallying the country to great tasks like the quest for clean energy, and unwilling to do what it takes to jump-start the economy. 
 American liberalism has always had a reputation for fractiousness and frantic self-critique. But even by those standards, the current bout of anguish over the Obama presidency seems bizarrely disproportionate.
 This is the same Barack Obama, after all, who shepherded universal health care, the dream of liberals since the days of Harry Truman (if not Thomas Paine), through several near-death experiences and finally into law. It's the same Obama who staked the fate of the American economy on a $787 billion exercise in Keynesian pump-priming. It's the same Obama who has done more to advance liberal priorities than any president since Lyndon Johnson. 
 Yet many on the left are talking as if he's no better for liberalism than Bill Clinton circa 1996 -- another compromiser, another triangulator and another disappointment. 
 At work in this liberal panic are two intellectual vices, and one legitimate fear. The first vice is the worship of presidential power: the belief that any problem, any crisis, can be swiftly solved by a strong government, and particularly a strong executive. A gushing oil well, a recalcitrant Congress, a public that's grown weary of grand ambitions -- all of these challenges could be mastered, Obama's leftward critics seem to imagine, if only he were bolder or angrier, or maybe just more determined. 
 This vice isn't confined to liberals: you can see it at work when foreign policy hawks suggest that mere presidential ''toughness'' is the key to undoing Iran's clerical regime, or disarming North Korea. But it runs deepest among progressives. When Rachel Maddow fantasized last week about how Obama should simply dictate energy legislation to a submissive Congress, she was unconsciously echoing midcentury liberal theoreticians of the presidency like Arthur Schlesinger Jr., who often wrote as if a Franklin Roosevelt or a John F. Kennedy could run the country by fiat. (They couldn't.)
 The second vice is an overweening faith in theory. It's now conventional wisdom among Obama's liberal critics that the White House has been insufficiently ambitious about deficit spending. The economy is stuck in neutral, they argue, because Obama didn't push last year's recovery act up over a trillion dollars, and hasn't pressed hard enough for a second major stimulus.
 Technically, they could be right -- but only in the same way that it's possible that the Iraq War would have been a ringing success if only we'd invaded with a million extra soldiers. The theory is unfalsifiable because the policy course is imaginary. Maybe in some parallel universe there's a Congress that would be willing to borrow and spend trillions in stimulus dollars, despite record deficits, if that's what liberal economists said the situation required. But not in this one.
 Yet the liberal drumbeat continues. As Tyler Cowen wrote last week: ''advocates of fiscal stimulus make it sound as simple as solving an undergraduate homework problem and ... sometimes genuinely do not realize how much the rest of the world, including politicians, views them as simply being very convinced by their own theory.'' Nor do they acknowledge how much risk those same politicians have already taken on (with the first stimulus, the health care bill, and much else besides) in the name of theoretical propositions, while reaping little for their efforts save an ever-grimmer fiscal picture.
 But it's here, with the looming fiscal crisis, that the more legitimate liberal fear comes in. Liberals had hoped that Obama's election marked the beginning of a long progressive era -- a new New Deal, a greater Great Society. Instead, from the West Coast to Western Europe, the welfare state is in crisis everywhere they look. The future suddenly seems to belong to austerity and retrenchment -- and even, perhaps, to conservatism. 
 In this environment, the rage against Obama for not doing more, now, faster, becomes at least somewhat understandable. It's not that he hasn't done a great deal for liberals during his 18 months in office. It's that liberalism itself may be running out of time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



585 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include existing home sales for May (Tuesday); new-home sales for May (Wednesday); durable goods orders for May and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index for June and the revised first-quarter gross domestic product (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Adobe Systems and Walgreen (Tuesday); Bed Bath & Beyond, Darden Restaurants, Nike and Rite Aid (Wednesday); and ConAgra Foods, Discover Financial Services, H & R Block, Lennar and Oracle (Thursday).
 IN THE UNITED STATES The Federal Open Market Committee will begin a two-day meeting on Tuesday, with a decision on interest rates coming at 2:15 p.m. on Wednesday; House and Senate lawmakers will resume negotiations on legislation to overhaul financial regulations (Tuesday); and President Obama is scheduled to meet with senators to discuss energy legislation (Wednesday).
 WORLDWIDE Leaders from the Group of 20 will meet in Toronto (Saturday and Sunday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (72%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (72%); DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (57%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (72%); ADB (FRA) (72%); DRI (NYSE) (72%); DFS (NYSE) (57%); HRB (NYSE) (57%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (57%); CAG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (72%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



586 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 KYRGYZSTAN REMOVES
 Barriers Put Up by Uzbeks
 Kyrgyz soldiers with heavy machinery pulled down barricades that minority Uzbeks had erected to protect their neighborhoods and that have been among the most visible symbols of this city's venomous ethnic divide. PAGE A4
 COLOMBIA'S NEW LEADER
 Colombian voters overwhelmingly elected Juan Manuel Santos, an American-educated former defense minister as their new president. Mr. Santos oversaw a forceful counterinsurgency against the country's rebel groups. PAGE A10
 NO CLEAR WINNER IN POLAND 
 Poland's presidential election appeared headed for a runoff between the acting president and the twin brother of the man he succeeded, who died in an April plane crash that also killed his wife and many of the country's civilian and military leaders. PAGE A5
 3 KILLED IN AFGHAN BOMBING
 A boy, a girl and a woman were killed when a bomb stashed in a pushcart exploded in front of a bank in the southern city of Lashkar Gah.
 EGYPT'S OUTPOST OF TOLERANCE
 No matter how the conservative social forces of modern Egypt press in, Alexandria cannot fully turn its back on a past so different from the present, when diversity and tolerance eclipsed conformity and tradition. PAGE A6
 IN JAPAN, OLD MEDIA REIGNS
 For a variety of reasons, cultural as well as economic, the digital revolution has yet to wreak the same havoc on the news media in Japan that it has in the United States and most other advanced countries. PAGE A14
 CASE REFERRED TO VATICAN
 The archbishop of Santiago, Cardinal Francisco Javier Errazuriz, has asked the Vatican to decide the fate of a prominent Chilean priest who has been accused by several former parishioners of sexually abusing them when they were teenagers. PAGE A12
 Iran Hangs Rebel Chief A12
 National
 IN DETROIT, RAZING THE CITY
 In Order to Save It
 After decades of mostly ignoring the problem of its hemorrhaging population, the Detroit government this year began using federal money to demolish 10,000 empty residential buildings, with a goal of bringing down the first 3,000 structures by the end of the year. The city hopes that in shrinking the city, it can also save it. PAGE A16
 NO SMOKING ON SUBMARINES
 As part of a campaign by the Pentagon and the Department of Veterans Affairs to help military personnel kick the smoking habit, the Navy has banned smoking on all submarines. For the 5,000 sailors who admitted to being smokers among the submarine fleet's 13,000 crew members -- that is just shy of 40 percent -- the ban goes into effect at the end of the year. PAGE A16
 DISSENT AMONG DEMOCRATS
 Democrats exulted in the Republican public relations disaster of Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas, who apologized to BP before retracting his words under orders from party leaders. But that provided only temporary respite from intra-Democratic battles after a 17-month roller-coaster ride in which their reward for advancing President Obama's agenda has been ominous pre-election polls. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A17
 New York
 OVERHAULING DRUG LAWS 
 At Issue in Campaign
 The long-sought overhaul of New York's strict Rockefeller-era drug laws, which bound judges to sentence even nonviolent, first-time drug offenders to prison, has emerged as a litmus test in the increasingly bitter five-way Democratic primary battle for attorney general. PAGE A23
 MORE TRANSIT CUTS PROPOSED
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is preparing additional service changes for the fall and winter, including trims to rush-hour service on several popular buses and on the No. 7 train, even as New Yorkers are bracing for the loss of two subway lines and dozens of bus routes in less than a week. PAGE A25
 Business
 REINVENTING TYPING
 On Cellphones
 More phones are using virtual keyboards on a touch screen, replacing physical buttons. But pecking out a message on a small piece of glass is not so easy, and typos are common. A new technology called Swype allows users to glide a finger across the virtual keyboard to spell words, rather than tapping out each letter. PAGE B1
 TAKING LARRY KING'S PLACE
 Larry King's contract is up a year from now, and as his ratings have slipped far behind those of his competitors in his time slot, CNN has made no specific comment on succession. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1 
 MOVING DATA IN TINY BITS
 A new wave of highly specialized technology -- both software and hardware -- is being built by and for Web titans like Facebook, Yahoo and Google to help them break data into bite-size chunks, and present their Web pages as quickly and cheaply as possible, even as they grapple with increasing volumes of data. The products reflect a potential changing of the guard in Silicon Valley. PAGE B6
 Arts
 PIXAR 'TOY STORY 3'
 Is a Strong No. 1
 Pixar's ''Toy Story 3,'' sold $109 million in ticket sales in North America over the weekend and is on track to deliver a total domestic gross of over $400 million, analysts said. The film entered the marketplace as a strong No. 1 -- the 11th Pixar title in a row to achieve that feat. The result was Pixar's best opening ever, even when adjusting for inflation. PAGE C1
 3-D GAMING WITHOUT GLASSES
 The Electronic Entertainment Expo, or E3, is the video-game industry's annual showcase, and Seth Shiesel writes that the clear star of the show was Nintendo's 3DS, a portable gaming device that displays true 3-D images without the use of special glasses. PAGE C1
 Obituaries
 AL WILLIAMSON, 79
 In an art career that lasted more than 50 years, he worked for nearly every major comics publisher, including EC, Marvel, King, Classics Illustrated, Dark Horse and Dell. PAGE B8
 Sports
 A WIMBLEDON JOURNEY
 That Began in a Van
 Dustin Brown of Jamaica arrived at Wimbledon as perhaps the first singles player from the West Indies in more than four decades. His late-blossoming career took off after his parents bought him a camper van, which he lived in and used to travel to tournaments around Europe, living off his winnings. PAGE D4
 YANKEES DEFEAT METS
 Mark Teixeira, who came into the Yankees' game against the Mets batting .224, hit his second home run in as many days, a grand slam off Johan Santana in the third inning. C. C. Sabathia made it stand up in a 4-0 victory over the Mets in the Bronx. PAGE D1 World Cup Previews D3
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27
 ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A27
 Online
 Two Times journalists, Charles McGrath and Sam Tanenhaus, talk about the release of some of John Updike's private papers, which show him as a driven, competitive author, a portrait that contrasts with his public persona. 
 nytimes.com/artsbeat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SMOKING (87%); RELIGION (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); SMOKING BANS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); SEX OFFENSES (63%); SMOKING CESSATION (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); LASHKAR GAH, AFGHANISTAN (79%) KYRGYZSTAN (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EGYPT (92%); POLAND (91%); HOLY SEE (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



587 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Today's Feminist: A Different Breed?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Ross Douthat ends his June 14 column, ''No Mystique About Feminism,'' with the assertion that the emergence of the most recent round of conservative victories is a happy consequence of the victories of the women's movement. He is right: the women who won this month have the feminist movement, and especially the '70s liberal wave of feminism, to thank for opening the public world of politics to women.
 What gets lost in Mr. Douthat's analysis is the slippery slope that we may find ourselves on if the policies that made it possible for Carly Fiorina et al. are not supported going forward. Women must have choices about how many children they can support, affordable child care options and the ability to earn a living that will allow more of them to run for office and lead in other sectors as well. 
 Women make up only 17 percent of political leaders today, and the White House Project's most recent research, ''Benchmarking Women's Leadership,'' shows that across 10 sectors of American culture, women on average are only 18 percent of its leaders. If the full range of health, economic and safety options is not supported by the women who advance, then they will pull the ladder up behind them.
 Marie C. Wilson President and Founder The White House Project New York, June 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Ross Douthat's notion of feminism doesn't square at all with the movement that emerged under that name in the 1970s. The campaign then was for legal, social and economic equality, to be sure, but the existential fight was never for the freedom to be as self-interested and testosterone-maddened as the average man.
 The thinking was that once women entered the public sphere, the world would be a markedly more civilized place -- perhaps as a natural outgrowth of a woman's ability to bear and care for children.
 Call the advent of Sarah Palin and her ilk a victory for feminism if you must, but it's a disaster for humanity.
 Bill Adler New York, June 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 I completely agree with Ross Douthat that the recent electoral victories for women are a clear boost for feminism. After all, at its core, feminism seeks opportunities and rewards for women equal to those of men. Nobody expects men to act as a monolith, holding the same core values and beliefs. Why should we expect monolithic women?
 It is precisely the diversity of viewpoints that signals the true rise of women in power that Mr. Douthat observes. And by this logic, yes, that means the rise of Sarah Palin is a boost for feminism.
 Scott M. Auerbach Goleta, Calif., June 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Ross Douthat speaks of the ''peculiar left-wing misogyny that greeted Palin's candidacy.'' Not so. So far as I'm able to tell, criticisms of Sarah Palin center on her unfortunate and confused locutions, her manifest deficiency of intellectual curiosity and her tendentious claims on behalf of evident falsehoods -- for example, death panels. None of these have anything to do with her gender, of course.
 Cary Tucker Chicago, June 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Electing women who hold jobs to public office by no means signals Republican support for ''working mothers.''
 A party that refuses to support increases in the minimum wage and opposes paid maternity leave, expansions in health care, and government support for child care, housing and other social welfare programs actively undermines parents' abilities to combine employment with family responsibilities.
 Lisa Levenstein Greensboro, N.C., June 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 What's missing from the ideology of the recently successful conservative Republican women is sisterhood. Feminists have differed on means and issues, but they have substantially agreed that women must work on one another's behalf and can only advance together.
 Conservative Republicans, male or female, aren't interested in improving the chances of anyone but themselves. That's not feminism, but self-interest.
 Martha Tomhave Blauvelt St. Joseph, Minn., June 14, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RUTH GWILY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WOMEN (89%); CHILDREN (88%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CHILD CARE (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010



588 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign for M&Ms With a Salty Center? Sweet

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
FOR those who like a bit of salt and crunch in their chocolate, M&Ms has a new twist on its 69-year-old candy classic. The company put a nugget of pretzel inside its candy, to cater to the growing consumer taste for mixing sweet and salty flavors. 
 The campaign for its new variety -- a pretzel nugget covered in milk chocolate, then coated with a colored candy shell -- has a strong emphasis on digital and social media outlets and caters to younger consumers. Mars Chocolate North America, which makes M&Ms, is sponsoring the current ''American Idol'' tour, with this year's winner, Lee DeWyze, and the nine finalists performing in 49 cities nationwide. 
 The promotion, which includes television and movie theater commercials and print advertisements, ''is our biggest launch in a decade in both dollars and reach,'' said Carole Walker, vice president for Mars's integrated marketing communications group.
 Privately owned Mars, which also makes such brands as Snickers and Skittles, declined to reveal what the company is spending to introduce the product. The promotion has included distributing five million samples on college campuses and at amusement parks, concerts, stadiums as well appearing on the Nascar driver Kyle Busch's car during two Sprint Cup races.
 Mars preceded the campaign's official beginning this month with an introduction in April of its bite-size pretzel M&Ms on its Facebook page, which has some 700,000 users. Fans could sign up to have a free sample bag of the candy mailed to them. 
 ''We seeded the market early, and Facebook was so popular that we ran out of samples,'' said Lauren Connolly, creative director of BBDO New York, part of Omnicom, which has been the advertising agency for M&Ms since 1995.
 One early review, on the site Candyblog.net, came to a mixed conclusion about the pretzel M&Ms, praising them as ''crunchy, a little salty and sweet.'' Over all, the review said, ''they're a great addition to the line and more snack than dessert'' -- an assessment that should please Mars. 
 While chocolate is selling steadily in the troubled economy -- chocolate sales increased 4 percent from mid-May 2009 to the same period this year, according to data from the National Confectioners Association -- the market for salty snacks is growing at a significantly greater rate, according to Mintel, the marketing research firm.
 Salty snack sales reached an estimated $17.7 billion last year, increasing more than 15 percent from 2007 to 2009, according to Mintel. Strong sales have been bolstered by cost-conscious consumers, Mintel said, because salty snacks like pretzels and chips cost ''considerably less per serving than many other snack options,'' such as cereal bars, yogurt and fresh fruit.
 The National Confectioners Association, in its 2009 candy trend forecast, predicted more sweet and savory combinations, meaning chocolate combined with other flavors.
 The new Mars entry will be part of that trend, Ms. Walker said.
 Mars executives say they would like to broaden the appeal of pretzel M&Ms to include more informal, and more frequent, occasions -- ''where chips and pretzels would be served,'' Ms. Walker said.
 The pretzel M&M campaign brings back Orange, the M&M ''spokescandy'' that used to advertise crispy M&Ms. In the new ''Listen Buddy'' commercial, Orange appears in a laboratory setting along with a new sidekick, Mr. Pretzel. 
 The bumptious Orange protests greatly when he discovers that he is going to have a pretzel placed inside of him, but to no avail. The humorous spot closes with an X-ray showing Orange with a knotted pretzel at his center. 
 ''Orange had been on hiatus, and this was a perfect opportunity to bring him back,'' Ms. Connolly said. ''He's neurotic and feels everyone is out to eat him personally. His character is the perfect marriage for the pretzel product.'' 
 The use of the cartoonish Orange, as well as the emphasis on digital media, is meant to appeal to young people, who are the biggest consumers of salty snacks. 
 Mars reached that audience when the ''American Idol'' finalists began the pretzel M&M concert tour this month in New York City. Pretzel M&Ms will be advertised on signs and banners in cities where the tour appears, Ms. Walker said.
 The campaign, which also includes mobile ads, is not neglecting traditional media outlets. On television, commercials are appearing during coverage of the World Cup, and on ''Rachael Ray,'' Fox's ''Hell's Kitchen,'' TNT's ''Southland,'' NBC's ''America's Got Talent'' and ABC's ''Happy Town.'' Commercials also will appear on Spanish-language networks like Univision, Telefutura, Telemundo, Galavision and Discovery en Espanol. 
 Print outlets include the magazines People, Entertainment Weekly, US Weekly, ESPN, Sports Illustrated, Better Homes and Gardens, Ebony, Parents and Woman's Day.
 Pretzels are the latest flavor to be featured inside M&M candies, which were first produced in 1941. Mars introduced coconut on a temporary basis last year, and now has added it to its permanent roster, Ms. Walker said. The six other flavors are plain, peanut, peanut butter, dark chocolate, dark chocolate peanut and almond. Mars also partnered with the MSN division of Microsoft for a new online site, behindtheshell.msn.com, that features a series of 12 videos called ''Behind the Shell.'' The first of the series is a report about the popular sitcom ''The Office.''
 The three-minute video opens with the series host, Carson Daly, also the host of NBC's ''Last Call With Carson Daly,'' telling Orange that the series will include behind-the-scenes reports on fashion, sports, music and food. ''The only thing behind my shell is a pretzel,'' Orange laments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orange, an M&M character, is not thrilled to hear he will have a pretzel center. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); SNACK FOODS (89%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); SNACK FOOD MFG (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); NASCAR RACING (65%)

COMPANY: MARS INC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); BBDO NEW YORK (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



589 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Battles in California Over Escaping a Mortgage Debt

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
As the housing market continues to sputter, the real estate industry is increasingly split on the responsibilities of overextended and foreclosed homeowners.
 On one side are the bankers, who say borrowers should be liable for what they owe. On the other side are real estate agents, who say those who lost their houses should not be so burdened by debt that they cannot move on.
 The differences have real financial consequences: bankers want to collect on billions of dollars in outstanding loans; real estate agents want as many people as possible to return to the housing market.
 For the first time, the debate is spilling into the realm of law making, with state legislators in California considering a bill that would redefine the obligations of many defaulting homeowners. The efforts to shape the bill demonstrate how much is at stake -- in California and the many other states with distressed real estate markets. 
 The legislation introduced in the winter by the real estate lobby would have largely shielded foreclosed homeowners from debt collectors. But by the time it passed the state Senate on June 3, the banking lobby had succeeded in scaling it back. Now the bill goes to the state Assembly, where a committee will take it up next week, and bankers intend to continue lobbying.
 ''We're concerned this could adversely accelerate strategic defaults,'' said Rodney K. Brown, chief executive of the California Bankers Association, referring to instances in which borrowers leave their properties without settling with the lender. 
 For years, a house in California was a machine for building wealth, and few were the families that could resist temptation. They refinanced their loans to pay for vacations, operations, tuition or, frequently, investments in more houses. Many of these households ended up struggling after the crash.
 The lenders were often aggressive in making loans and frequently were predatory. The extent to which this absolves the borrowers of responsibility is at the center of the current debate.
 The original legislation said borrowers who took cash out of their houses would be shielded as long as they used the money for home improvements. In its current form, the proposed law is not quite so forgiving.
 The bill that passed the Senate by a lopsided vote of 30 to 4 would protect former homeowners up to the amount of their original loan. For instance, a family that took out a $500,000 mortgage to buy a house and then refinanced and took cash out, swelling their loan to $600,000, would be released from claims on the original sum but remain vulnerable on the $100,000.
 Ellen M. Corbett, the Democratic state senator from San Leandro, Calif., east of San Francisco, who introduced the measure, said it is a matter of fairness. 
 During the Depression, she said, California legislators decided that losing your house was punishment enough. They did not want lenders endlessly hounding borrowers for the difference between what they owed and what their former house was worth, an amount called the deficiency.
 Seventy-five years later, because of that law, anyone who has an original loan and wants to get rid of the house because it has fallen in value can simply walk away without further legal jeopardy. But a homeowner who refinanced, even for the straightforward reason of getting a lower interest rate, could in theory lose the house and be pursued for the deficiency.
 ''I don't believe the original intent was to have a two-tier system, where some were protected and some were not,'' Ms. Corbett said.
 The agents, too, say this is a fairness issue. But there is also self-interest involved.
 ''Realtors are very worried about this because they think it will destroy the housing market if people end up with these huge deficiency judgments and are never able to buy a house again,'' Ms. Corbett said.
 To some extent, this is a fight over something that is not happening, at least not yet.
 Lenders in California rarely chase foreclosed borrowers for deficiency judgments. Pursuing such cases in court can be an arduous process, and few of those in foreclosure have the assets or incomes to make it worthwhile.
 But the threat of such action can come in handy for lenders, servicers and collection agencies. By raising the possibility of a court fight, they can negotiate favorable terms when agreeing to loan modifications and workouts, surrenders of deeds and sales for less than the full amount owed, also known as short sales. 
 ''Using the threat of a deficiency, full-recourse lenders often prevail upon distressed borrowers to sign new, unsecured obligations in exchange for their assent to a proposed short sale or surrender of a deed,'' said William A. Markham, a lawyer with Maldonado & Markham in San Diego. ''This practice will nearly vanish overnight if the new measure becomes law.''
 About a third of the seven million California households with a mortgage have negative equity, a condition known as being underwater, according to the research firm CoreLogic. Many of these families might be content to wait years for a rebound in real estate but others, if at least partly freed from deficiency worries, might walk away.
 ''This will lead to a surge in the supply of housing, a corresponding decrease in the price, and a welcome hastening of the end of the foreclosure crisis in California,'' Mr. Markham said.
 State Senator Mimi Walters, a first-term Republican representing Laguna Niguel, north of San Diego, voted against the measure precisely because it could encourage more defaults.
 ''I'm very sympathetic to what's going on in the economy and to people that are losing their homes,'' said Ms. Walters, a former executive with two Wall Street firms. ''But we have to be careful not to overleverage ourselves and to take responsibility when making investments.''
 The banking lobby says it could accept the bill as is, on one condition: that it apply only to new loans. In its current form, it applies to any existing loan.
 ''We really don't want the legislature redoing contracts,'' said Mr. Brown of the California Bankers Association. ''That sends a bad signal to investors, to markets and to those whom we extended the credit.''
 Whatever the fate of this particular bill, the issue of responsibility for debt is unlikely to be resolved anytime soon. New government-mandated modification programs that for the first time will reduce borrowers' debts will go into effect this fall, sparking another round of debate about who gets help and who does not.
 ''We're a little in the Wild West here,'' said Paul Leonard, California office director of the Center for Responsible Lending. ''People are struggling with what it means to uphold the terms of your mortgage contract and what it means to walk away. There are no tried and true rules.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A foreclosed home in Richmond, Calif., a state where property drove wealth. (B1)
 Wells Fargo offered free help for troubled homeowners during a workshop in Oakland, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); FAMILY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (76%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



590 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Shares Pull Back In Late Trading

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States ended slightly lower on Monday, reversing a surge that came after the Chinese currency strengthened to its highest level in nearly two years.
 Stocks had opened higher, following other global markets, and sustained their rise until the last hour of trading, when they slipped into the red. Shares in technology companies, utilities and companies that are dependent on consumers' discretionary spending closed lower, while the industrials and materials sectors managed to hold their ground. 
 The jump in stocks just after the opening had been expected after China's remarks on Saturday that it would ''proceed further with reform'' of its exchange rate system and improve its flexibility. 
 But the enthusiasm waned by the end of the day, despite the strengthening of China's currency, the renminbi. It was its biggest one-day move since 2005 and an early indication that China would allow the gradual rise in the currency, at which the country had hinted. 
 Officials in countries like Japan, Thailand and Germany hailed China's pledge as a potential boon to their exports and national economies. Asian and European markets rose. 
 But some analysts said more details were needed about China's plans and whether the currency's move would encourage China to consume more of the world's goods.
 Bill Schultz, chief investment officer for McQueen, Ball & Associates, said China might have made its move to appease United States regulators before the Group of 20 summit meeting this week. 
 ''There is a bit of gamesmanship going on,'' Mr. Schultz said. The market was affected by ''the euphoria of the move, and then a little reality that it may be a little longer, and the effect that it may not be as dramatic as the market thought,'' he said. 
 Stephen P. Wood, chief market strategist for Russell Investments, said that the renminbi's rise would give a lift to trade and to demand for commodities, and that it would improve confidence in China's economic health. 
 ''One of the biggest volatility factors for 2010 has been the lack of visibility,'' Mr. Wood said. ''We are beginning to get some visibility that the Chinese are going to be predominantly successful in engineering a soft landing.''
 Mr. Wood said China's appetite for raw materials could pick up. On Monday, shares in some materials companies rose, including the aluminum producer Alcoa, which was up 61 cents, to $11.72.
 Amazon fell $3.28, to $122.55, after it cut the price of its Kindle e-reader to fend off competition. Google was down $11.47, to $488.56. The Connecticut attorney general said he was leading a multistate investigation into its collection of personal data from wireless networks.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 8.23 points, or 0.08 percent, to close at 10,442.41. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.31 points, 0.39 percent, to 1,113.20. And the Nasdaq composite index was down 20.71 points, or 0.9 percent, at 2,289.09.
 In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed 1.14 percent higher, while the FTSE 100 index added 0.9 percent in London. 
 The leading market index in mainland China rallied 2.9 percent, and Hong Kong's, 3.1 percent. The Nikkei 225 index in Japan closed 2.4 percent higher. 
 Gold futures were down 1.8 percent, closing $1,233.70.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 6/32, to 102 5/32. The yield rose to 3.24 percent, from 3.22 percent late Friday.
 Many economists say they believe the stronger renminbi will increase the purchasing power of ordinary Chinese citizens and companies, helping promote global trade in one of the world's largest markets. China on Monday continued to play down the significance of the renminbi's value in helping to rebalance the global economy. A commentary in the state-run China Daily placed the onus on global leaders to overhaul the global financial system. 
 If leaders do not make progress at the G-20 meeting to overhaul the financial system, ''The international community will soon find to its disappointment that its leaders look only for red herrings, rather than real solutions, at a time when true leadership is badly needed,'' the commentary said. 
 By the close of business in Asia, the renminbi had advanced 0.42 percent, to 6.7976 a dollar. China hardly allowed the currency to budge over the last two years as it tried to promote its exports during the global financial crisis. 
 In a sign that underscored that the authorities in Beijing were in no hurry to initiate marked reform -- a step that might draw criticism at home that they were succumbing to pressure from abroad -- the central bank on Monday left its reference rate for the currency unchanged from Friday's level, at 6.8275 a dollar. 
 Officially, the renminbi is allowed to trade as much as 0.5 percent below or above Beijing's daily reference rate to the dollar, but in reality, the divergence from that level has been much smaller. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A vendor inspected bank notes at a market in Changzhi, China, on Monday, when the renminbi rose against the dollar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (53%); ALCOA INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (70%); THAILAND (70%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



591 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Exporters Optimistic Over Move On Currency

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD; David Barboza contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Embracing China's decision to let its currency move more freely, American businesses said on Monday that the move would make it easier to compete against Chinese companies and would help reduce the United States trade deficit.
 They cautioned, though, that the rise in the currency, the renminbi, is expected to be gradual, even if many American economists say it is 20 to 40 percent undervalued.
 SGI, a California company that makes servers and data storage equipment, looks forward to extra business. 
 ''It's a real opportunity for SGI and other American companies to expand sales to China,'' said Mark Barrenechea, the chief executive. ''Although this will increase some costs for American businesses that source in China, it also means that Chinese businesses can more readily afford American exports.'' 
 Trade experts said the winners would be American companies like General Electric and Caterpillar that export to China, while companies like Wal-Mart and Target that rely on China as a low-cost export platform may be squeezed by rising costs. 
 In fact, costs have already been rising this year because of demands for higher wages among Chinese workers, who are balking at the coastal jobs once coveted as a way out of rural poverty.
 Even though Caterpillar has tractor-making factories in China to serve the local market, the company was quick to praise the country's decision, struck just days ahead of a crucial Group of 20 meeting of nations. That is because along with what it produces there, Caterpillar sells China some of its most sophisticated, and therefore expensive, American-made equipment, including giant bulldozers, large mining trucks and gas turbines.
 ''Presumably, a stronger currency will increase their buying power, and if their economy remains strong, that will inevitably lead to more exports,'' said Jim Dugan, a Caterpillar spokesman.
 As China's goods become more expensive, goods produced in the West will become relatively more attractive, not just in China but around the world. 
 Fred P. Hochberg, chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, said it was hard to predict how much China's currency increase could bolster American exports. ''It depends on how they implement it, what rate of speed and how much it is really market-driven,'' he said. 
 American companies and global companies that count on China to produce goods at a low cost, however, may be hurt by the currency's rise just as they have been suffering from rising labor costs. John Frisbie, president of the United States-China Business Council, cited companies with low-end products, like apparel, shoes and toys, as among those most affected.
 Wages have risen recently in China to help workers keep up with inflation and in response to labor unrest, most notably strikes at several Honda plants and 11 worker suicides at Foxconn Technology's mammoth electronics factory in Shenzhen. 
 Mitch Free, chairman of MFG.com, a company based in Atlanta that helps secure manufacturing for Black & Decker, Whirlpool and Motorola, said Chinese manufacturing prices had risen by 8 percent in the last year, largely because of labor costs. He expects the trend to continue.
 ''They're proactively giving some wage increases,'' Mr. Free said. ''We're seeing people sending messages to the buyers, through the system, saying that they're revising a price or can only hold a price for a short time because they're anticipating wage increases.''
 How much American exports increase depends in part on how much China allows its currency to rise. C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, predicted that if the renminbi rose by 20 percent over the next two or three years, and if adjacent countries like Taiwan and Malaysia similarly let their currencies rise, the United States would lop $100 billion to $150 billion a year from its current account deficit and create up to one million American jobs.
 ''Most of that change would be in exports, not just exports to China, but to Bangladesh, Vietnam and even Mexico,'' Mr. Bergsten said. 
 Mr. Frisbie was more skeptical about the impact on the trade deficit. Neither a stronger renminbi nor higher wages would have much effect on major companies like G.E. or Boeing that have made large investments in China to sell to local consumers, he said. 
 For companies that make products in China for sale elsewhere, however, there will be an incentive to reconsider where their factories are. 
 ''They're the ones who are strategizing to consider other locations,'' Mr. Frisbie said. ''They're the companies that will be impacted most. They're looking at other places with low labor costs, like Vietnam.''
 Other Asian countries could well let their currencies rise along with the renminbi, reducing the potential benefit of transferring operations out of China.
 Still, some companies may decide to continue diversifying their suppliers, said Hana Ben-Shabat, who oversees A. T. Kearney's global-retail index. 
 ''Companies will spread their bets among different countries instead of being so attached to getting a large proportion of their goods out of China,'' she said.
 She said she did not expect a wave of moves to lower-wage countries because labor costs make up only 15 to 20 percent of apparel costs. ''Cost of labor in Bangladesh is way lower than China,'' she said, but given other costs like shipping, ''the same garment could cost much more out of Bangladesh than in China.''
 At one big company, Li & Fung, which does work for Wal-Mart and Liz Claiborne, among others, the president, Bruce Rockowitz, said China was still attractive. ''This is not the end of China, but it's the end of lower prices,'' he said. 
 Clyde Prestowitz, president of the American Strategy Institute and author of ''The Betrayal of American Prosperity,'' said he expected no rush out of China by American companies.
 ''In fact, I see important guys going in, like Intel and Applied Materials,'' both semiconductor manufacturers, he said. ''Foreign companies are obviously concerned, but I haven't seen anybody except Google talk seriously about getting out. It's a big market that's going to get bigger.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Barrenechea of SGI sees opportunity for his company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMASZ PRZYGODA)
 An assembly line in East Peoria, Ill. Caterpillar produces in China but also sells some American-made equipment there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CATERPILLAR) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (68%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (56%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); HON HAI PRECISION INDUSTRY CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); HHPD (LSE) (50%); 2317 (TAIEX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



592 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Cigarette Tax Is Increased To Keep New York Running

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
ALBANY -- New Yorkers who like to smoke will have to dig a little deeper to light up next month, after the Legislature passed a bill on Monday that will give the state the highest cigarette taxes in the country. 
 The new law, part of an emergency budget measure to keep the government running, adds another $1.60 in state taxes to every cigarette pack sold starting on July 1, pushing the average price of a pack to about $9.20. 
 The average price in New York City, which imposes its own cigarette taxes, will be even higher, nearly $11 a pack.
 Those who prefer other tobacco products will also be forced to pay significantly more. 
 The tax on smokeless tobacco will more than double, to $2 an ounce from 96 cents an ounce, starting on Aug. 1. And the wholesale tax on cigars, dips and other kinds of tobacco will rise to 75 percent from 46 percent .
 And in what may be the legislation's most controversial provisions, starting on Sept. 1, the state will begin collecting -- or try to collect -- taxes on cigarettes sold on Indian reservations to off-reservation visitors, an issue that led to violent protests during the early 1990s. 
 One Indian chief has said that trying to collect taxes would be considered an act of war.
 Gov. David A. Paterson had proposed a smaller increase of $1 a pack in his executive budget proposal, saying it would forestall deeper cuts to state health care spending. But with the state budget now nearly three months overdue, Mr. Paterson and leaders of the Legislature agreed to insert the revised proposal into a pair of emergency bills to finance a week's worth of government operations, putting pressure on lawmakers to support or risk a government shutdown.
 The taxes will provide $440 million in revenue for health care programs, including subsidies for AIDS drugs, money for tobacco cessation programs and $71.6 million for the state cancer research center in Buffalo.
 In the Senate, where Republicans and many rank-and-file Democrats had opposed the tax increase, the bill including the higher taxes passed narrowly along party lines, with all 32 Democrats voting yes and all 29 Republicans present voting no. 
 As for the other emergency bill, which included only appropriations, one Republican, Roy J. McDonald, joined the Democrats in voting yes.
 The two bills also passed with only a few votes to spare in the Assembly, where Republicans assailed their Democratic colleagues.
 ''You've never met a tax you didn't like,'' Assemblyman Jim Hayes, a Republican from the Buffalo area, said to Democrats. ''The governor proposed a buck. You hiked it to a buck-sixty!''
 But Democrats said that the bill would provide needed revenue and begin closing a legal loophole that let New Yorkers buy cigarettes tax-free on reservations, undercutting other retailers.
 ''Because of the step we took in the Senate today, New York State will now have the added muscle it needs to collect this vital source of tax revenue in full and on time,'' said Jeffrey D. Klein, a Democrat from Westchester County and the Bronx who had pushed separate legislation enabling the collection of cigarette taxes from reservations.
 Higher cigarette taxes have been hailed by health advocates who say they will persuade many smokers to give up their habit. But critics, including tobacco retailers, said they would drive more customers to the black market. 
 It was the 12th emergency bill approved since the state's fiscal year began on April 1. Mr. Paterson has pledged that if the Legislature fails to reach a budget agreement by next Monday, when the next emergency bill is due, he will insert the remainder of his budget proposal into that legislation. 
 The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, told reporters that he remained confident that budget negotiations were progressing. ''I think they're going well -- maybe a little slower than I anticipated last week, but I think they're going well,'' he said.
 Reflecting the secrecy of the negotiations between Mr. Paterson and the Democratic majorities in the Senate and Assembly, Republican senators repeatedly pressed Democrats during a floor debate to explain how they would make up the rest of the gap -- roughly $3.65 billion, according to Senate Democrats. They also accused Democrats of negotiating the budget piecemeal to hide the true cost of their budget priorities and lay the groundwork to claim that only new borrowing or higher income taxes could bring the budget into balance. 
 ''I just don't see how this process is going to result in anything other than taxes and fees and borrowing,'' said John A. DeFrancisco, the Senate Finance Committee's ranking Republican member. ''This is not a way to run state government.''
 The Senate also appeared poised on Monday night to approve a series of other budget bills introduced by Mr. Paterson last week and approved by the Assembly on Friday. Those bills involve spending for the criminal justice system, general government operations, the Transportation Department and state economic development efforts.
 Officials said those bills closed about $1 billion worth of the state's budget gap of more than $9 billion for this year, achieved through a mix of cuts, new revenue and consolidations.
 One of the largest cuts would result in New York City's losing its entire allotment of direct state aid, about $302 million. The bills would also close two upstate prisons, while the State Police would delay, for the second year in a row, training a new class of recruits.
 The bills also include what are known as ''sweeps,'' where lawmakers in effect take money out of accounts that aren't technically part of the state's budget. For example, the legislation will transfer $65 million from the New York Power Authority into the state's general fund.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, with reporters on Monday, said the bill would give New York ''the added muscle it needs to collect this vital source of tax revenue in full and on time.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); AIDS & HIV (65%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (64%); CANCER (62%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



593 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Faustus Makes A Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
It was the winter of 2007. Dr. Faustus, the famous left-wing philologist, was sitting in a coffee shop in despair over the Bush-Cheney regime and the future of his country.
 Suddenly, Mephistopheles, who happened to be the provost at his college, appeared, sipping a double mocha frappuccino. He sat down next to Dr. Faustus and casually asked him if he would like to be granted any five wishes in exchange for his immortal soul.
 This was Dr. Faustus's chance to do something grand for his country. He would lose his soul, but if he chose wisely, he could make the United States a bastion of liberalism forevermore. 
 ''I agree, Lord of Darkness, if you grant me the following wishes: First, I would like the nation to be hurled into an economic crisis caused by Wall Street greed and recklessness. This will discredit free-market fundamentalism once and for all.''
 ''It will be done,'' Mephistopheles vowed.
 ''Then I would like you to find the smartest Democratic politician in the land and make him president.''
 ''It will be done.''
 ''Then I would like you to create a political climate so he can immediately enact an $800 billion spending package. This will avert economic collapse and show the American people how effective government can be.''
 ''It will be done.''
 ''Then I would like the Democrats to pass a universal health care law. This will show a grateful nation that government can provide basic security.''
 ''It will be done.''
 ''If you do all this, America will be transformed. Conservatism will be in retreat and liberalism will reign supreme! Just to be sure, I would like a multinational oil company to cause the biggest environmental disaster in American history. This will completely discredit corporate America and remind people why they need strong regulations and global warming legislation.''
 ''It will be done.''
 And, indeed, everything Dr. Faustus wished for came to pass. Yet he watched events unfold with growing horror. Not in 70 years had there been a sequence of events so perfectly designed to fortify liberalism. Yet the country wasn't swinging to the left; it was swinging to the right!
 Surveys showed public opinion drifting rightward on issue after issue: gun control, abortion, global warming and the role of government. Far from leading Americans, Democrats were repelling them. Between 2008 and 2010 the share of voters who considered the Democrats too liberal surged from 39 percent to 49 percent, according to Gallup surveys.
 Prospects for the 2010 election are grim. Election guru Charlie Cook suspects the G.O.P. will retake the House. N.P.R. polled voters in the 60 most competitive House districts currently held by Democrats. Democrats trail Republicans in those districts, on average, by 5 percentage points. Independent voters in the districts favor Republicans by an average of 18 percentage points.
 By 57 percent to 37 percent, voters in these districts embrace the proposition that ''President Obama's economic policies have run up a record federal deficit while failing to end the recession or slow the record pace of job losses.''
 Instead of building faith in government, the events of 2009 and 2010 further undermined it. An absurdly low 6 percent of Americans acknowledge that the stimulus package created jobs, according to a New York Times/CBS survey.
 Some Kool-Aid sippers on the left say the problem is that Republicans have better messaging (somehow John Boehner became magically charismatic to independents). Others say the shift to the right is a product of bad economic times. But Dr. Faustus saw a deeper truth. Moderate suburban voters do not see the world as liberals do, even in the most propitious circumstances, and never will.
 Bitterly and too late, Dr. Faustus saw that liberals can't have their way and still win elections in places like North Carolina, Ohio and Missouri. Bitterly and too late, Dr. Faustus recognized that economic policies are about values. If your policies undermine personal responsibility by separating the link between effort and reward, voters will punish you for it.
 Bitterly and too late, Dr. Faustus acknowledged that after a period of overconsumption, Americans now see debt as the primary threat to their well-being. Dr. Faust and his fellow liberals may see themselves as the champions of the little guy, but in the new age of austerity, many voters see them as protectors of the special interests, as the guardians of the unaffordable promises.
 Republicans have their own problems. They've begun over-reading their ideological mandate without the usual intervening step of actually winning an election. But the big story is that liberals have failed to create a governing center-left majority. If they can't do it in circumstances like these, when will they ever?
 Dr. Faustus fell back into despair. His soul will spend all eternity trapped in Glenn Beck's microphone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); GUN CONTROL (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); HISTORY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



594 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: In Law Schools, Grades Go Up, Just Like That

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
One day next month every student at Loyola Law School Los Angeles will awake to a higher grade point average. 
 But it's not because they are all working harder.
 The school is retroactively inflating its grades, tacking on 0.333 to every grade recorded in the last few years. The goal is to make its students look more attractive in a competitive job market.
 In the last two years, at least 10 law schools have deliberately changed their grading systems to make them more lenient. These include law schools like New York University and Georgetown, as well as Golden Gate University and Tulane University, which just announced the change this month. Some recruiters at law firms keep track of these changes and consider them when interviewing, and some do not.
 Law schools seem to view higher grades as one way to rescue their students from the tough economic climate -- and perhaps more to the point, to protect their own reputations and rankings. Once able to practically guarantee gainful employment to thousands of students every year, the schools are now fielding complaints from more and more unemployed graduates, frequently drowning in student debt. 
 They have come up with a number of strategic responses. Besides the usual career counseling measures, many top schools have bumped up their on-campus interview weeks from the autumn to August, before the school year even starts, because they want their students to have a chance to nab a job slot before their counterparts at other schools do.
 Others, like Duke and the University of Texas at Austin, offer stipends for students to take unpaid public interest internships. Southern Methodist University's Dedman School of Law even recently began paying profit-making law firms to hire its students. 
 ''For people like me who have good grades but are not in the super-elite, there are not as many options for getting a job in advance,'' said Zachary Burd, 35, who just graduated from Southern Methodist University. A Dallas family law firm will receive $3,500 to ''test drive'' him this August. 
 ''They'll get me for a month or two, for free, to try me out,'' he said. ''It's safer for them, and it's a good foot in the door for me.''
 But the tactic getting the most attention -- and the most controversy -- is the sudden, deliberate and dubiously effective grade inflation, which had begun even before the legal job market softened.
 ''If somebody's paying $150,000 for a law school degree, you don't want to call them a loser at the end,'' says Stuart Rojstaczer, a former geophysics professor at Duke who now studies grade inflation. ''So you artificially call every student a success.''
 Unlike undergraduate grading, which has drifted northward over the years because most undergraduate campuses do not strictly regulate the schoolwide distribution of As and Bs, law schools have long employed clean, crisp, bell-shaped grading curves. Many law schools even use computers to mathematically determine cutoffs between a B+ and a B, based on exam points. 
 The process schools refer to as grade reform takes many forms. Some schools bump up everyone's grades, some just allow for more As and others all but eliminate the once-gentlemanly C.
 Harvard and Stanford, two of the top-ranked law schools, recently eliminated traditional grading altogether. Like Yale and the University of California, Berkeley, they now use a modified pass/fail system, reducing the pressure that law schools are notorious for. This new grading system also makes it harder for employers to distinguish the wheat from the chaff, which means more students can get a shot at a competitive interview.
 Students and faculty say they are merely trying to stay competitive with their peer schools, which have more merciful grading curves. Loyola, for example, had a mean first-year grade of 2.667; the norm for other accredited California schools is generally a 3.0 or higher. 
 ''That put our students at an unfair disadvantage, especially if you factor in the current economic environment,'' says Samuel Liu, 26, president of the school's Student Bar Association and the leader of the grading change efforts. He also says many Loyola students are ineligible for coveted clerkships that have strict G.P.A. cutoffs.
 ''We just wanted to match what other schools that are comparably ranked were already doing,'' he said.
 Nearby University of California, Los Angeles, made its grading curve more lenient in the fall of 2005, in part to keep up with ''nationwide shifts in grading,'' said Elizabeth Cheadle, the dean of students at U.C.L.A.'s law school. 
 The University of Southern California and the University of California Hastings College of the Law responded by increasing their own curves last school year. 
 What's more, U.S.C.'s law school dean, Robert K. Rasmussen, said he was partly inspired by the school where he previously worked, Vanderbilt University Law School, which had also changed its curve a few years ago.
 These moves can create a vicious cycle like that seen in chief executive pay: if every school in the bottom half of the distribution raises its marks to enter the top half of the distribution, or even just to become average, the average creeps up. This puts pressure on schools to keep raising their grades further. 
 Loyola Law School's dean, Victor J. Gold, said he had already received a plea for advice from a student group at Chapman University School of Law, which will have the toughest grading curve in California after Loyola acts.
 One notable school has managed to maintain the integrity of its grades through an idiosyncratic grading rubric. The University of Chicago Law School grades its students on a scale of 155-186, a system so bizarre that employers are unlikely to try to match it against the 4.0 scale or letter grades used almost everywhere else.
 It is unclear whether grade inflation is particularly effective at helping students get jobs, especially because many large firms adjust their expectations accordingly.
 Many hiring partners say they read Above the Law, a legal blog, that gleefully reports (and mocks) grade changing efforts -- from leaked student memos -- even when schools themselves don't announce the changes. 
 Employers say they also press law schools for rankings, or some indication of G.P.A.'s for the top echelon of the class. And if the school will not release that information -- many do not -- other accolades like honors and law journal participation provide clues to a student's relative rank. 
 ''Every year we do our homework,'' says Helen Long, the legal recruiting director at Ropes & Gray, a firm with more than 1,000 lawyers. ''And besides, if a school had a remarkable jump in its G.P.A.'s from one year to the next, we receive a big enough group of resumes every year that we'd probably notice.''
 Smaller firms, however, may not have the resources to research every school's curve, and may see too few students from any given school to track changes from year to year.
 James Wagner, the hiring partner at the 29-lawyer Boston firm Conn Kavanaugh Rosenthal Peisch & Ford, said he hadn't noticed any grade inflation in the last couple of years. But he has noticed something else new from applicants.
 ''About a third to half of the resumes I've been getting now profess a love of the Red Sox,'' he chuckles, wondering if the students had been coached by their schools. 
 ''But I'll bet that if you compared resumes for those same candidates,'' he says, ''when they apply to New York firms they love the Yankees, and for Chicago firms, it's the Cubs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samuel Liu, right, of Loyola Law School Los Angeles, which is adding 0.333 to every grade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Dallas law firm will be paid for employing Zachary Burd, who graduated from Southern Methodist University's law school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (94%); GRADES & GRADING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); RANKINGS (72%); FAMILY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); FAMILY LAW (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (59%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



595 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Money Financing Afghan Warlords for Convoy Protection, Report Says

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- American taxpayers have inadvertently created a network of warlords across Afghanistan who are making millions of dollars escorting NATO convoys and operating outside the control of either the Afghan government or the American and NATO militaries, according to the results of a Congressional investigation released Monday.
 The investigation, begun last year by the House Subcommittee for National Security, found that money given to these Afghan warlords often amounts to little more than mafia-style protection payments, with some NATO convoys that refused to pay the warlords coming under attack. 
 The subcommittee, led by Representative John F. Tierney, Democrat of Massachusetts, also uncovered evidence suggesting that American taxpayer money is making its way to the Taliban. Several trucking company supervisors told investigators that they believed the gunmen they hired to escort their convoys bribed the Taliban not to attack. 
 The warlords who are paid with American money, the investigators said, are undermining the legitimate Afghan government that Americans soldiers and Marines are struggling to build, and will most likely threaten the government long after the Americans and NATO leave.
 The source of the taxpayer money is a $2.1 billion contract called Host Nation Trucking, which pays for the movement of food and supplies to some 200 American bases across this arid, mountainous country, which in many places has no paved roads.
 The 79-page report, entitled ''Warlord Inc.,'' paints an anarchic picture of contemporary Afghanistan, with the country's major highways being controlled by groups of freelance gunmen who answer to no one -- and who are being paid for by the United States.
 Afghanistan, the investigation found, plays host to hundreds of unregistered private security companies employing as many as 70,000 largely unsupervised gunmen.
 ''The principal private security subcontractors,'' the report said, ''are warlords, strongmen, commanders and militia leaders who compete with the Afghan central government for power and authority.
 ''The warlords thrive in a vacuum of government authority, and their interests are in fundamental conflict with U.S. aims to build a strong Afghan government,'' the report said.
 At the heart of the problem, the investigation found, is that the American military pays trucking companies to move its supplies across Afghanistan -- and leaves it up to the trucking companies to protect themselves. The trucking companies in turn pay warlords and commanders to provide security.
 These subcontracts, the investigation found, are handed out without any oversight from the Department of Defense, despite clear instructions from Congress that the department provide such oversight. The report states that military officers in Kabul had little idea whom the trucking companies were paying to provide security or how much they spent for it, and had rarely if ever inspected a convoy to find out.
 The report recommends that the military award the trucking contracts and security contracts separately. 
 It also lists a number of warlords who control stretches of road in Afghanistan: Ruhullah, who like many Afghans goes by one name, has a reputation for dealing ruthlessly with the villages along the highways he controls; Matiulllah Khan, whose 2,000-man militia controls the road between Kandahar and Tirinkot; and Abdul Razziq, the commander of the border police in Spin Boldak, one of the principal trucking routes into the country.
 Mr. Ruhullah commands a force of about 600 gunmen that works for Watan Risk Management, a security firm overseen by Rashid and Rateb Popal, who are cousins of President Hamid Karzai. In an interview last month, Rashid Popal denied that his company had paid any money to Taliban insurgents.
 The report said Watan Risk Management and Mr. Ruhullah have been paid ''several tens of millions of dollars'' to escort NATO convoys. 
 ''Long after the United States leaves Afghanistan, and the convoy security business shuts down, these warlords will likely continue to play a major role as autonomous centers of political, economic and military power,'' the report said.
 The report detailed episodes when trucking companies that refused to pay warlords to escort their trucks were attacked by the same men. A trucking company executive who refused to pay Mr. Ruhullah told investigators that his trucks were attacked by Mr. Ruhullah's fighters. Mr. Ruhullah, the executive said, ''is willing to ruthlessly exploit the lack of military control along the routes on which he operates.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TRUCKING (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (71%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



596 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Chimps That Wage War And Annex Rival Territory

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
Every day, John Mitani or a colleague is up at sunrise to check on the action among the chimpanzees at Ngogo, in Uganda's Kibale National Park. Most days the male chimps behave a lot like frat boys, making a lot of noise or beating each other up. But once every 10 to 14 days, they do something more adult and cooperative: they wage war.
 A band of males, up to 20 or so, will assemble in single file and move to the edge of their territory. They fall into unusual silence as they penetrate deep into the area controlled by the neighboring group. They tensely scan the treetops and startle at every noise. ''It's quite clear that they are looking for individuals of the other community,'' Dr. Mitani says.
 When the enemy is encountered, the patrol's reaction depends on its assessment of the opposing force. If they seem to be outnumbered, members of the patrol will break file and bolt back to home territory. But if a single chimp has wandered into their path, they will attack. Enemy males will be held down, then bitten and battered to death. Females are usually let go, but their babies will be eaten. 
 These killings have a purpose, but one that did not emerge until after Ngogo chimps' patrols had been tracked and cataloged for 10 years. The Ngogo group has about 150 chimps and is particularly large, about three times the usual size. And its size makes it unusually aggressive. Its males directed most of their patrols against a chimp group that lived in a region to the northeast of their territory. Last year, the Ngogo chimps stopped patrolling the region and annexed it outright, increasing their home territory by 22 percent, Dr. Mitani said in a report being published Tuesday in Current Biology with his colleagues David P. Watts of Yale University and Sylvia J. Amsler of the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. Dr. Mitani is at the University of Michigan.
 The objective of the 10-year campaign was clearly to capture territory, the researchers concluded. The Ngogo males could control more fruit trees, their females would have more to eat and so would reproduce faster, and the group would grow larger, stronger and more likely to survive. The chimps' waging of war is thus ''adaptive,'' Dr. Mitani and his colleagues concluded, meaning that natural selection has wired the behavior into the chimps' neural circuitry because it promotes their survival.
 Chimpanzee warfare is of particular interest because of the possibility that both humans and chimps inherited an instinct for aggressive territoriality from their joint ancestor who lived some five million years ago. Only two previous cases of chimp warfare have been recorded, neither as clear-cut as the Ngogo case. 
 In one, a chimp community first observed by Jane Goodall in Tanzania's Gombe National Park split into two and one group then wiped out the other. But the chimps had been fed bananas, to enable them to be observed, and some primatologists blamed the war on this human intervention. In a second case, in the Mahale Mountains National Park of Tanzania, Toshisada Nishida of Kyoto University noticed that a chimp group had disappeared, presumably killed by its neighbors, but he was not able to witness the killings or find the bodies.
 Dr. Mitani's team has now put a full picture together by following chimps on their patrols, witnessing 18 fatal attacks over 10 years and establishing that the warfare led to annexation of a neighbor's territory.
 The benefits of chimp warfare are clear enough, at least from the perspective of human observers. Through decades of careful work, primatologists have documented the links in a long causal chain, proving for instance that females with access to more fruit trees will bear children faster. 
 But can the chimps themselves foresee the outcome of their behavior? Do they calculate that if they pick off their neighbors one by one, they will eventually be able to annex their territory, which will raise their females' fertility and the power of their group? ''I find that a difficult argument to sustain because the logical chain seems too deep,'' says Richard Wrangham, a chimp expert at Harvard. 
 A simpler explanation is that the chimps are just innately aggressive toward their neighbors, and that natural selection has shaped them this way because of the survival advantage that will accrue to the winner.
 Warfare among human groups that still live by hunting and gathering resembles chimp warfare in several ways. Foragers emphasize raids and ambushes in which few people are killed, yet casualties can mount up with incessant skirmishes. Dr. Wrangham argues that chimps and humans have both inherited a propensity for aggressive territoriality from a chimplike ancestor. Others argue the chimps' peaceful cousin, the bonobo, is just as plausible a model for the joint ancestor. 
 Dr. Wrangham's view is that since gorillas and chimps are so similar, their joint ancestor, which lived some seven million years ago, would have been chimplike and therefore so would the joint ancestor of chimps and humans when they parted ways two million years later. ''So I think it's very reasonable to think this behavior goes back a long way,'' he said, referring to the propensity to wage war against one's own species. 
 Dr. Mitani, however, is reluctant to infer any genetic link between human and chimp warfare, despite the similarity of purpose, cost and tactics. ''It's just not at all clear to me that these lethal raids are similar sorts of phenomena,'' he said. More interesting than warfare, in his view, is the cooperative behavior that makes war possible.
 Why do chimps incur the risk and time costs of patrolling into enemy territory when the advantage accrues most evidently to the group? Dr. Mitani invokes the idea of group-level selection -- the idea that natural selection can work on groups and favor behaviors, like altruism and cooperation, that benefit the group at the expense of the individual. Selection usually depends only on whether an individual, not a group, leaves more surviving children. 
 Many biologists are skeptical of group-level selection, saying it could be effective only in cases where there is intense warfare between groups, a reduced rate of selection on individuals, and little interchange of genes between groups. Chimp warfare may be constant and ferocious, fulfilling the first condition, but young females emigrate to neighboring groups to avoid inbreeding. This constant flow of genes would severely weaken any group selective process, Dr. Wrangham said.
 Samuel Bowles, an economist at the Santa Fe Institute who has worked out theoretical models of group selection, said the case for it ''is pretty strong for humans'' but remains an open question in chimpanzees.
 Chimp watching is an arduous task since researchers must first get the chimpanzees used to their presence, but without inducements like bananas, which could interfere with their natural behavior. Chimpanzees are immensely powerful, and since they can tear each other apart, they could also make short work of any researcher who incurred their animosity. 
 ''Luckily for us, they haven't figured out that they are stronger than us,'' Dr. Mitani said, explaining that there was no danger in tagging along behind a file of chimps on the warpath. ''What's curious is that after we do gain their trust, we sort of blend into the background and they pretty much ignore us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AGGRESSION: A young male chimp in Uganda's Kibale National Park leaps on the body of a victim killed in an attack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MITANI) (D4) GRAPHIC: Chimps on Patrol: Researchers observing a group of chimps in Uganda found that bands of males would occasionally patrol outside their territory, seemingly in search of individual chimps from neighboring groups. Patrols killed at least 18 neighboring chimps over 10 years, after which the group annexed a large block of the forest they had been patrolling. (Source: Current Biology) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMATES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); EVOLUTION THEORY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UGANDA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



597 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Budget Deal Is Reached in New Jersey

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
TRENTON (AP) -- A compromise deal on a $29.3 billion budget for New Jersey that averts a government shutdown and restores tens of millions of dollars to programs for needy residents has been reached by the Republican governor's office and Democrats who control the Legislature. 
 Democratic legislative leaders announced the agreement on Monday evening. Officials from the governor's office held a briefing on the budget deal on Monday night.
 The final budget is similar to what Gov. Christopher J. Christie proposed three months ago amid skyrocketing state debt and a dismal revenue picture. The budget cuts school aid by $820 million, drops 1,000 state workers and assumes $50 million in savings from privatization. It skips a $3 billion contribution to the state pension system and leaves about $300 million in surplus.
 Democrats negotiated about $74 million in restorations to programs and services for the poor and disabled and needy students.
 Among the financing that will be restored is $22 million for welfare for adults, $9 million for care for the homebound elderly, $3 million for workshops for the disabled, and $1 million in tuition scholarships.
 ''This budget stays true to the principles I originally outlined, keeping spending within our means and restoring fiscal order without raising taxes,'' Mr. Christie said in a statement released Monday night. ''This budget lays the foundation for necessary long-term reforms that will help New Jersey recover from today's economic and fiscal crisis.''
 Sheila Y. Oliver, the Assembly speaker, said Democrats did what they could to restore financing for programs and services for New Jersey's most vulnerable residents.
 ''The improvements we've made make this budget plan the best it can possibly be amid this difficult economy,'' Ms. Oliver said. ''No one is excited about what this budget does, but it at least has taken several steps toward protecting working-class New Jerseyans.''
 The budget provides $6.4 million to keep the Hagedorn Psychiatric Hospital open. However, 58 family planning centers will lose their entire state allocation of $7.5 million, about a quarter of their budgets.
 The budget also removes a proposal to realize $65 million in sales tax revenue by repealing Bergen County's ''blue laws'' restricting Sunday shopping. Proponents of the laws say they keep traffic down. Treasurer Andrew Eristoff said a more aggressive tax collection and auditing system would make up the revenue.
 Hearings will be held on the budget bills later in the week. Final votes are expected next Monday, two days ahead of the June 30 deadline to pass a balanced budget. A balanced budget must be in place by July 1 to avoid a government shutdown. In 2006, a budget impasse closed state government for eight days.
 Word of a tentative budget agreement came after Democrats in the Assembly failed to override Mr. Christie's veto of an additional tax on millionaires. In a party-line vote, the 47 Democrats favored the override and the 33 Republicans opposed it.
 The one-year surcharge would have raised $600 million by increasing income taxes on the state's 16,000 highest wage earners. Mr. Christie vetoed the tax last month after the Legislature passed it along party lines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (64%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (61%); HOSPITALS (50%); FAMILY PLANNING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



598 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: New Tools for Helping Heart Patients

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
On a recent Monday, Helen Elzo got a call from her doctor's office. A device implanted in her heart was not functioning. She needed to go to the hospital and have it replaced.
 She was aghast -- her heart is damaged and, at any time, can start quivering instead of beating. If the device, a defibrillator, was unable to shock her heart back to normal, her life was in danger.
 In the old days, Mrs.Elzo, 73, who lives outside Tulsa, Okla., could have gone for months before the problem was discovered at a routine office visit.
 But she has a new defibrillator that communicates directly with her doctor, sending signals about its functions and setting off alarms if things go wrong. 
 On the horizon is an even smarter heart device, one that detects deterioration in various heart functions and tells the patient how to adjust medications. 
 They are part of a new wave of smart implantable devices that is transforming the care of people with heart disease and creating a bonanza for researchers. The hope is that the devices, now being tested in clinical trials, will save lives, reduce medical expenses and nudge heart patients toward managing their symptoms much the way people with diabetes manage theirs. Patients, who often are frail or live far from their doctors, can be spared frequent office visits. Doctors can learn immediately if devices are malfunctioning or if patients' hearts are starting to fail.
 ''It's like having an office visit every day and a complete physical every week,'' said Dr. Leslie Saxon, a cardiologist at the University of Southern California.
 The big leap forward came a few years ago when device companies figured out how to make transmitters that send data over a broader range, 20 or 30 feet. That meant that, with her device, Mrs. Elzo did not have to wait till her doctor could put a receiver directly on her chest. Instead, she simply went near a small box, which is attached to a phone jack near her bed. Once a week, she also measures her weight and blood pressure -- key indicators of heart failure -- and that information is automatically transmitted to her doctor. If there are problems, the machine alerts her doctor.
 ''Now, every single day the device is being queried,'' said her doctor, James Coman of the Heart Rhythm Institute in Tulsa. ''It's just a phenomenal tool.''
 There is a downside, though: ''Information overload is a very serious problem'' for the doctors, said Dr. Lynne Warner Stevenson, director of the Heart Failure Program at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and a professor at Harvard Medical School, who counts herself as a proponent of smart devices. More information, she warned, is not always beneficial.
 The devices transmit useful data along with data whose significance is not clear, like variations in heart rate. Large swings in heart rate can indicate risk, but it is not clear what to do about them. 
 Even more confusing are changes in thoracic impedance, a measurement of resistance to electric current through the lung. Impedance changes can predict future heart crises, but more often have no clinical explanation. Yet when doctors get data on impedance changes, they often feel uneasy and call patients to see how they are, making patients uneasy in turn, Dr. Stevenson said.
 Dr. Stevenson likened such information to the game of ''Jeopardy!'' -- doctors are given answers in search of a question. It's a challenge even for the nation's 1,000 heart failure specialists. But it can be even harder for primary care doctors, who have less expertise in heart failure yet care for most of the six million patients in the country with the condition. 
 Dr. Richard Page, president of the Heart Rhythm Society, said doctors wonder if they can be held liable if they do not look at all the data. Still, he said, the new technology ''is potentially transformative.'' 
 For researchers the information deluge leads to a different problem: how to analyze the data. A large clinical trial of a cardiac device used to involve 1,000, maybe 2,000 patients. Now, Boston Scientific, a maker of one of the smart heart devices, is following 400,000 patients.
 ''No one has ever done research like this before,'' said Dr. Saxon, who leads an independent team of academic scientists overseeing Boston Scientific research. The company has no editorial control over the papers the scientists write, Dr. Saxon said.
 Boston Scientific gets data from patients' defibrillators. It also gets information on deaths from Medicare. 
 The data are stripped of patient identifiers and analyzed, a task requiring the company to become more like a Google or a Microsoft, handling enormous amounts of information. There are, for example, more than four million recordings of weights and blood pressures and over 60,000 instances when the defibrillators went off, shocking a patient's heart.
 So far, Dr. Saxon's group has reported on the first 90,000 patients. Half of them had not been enrolled for remote monitoring and served as a control group. 
 Patients whose doctors looked at the data survived 5 to 15 percent longer than patients in earlier clinical trials of the devices, Dr. Saxon reported. And, in a paper under review, the group reports that their three-year survival was significantly greater than that of patients in the study whose doctors did not see the data. 
 Other researchers will be analyzing economic data. The devices can cost as much as $30,000. Do patients with defibrillators make up for some of that expense with fewer hospitalizations or doctor visits?
 A study using a similar device, made by Medtronic, suggests that is the case. The Medtronic study, directed by Dr. George Crossley, president of St Thomas Heart at Baptist Hospital in Nashville, involved 2,000 patients randomly assigned to receive a defibrillator that transmitted data or a device that did not transmit. Those with the nontransmitting device were seen in their doctor's offices every few months, the standard of care. 
 Patients whose devices transmitted spent less time, on average, in the hospital when they were admitted -- 3.3 days compared with 4 days -- and their hospital costs were $1,600 less per admission. 
 ''The plausible reason, we think, is that we got to these people much sooner in the course of their illness,'' Dr. Crossley said. ''We think we did not let the people in the remote sensing group get into heart failure.''
 Still, the information overload problem looms. One solution, being tested by St. Jude Medical, a medical device company in St. Paul, is to let patients deal with important data.
 The idea, said Dr. Neal Eigler, a senior vice president at St. Jude, is to get heart patients to adjust their medications regularly based on readings of their heart's functioning, just as patients with diabetes adjust their insulin based on blood glucose readings.
 Patients hold a small device over their chest twice a day, and if they experience symptoms like shortness of breath. It transmits readings of blood pressure in the left atrium -- the upper left chamber of the heart. If pressure in that chamber gets too high, the lungs can fill with fluid. 
 Doctors preprogram the hand-held device to provide instructions to patients in response to their left atrial pressure measurements, telling them, for example, to take a different dose of a medication, restrict fluid intake, increase their activity level or call the clinic. 
 If successful, the smart device could have a big effect. One million patients a year are hospitalized for heart failure. Ninety percent of the time it is because fluid has accumulated in their lungs.
 Dr. Stevenson, who has no connection with St. Jude, is intrigued. Patients can see what is happening to their own bodies and act accordingly. They have to strictly limit salt in their diet, for example, and seeing their left atrial pressure might be motivating.
 ''A patient might say, 'Maybe my pressure is higher because that pizza I had for dinner last night had a lot of salt,' '' Dr. Stevenson said.
 As a more positive incentive, the device can also instruct patients to decrease their medications if they are doing well. 
 St. Jude recently completed a small study of 40 patients and is starting a large clinical trial. In the pilot study, the device reduced the frequency of high atrial pressure readings by two-thirds and the number of hospitalizations by 80 percent over five months.
 Meanwhile, patients whose doctors can deal with the data stream from smart devices say they are getting peace of mind.
 They include people like Danielle Denlein, who, to her total shock, developed a serious heart problem.On October 20, 2008, at 1:50 p.m., Ms. Denlein was driving to a drug store to buy formula for her 5-day-old baby girl. Suddenly, she felt a pain in her chest. She thought it was heartburn. Then it began radiating down her arm. 
 ''I just knew -- I don't know how I knew, but I knew -- I was having a heart attack,'' she said.
 Although she was only 35, her main coronary artery had ripped open, a rare complication associated with pregnancy.
 Ms. Denlein now relies on her smart defibrillator to save her from her injured heart, and to alert her doctor, Dr. Saxon, to problems if they occur.
 ''It's life changing,'' Ms. Denlein said. ''It gives me such a feeling of comfort.''
 Mrs. Elzo feels the same way. 
 Had her device not alerted her doctor that it needed to be replaced, she said, ''I shudder to think what would have happened.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INSIDE JOB: A grouping of the new smart, implantable defibrillators that monitor heart information and transmit it to doctors and hospitals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
 MONITORED: Helen Elzo, who has an implanted defibrillator, at home last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS NEAL GILBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (72%); DIABETES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) OKLAHOMA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



599 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Deal Reached To Limit Debit Card Fees

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House and Senate Democrats announced a tentative agreement Monday to impose new limits on debit card fees, which would resolve a main difference between the two chambers as they race to complete financial legislation before the Fourth of July.
 The agreement largely preserves the Senate's language, telling the Federal Reserve to limit the fees that banks collect from merchants when customers swipe debit cards. That is expected to save merchants billions of dollars, some of which could be passed on to customers in the form of lower prices. 
 The acquiescence of House Democrats, after modest changes to limit the scope and soften the impact, may set a pattern for the week ahead. The conference committee of members from both chambers appointed to develop a final version of the legislation must complete its work this week to maintain the schedule set by Democratic leaders.
 Remaining issues include how to regulate derivatives trading, the extent of restrictions on banks investing their own money, and whether to require stronger buffers against unexpected losses. The Senate's version is tougher on the banks, in part because it finished work months after the House and public sentiment turned against banks in the interim, creating a political argument for the House now to embrace that tougher line.
 ''I'm pleased that we were able to reach an agreement which makes minor changes to strengthen consumer protections and bring competition to a market where there is none,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois and champion of the debit card measure, said in a statement issued Monday.
 Last year businesses paid Visa and MasterCard $19.71 billion on debit card transactions, according to The Nilson Report, a trade magazine that is regarded as the best source of data on the industry. Visa and MasterCard in turn passed about 80 percent of the money, roughly $15.8 billion, to the banks that issued the cards. 
 The legislation directs the Fed to cap those fees at a level that is ''reasonable and proportional'' to the cost of processing transactions. 
 The compromise announced Monday also would direct the Fed to consider the cost of fraud.
 The Senate already had decided that the fee caps would apply solely to cards issued by banks with more than $10 billion in assets. That group of about 120 of the largest banks controls roughly two-thirds of debit card transactions. 
 The deal with the House excludes debit cards that banks issue on behalf of state and federal agencies to recipients of benefits like unemployment insurance and child support. States pushed hard for the exemption, fearing that banks would stop issuing the cards, or insist on higher fees to recoup the lost revenue.
 The deal also exempts prepaid debit cards, generally used by people who do not have bank accounts. Democrats cited concerns that banks would stop offering such cards, depriving lower-income families of a valuable service.
 Retailers argue that debit card fees have climbed out of all proportion with costs because Visa and MasterCard compete for business by offering banks higher fees. Industry groups welcomed the compromise. 
 ''At first blush, we can't help but notice that they've done what's in the best interest of consumers and merchants small and large,'' said John Emling, a lobbyist for the Retail Industry Leaders Association.
 Trade groups for the banking industry, which have warned that fee caps could lead banks to limit distribution of debit cards, urged rejection of the compromise.
 ''This provision remains a terrible deal for consumers, for lower-income bank customers, for government benefit programs and for community banks,'' said Edward L. Yingling, president of the American Bankers Association.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEBIT CARDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (86%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (74%); PREPAID CARDS (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); FAMILY (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (85%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (85%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010



600 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: From Fellow Passengers, An Embrace of Louisiana

 BODY:
WHEN I was in college, I went with a group of 14 friends to London. We took a flight from Miami that cost us only $199. We had a blast. 
 On the last night in London, half the group wanted to go to a club after dinner. The other half wanted to get some drinks. I couldn't make up my mind what I wanted to do so I wound up alone.
 It was after midnight and I didn't have cash or my A.T.M. card. I didn't have a cellphone because no one had cellphones back then. I didn't even have the address or phone number of my friend's aunt, whose flat we were staying at while in England. 
 But I had a rail pass and knew how to get to her home. Unfortunately, the rail didn't begin running again until 6 a.m., which left me with six hours to kill.
 I was afraid of missing the train since we were leaving at 9 a.m. for the United States, and I had to get all my stuff back at the house. I thought that if I sat on a bench at the station I might fall asleep and mess everything up. So I walked the streets of London and saw Big Ben, Parliament, London Bridge and Wimbledon. It was incredible and I was completely blown by away by the architecture and history. 
 Now I travel a lot for business. Fortunately, I'm much savvier. Well, at least I now carry a cellphone and an A.T.M. card all the time. 
 Though I still love seeing new places, there's something about my home, Louisiana, that speaks to my heart. I think Louisiana touches a lot of people. I know that because I'm one of those business types who chats with my seatmates. 
 Once I introduce myself, and tell people I'm from New Orleans, folks automatically assume I'm a Cajun since my name is pronounced Ro-Bare. I'm not Cajun; my family is of French ancestry. 
 My seatmates and I might talk business for a while, but invariably, the conversation turns to Hurricane Katrina. After the storm, those of us from the region were the walking wounded. 
 But the folks I spoke with, whether on a plane or in an airport, showed such true concern and compassion for my city that I was humbled. They wanted us to come back stronger. And I tried to assure them that young entrepreneurs like me were doing everything we could to make sure that happened.
 Now we have the oil spill. And again, we're the walking wounded. I'm not going to lie. It's difficult, and I don't think anyone can fully grasp the severity of the spill's effect until you actually see it.
 But once again the people I meet while traveling talk to me about how they hurt for us. Strangers are becoming friends, and that's an amazingly wonderful experience.
 There's no doubt this latest disaster has been devastating both environmentally and economically. Ultimately, we'll fight through it as we did after Katrina. That's just what we do. That's just who we are. But it helps me to know that so many people care. I can't thank them enough.
 I've been to a lot of places since that first London trip back in college. But for me nothing compares to the excitement I feel traveling from a trip to New York or Washington and seeing the Mississippi on our final approach into New Orleans. As soon as the cabin door opens and the warm, humid New Orleans air pours into the plane, I know I'm home.
 There's nothing as beautiful to me. Not even London at night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert LeBlanc is chief of the Lifestyle Revolution Group, an entertainment development and management company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BROWN/PLAINE STUDIOS) CHART: Q. How often do you fly? A. At a minimum, twice a month, almost always domestic. Q. What's your least favorite airport? A. It used to be Kennedy, until the JetBlue terminal opened there. Now it's O'Hare. The only good thing is the ''people mover.'' Q. Of all the places you've been, what's the best? A. Aside from my home, New Orleans, I love New York City. I have a lot of extended family there, and the history, culture and architecture are amazing. Q. What's your secret airport vice? A. Anything salty, like cashews. I try to convince myself that salty stuff is better than candy bars. I know I'm fooling myself, but whatever. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAINS (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); OIL SPILLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

 
