

601 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: The Empty Earmarks Pledge

 BODY:
Millions of Americans are out of work. The government is running a $1.3 trillion deficit. We just had an election that sent at least one clear signal: cut that deficit. So what is Washington talking about? Earmarks, the $15.9 billion in projects designated by Congress in the last fiscal year for favorite projects. That's less than half of 1 percent of federal spending.
Blaming earmarks for the country's fiscal ills has been a favorite Tea Party talking point and a way to avoid a more serious discussion of the real mix of difficult spending cuts and tax increases that are the only way to dig the country out of this hole. After Representative John Boehner, the likely next House speaker, pledged to stop earmarking spending bills -- a position received warmly by the White House -- many Republican senators said they would join the effort. 
The announcement on Monday that the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, had decided to support a two-year moratorium on Republican earmarks represented a particularly expedient change of heart. It was Mr. McConnell's generation of Republicans that turned earmarks into high political art.
In 1994, when Republicans took over the House, four of the big spending bills had more than 700 earmarks. By 2005, that increased to 8,600 earmarks. Mr. McConnell, as a longtime member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, signed off on most of those bills and was responsible for a sizable number of those items for his state of Kentucky.
The act of taking earmarks away from Congress may reduce some of the most blatant pork in the budget, like a forage-animal research laboratory in Lexington, Ky., for which Mr. McConnell requested $2 million last year. But it won't save $15.9 billion.
Earmarks are used to allocate a small fraction of already approved spending amounts. If the earmark disappears, the money for it goes back into the spending pot to be distributed by the federal or state bureaucracy instead of by lawmakers. Many of these projects are needed. If lawmakers cannot do so responsibly, someone else will have to decide which lock and dam on the Mississippi will be repaired, which highway extension will be built, which military base will get new housing.
The reforms put in place by House Democrats in recent years have already eliminated some of the worst practices. Secret earmarks, which made it impossible to know which member had requested particularly egregious items, are now banned. All House members are now required to post their requests on the Web where voters can judge for themselves whether the spending is outrageous or useful. House members also have to certify that they have no financial interest in an earmark, and spending cannot be directed to for-profit enterprises.
The Senate should embrace the same transparency.
If the parties really care about ending a particularly abusive practice, they should ban the use of earmarks to reward campaign contributors. That might have stopped Representative Don Young, a Republican of Alaska, from directing in 2007 that $10 million be spent on a Florida highway for the benefit of several land developers who had contributed to his campaign.
More transparency. Less corruption. And fewer bridges to nowhere. Those are all laudable goals to embrace. But they won't fix the country's economic problems. Representative Boehner, Senator McConnell and President Obama need to stop posturing and tell the voters their real plans for getting the economy growing again and then cutting the deficit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (63%); APPROVALS (63%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (54%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



602 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Currency Fight With China Pits U.S. Businesses Against Each Other

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
ZHUJI, China -- For American business, the United States currency dispute with China is a two-sided coin.
On the tails-we-lose side are companies like New York-based PS Brands, one of the biggest American importers of socks. With the Obama administration pressing China to raise the value of its currency, the cost of Chinese-made socks is likely to rise. So PS Brands' main supplier here is demanding shorter contracts at higher prices.
''Before, I could price six months out,'' Elie Levy, chief executive of PS Brands, said during a recent factory visit here. ''Now they only want to price 30 or 40 days out because the dollar could lose value.''
For the heads-we-win side, look to an American company 9,000 miles away, in Irvine, Calif., where the prospect of a weaker dollar is actually good news. There, Staco Systems, a maker of aerospace electronics, has a growth business selling parts to state-owned aviation companies in China. If anything, a stronger Chinese renminbi would make Staco's products even more attractive to buyers in China. 
PS Brands' problems, contrasted with Staco's opportunities, make clear why American businesses are far from unified on whether Washington should be waging a currency fight with China.
United States monetary policy has already caused the dollar to drop in value this year against most other major currencies. But the dollar's value has fallen only modestly against the renminbi. That is because Beijing has kept the renminbi artificially low by pegging it to the dollar -- instead of letting it float to its market level, as most other global currencies do.
Beijing's critics say the artificially low renminbi, by making Chinese exports cheaper than they otherwise might be, has helped China run up its huge trade surplus with the United States and much of the rest of the world.
At the Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul, South Korea, last week, President Obama chided China on its currency policy, calling for Beijing to ''act in a responsible fashion internationally'' and saying the undervalued renminbi was ''an irritant to a lot of China's trading partners and those who are competing with China to sell goods around the world.''
Beijing countered that between 2005 and 2008, when the value of the renminbi rose by about 20 percent against the dollar, it had little braking effect on the soaring United States trade deficit with China. Chinese officials say Washington is simply searching for a scapegoat.
''China will do its best to manage its economy, and never blame others for its own problems,'' China's president, Hu Jintao, said on his way to the Seoul meeting.
Big American multinational manufacturing companies can feel the pinch of dollar-renminbi fluctuations. In many cases, though, they have set up operations in China and elsewhere that let them hedge by doing business in local currencies.
But currency exchange rates are a much bigger factor for the many small and midsize American companies that still manufacture on shore, like Staco. They tend to embrace a dollar policy that would make their export prices lower.
Meanwhile, the American companies most likely to oppose Washington's currency fight with Beijing are businesses like PS Brands -- Wal-Mart would be another good example -- that get their goods from China and sell them in the United States. Those companies' balance sheets are likely to suffer, and American consumers more likely to feel the effect, when the cost goes up on Chinese imports -- whether socks, sofas or smartphones.
What often gets lost in the heated rhetoric, though, is that American and Chinese officials actually agree in principle that more balanced trade is healthier for the global economy. Where they diverge is on how fast to get there.
The Obama administration wants fast action because it worries that the growing United States trade deficit will continue to threaten jobs and economic growth. But Chinese officials worry that letting the renminbi rise too quickly would bankrupt coastal factories that price their goods in dollars and that already operate on thin profit margins, destroying tens of millions of jobs.
As a result, Beijing has allowed the renminbi to rise against the dollar only moderately, by about 3 percent this year. China's critics say it needs to rise by as much as 20 percent more.
The challenges to both sides are evident here in the city of Zhuji, two hours south of Shanghai, where Mr. Levy arrived recently to negotiate the purchase of about $1 million worth of socks.
PS Brand, which had $58 million in revenue last year, is a private company with 35 employees. Its Chinese supplier is Shuangjin Knitting and Textile, which operates a 300,000-square-foot factory here that will produce about 43 million pairs of socks this year. Dealers like PS Brands distribute those socks to customers like Wal-Mart, Adidas and Disney.
On the crisp, autumn day of Mr. Levy's visit, about 75 workers were busy stitching, sorting and packaging thousands of socks headed for America, including labels featuring the cartoon character Dora the Explorer.
The factory's boss, a friendly, 41-year-old entrepreneur named Yang Tiefeng, boasts that he has sock manufacturing down to a science. His facility can churn out 5,000 pairs of socks every hour at a cost of about 25 cents a pair, he says, which at current exchange rates still leaves him a tiny profit.
Analysts say those socks retail in the United States for about $2.99, with the difference divided among shippers, middlemen, marketers and the retailer.
But even without the currency fight, the economics of sock-making here are shifting. This year, labor shortages in China's booming coastal factory towns have pushed up factory wages. And skyrocketing cotton prices, propelled by bad weather in cotton-producing regions, have been an even sharper blow.
During a tour of his factory last week, Mr. Yang said the prospect of a strengthening renminbi and a weakening dollar would create more hardship. Most Chinese factories sign long-term contracts in dollars; and if the dollar slides, factories here lose.
''It's unfair,'' Mr. Yang says.
Not surprisingly, Shuangjin's recent negotiation with PS Brands, its biggest American customer, was tense. Mr. Levy warned that big retailers back home were pressing him to hold down costs in China because of weak spending by American consumers. Mr. Yang countered that he was strained by the soaring cotton prices.
After the talks ended, Mr. Yang walked into a conference room and exhaled. He declined to divulge details, saying only that a deal had been struck.
''That was tough,'' he said, noting that currency was a major sticking point. ''I told my clients today, 'If you want to order, do it today, because if you wait the price will be different.' ''
One thing Mr. Levy and Mr. Yang agree about: it is only a matter of time before pricing pressures in factories like Shuangjin's result in higher consumer prices for Americans.
The mood is distinctly different at Staco Systems' factory in Irvine, where Staco is building airplane cockpit gear for a state-owned Chinese company named Avic.
The United States long ago surrendered most low-skill manufacturing and assembly to China. But many higher-technology components, like microchips and specialized tools, are still made in the United States.
At Staco's factory, workers blend precious metals, like gold and silver, with complex plastics to create buttons and switches for plane makers like Boeing and Airbus. The switches, which must be durable enough to withstand military demands and have special optics for all types of lighting conditions, are often priced as high as $500 each.
In the last two years Staco has expanded its payroll, to about 100 employees now, and it is selling to China's fast-growing aviation industry. And with the dollar's value declining against other currencies, Chinese buyers can afford more of Staco's gear, as its prices are increasingly competitive with European companies' products. ''China will be our fastest-growing market over the next few years,'' said Jason Childs, vice president for sales and marketing at Staco Systems, which is privately held and had revenue of about $20 million last year.
That, in microcosm, is what American officials want from a stronger renminbi relative to the dollar: more exports and job creation.
But Mr. Levy at PS Brands says the rise of the renminbi is going to have cruel side effects: job losses in America's retail sector and higher prices for consumers.
''This is hurting the U.S. consumer who can afford it the least,'' Mr. Levy said. ''If people are struggling, how are they going to pay more for socks?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at Shuangjin Knitting and Textile, which supplies socks to PS Brand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
As the United States presses China to raise the value of its currency, the cost of Chinese-made goods, like socks from Shuangjin Knitting and Textile, top, is likely to rise. But for American exporters like Staco Systems, above, a weak dollar makes its products more attractive abroad. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); AVIONICS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (63%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (85%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



603 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Too Good to Check

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
On Nov. 4, Anderson Cooper did the country a favor. He expertly deconstructed on his CNN show the bogus rumor that President Obama's trip to Asia would cost $200 million a day. This was an important ''story.'' It underscored just how far ahead of his time Mark Twain was when he said a century before the Internet, ''A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes.'' But it also showed that there is an antidote to malicious journalism -- and that's good journalism.
In case you missed it, a story circulated around the Web on the eve of President Obama's trip that it would cost U.S. taxpayers $200 million a day -- about $2 billion for the entire trip. Cooper said he felt impelled to check it out because the evening before he had had Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, a Republican and Tea Party favorite, on his show and had asked her where exactly Republicans will cut the budget. 
Instead of giving specifics, Bachmann used her airtime to inject a phony story into the mainstream. She answered: ''I think we know that just within a day or so the president of the United States will be taking a trip over to India that is expected to cost the taxpayers $200 million a day. He's taking 2,000 people with him. He'll be renting over 870 rooms in India, and these are five-star hotel rooms at the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel. This is the kind of over-the-top spending.''
The next night, Cooper explained that he felt compelled to trace that story back to its source, since someone had used his show to circulate it. His research, he said, found that it had originated from a quote by ''an alleged Indian provincial official,'' from the Indian state of Maharashtra, ''reported by India's Press Trust, their equivalent of our A.P. or Reuters. I say 'alleged,' provincial official,'' Cooper added, ''because we have no idea who this person is, no name was given.''
It is hard to get any more flimsy than a senior unnamed Indian official from Maharashtra talking about the cost of an Asian trip by the American president.
''It was an anonymous quote,'' said Cooper. ''Some reporter in India wrote this article with this figure in it. No proof was given; no follow-up reporting was done. Now you'd think if a member of Congress was going to use this figure as a fact, she would want to be pretty darn sure it was accurate, right? But there hasn't been any follow-up reporting on this Indian story. The Indian article was picked up by The Drudge Report and other sites online, and it quickly made its way into conservative talk radio.''
Cooper then showed the following snippets: Rush Limbaugh talking about Obama's trip: ''In two days from now, he'll be in India at $200 million a day.'' Then Glenn Beck, on his radio show, saying: ''Have you ever seen the president, ever seen the president go over for a vacation where you needed 34 warships, $2 billion -- $2 billion, 34 warships. We are sending -- he's traveling with 3,000 people.'' In Beck's rendition, the president's official state visit to India became ''a vacation'' accompanied by one-tenth of the U.S. Navy. Ditto the conservative radio talk-show host Michael Savage. He said, ''$200 million? $200 million each day on security and other aspects of this incredible royalist visit; 3,000 people, including Secret Service agents.''
Cooper then added: ''Again, no one really seemed to care to check the facts. For security reasons, the White House doesn't comment on logistics of presidential trips, but they have made an exception this time. He then quoted Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, as saying, ''I am not going to go into how much it costs to protect the president, [but this trip] is comparable to when President Clinton and when President Bush traveled abroad. This trip doesn't cost $200 million a day.'' Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, said: ''I will take the liberty this time of dismissing as absolutely absurd, this notion that somehow we were deploying 10 percent of the Navy and some 34 ships and an aircraft carrier in support of the president's trip to Asia. That's just comical. Nothing close to that is being done.''
Cooper also pointed out that, according to the Congressional Budget Office, the entire war effort in Afghanistan was costing about $190 million a day and that President Bill Clinton's 1998 trip to Africa -- with 1,300 people and of roughly similar duration, cost, according to the Government Accountability Office and adjusted for inflation, ''about $5.2 million a day.''
When widely followed public figures feel free to say anything, without any fact-checking, we have a problem. It becomes impossible for a democracy to think intelligently about big issues -- deficit reduction, health care, taxes, energy/climate -- let alone act on them. Facts, opinions and fabrications just blend together. But the carnival barkers that so dominate our public debate today are not going away -- and neither is the Internet. All you can hope is that more people will do what Cooper did -- so when the next crazy lie races around the world, people's first instinct will be to doubt it, not repeat it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MICHELE BACHMANN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (79%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (69%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



604 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Way They Were

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Talk about your misty watercolor memories. What's too painful to remember, we simply choose to forget. The bittersweet story of a preppie for whom things always came too easily and his noodging partner, pressuring with sky-high expectations until that final clash split them apart.
Has time rewritten every line? It's trying, big-time. 
Yes, Robert Redford and Barbra Streisand met up on ''Oprah'' on Tuesday to talk about their 1973 turn in ''The Way We Were'' as the culture-crossed Hubbell and Katie.
But the more charged reunion was taking place in Dallas at the groundbreaking ceremony for the George W. Bush Presidential Center at Southern Methodist University.
After a period of estrangement and after circling each other with dueling memoirs, a happy W. and a gaunt Dick Cheney were reunited on stage.
''History is beginning to come around,'' Cheney said with satisfaction. After hailing W. as ''classy,'' Vice acted unclassy. Demonstrating that Bush still cannot control Cheney, the former vice president defied W.'s promise not to mock President Obama.
''This may be the only shovel-ready project in America,'' Cheney noted sardonically, making fun of Obama's attempts to dig out from under the trillions of debt left by his predecessors.
Together again were the president and vice president who invaded, deregulated, overspent, created a climate of fear and intensified the class divide with tax cuts -- all so recklessly that our resources are sapped just as we need to step up and compete with our banker, China.
''I wasn't a very good economic prognosticator,'' Bush told CNN's Candy Crowley. No kidding.
The pair fell out over the Scooter Libby pardon. Up until that point, Vice had been able to lead W. off various cliffs with faux deference and a good sense of which buttons to push. (W. would do anything to avoid getting labeled a wimp.)
Bush writes in his autobiography that when he told Scooter's old boss that the jury verdict should be respected, Dick stared at him intensely.
''I can't believe you're going to leave a soldier on the battlefield,'' Cheney said.
''The comment stung,'' Bush concedes. ''In eight years, I had never seen Dick like this, or even close to this. I worried that the friendship we had built was about to be severely strained, at best.''
In his book, Bush is respectful to Cheney. He doesn't even mention his vice president's near-deadly aim with a hunting rifle.
But it is telling that W. takes pains to paint his Vice as a mere supporting player, not the huge force for global domination that he was. This conscious diminution of Cheney makes the power struggle in that White House all the more apparent.
W. writes that he considered dropping Cheney from the ticket in 2004, but even that wasn't his own idea. Cheney diabolically suggested it, knowing the Dauphin would refuse.
On the ''Today'' show interview with Matt Lauer, Bush was asked by an audience member to name his most insightful adviser.
The chagrined ex-president tried to avoid the question at first. It was fascinating to watch the body language of the man who said his decision to invade Iraq relied more on body language than vigorous debate.
When W. did offer a list, Cheney did not immediately pop to mind. Hank Paulson was first. Then Condi, who elbowed Cheney aside. Then Colin Powell, Cheney's nemesis. Then Rummy, Cheney's mentor and partner in dark machinations. And then, finally, when W. could avoid it no longer, he mentioned Vice, damning with faint praise: ''Dick Cheney's advice was consistent and strong.''
He told Lauer that he was motivated to run for president because of his father: ''I wondered whether or not I had what it took to get in the arena like he did.'' And he writes that one of the motivating factors for sacking Saddam was that the Butcher of Baghdad tried to assassinate his dad.
Yet, despite his father being the measuring stick and prod, he did not keep the former president and foreign affairs expert in the loop on Iraq.
Asked by Bill O'Reilly why he did not like to seek advice from his father -- the only other American president who went to war with Saddam -- W. offered a nonsensical answer that simply underscored his perpetual fear of being overshadowed by his dad.
''He knew that I had better information at the time than he would have known,'' W. said, adding that when ''the heat'' is on ''you tend to seek out the advice of the people closest to you.'' He also talked as usual about how close he and his dad are, which makes the whole thing even weirder.
As Barbra sang on ''Oprah'': If we had the chance to do it all again, tell me, would we? Could we?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); JURY TRIALS (50%); VERDICTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



605 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Paul Calello, 49, Leader Of a Credit Suisse Unit

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Paul Calello, the chairman of the investment bank at Credit Suisse Group who helped navigate the Swiss bank through the financial crisis, died on Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 49.
The cause was non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, the bank said in a statement.
''Paul Calello was an outstanding leader, and a down-to-earth, very human colleague,'' Brady Dougan, the bank's chief executive, said in a statement. ''We will miss him greatly, but his spirit and accomplishments will remain a part of Credit Suisse.'' 
Mr. Dougan and Mr. Calello joined Credit Suisse together in 1990 as part of a team of derivatives traders from Bankers Trust. Mr. Calello held numerous leadership roles at the bank, including a stint during the middle of last decade as chief executive of its Asian business. He led the firm's significant expansion in China, where he helped arrange the $22 billion initial public offering of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, at the time the largest I.P.O. in history.
Credit Suisse tapped him as C.E.O. of the investment bank in 2007, just as the markets were peaking. He was part of the leadership team that helped steer the bank through the financial crisis, including spearheading in late 2008 a substantial reduction of risk on the firm's balance sheet and cutting costs across the firm.
Some of those moves, including exiting certain proprietary trading businesses, presaged the new financial regulations that investment banks across Wall Street are now scrambling to comply with.
''Paul reshaped what an investment bank is supposed to look like,'' said Wilson Ervin, a senior adviser to Mr. Dougan at Credit Suisse, which has emerged from the crisis in better shape than most of its peers.
Mr. Calello also helped devise a novel plan of paying bankers' bonuses with the firm's toxic assets that was clogging the bank's balance sheet. The plan, which was controversial within Credit Suisse at the time it was announced, has been largely successful as the assets, such as mortgage-backed securities and corporate loans, have increased in value.
He stepped down at C.E.O. in September of 2009 to undergo cancer treatment. He continued to work throughout his illness, and could often be seen riding his Vespa across the Brooklyn Bridge to Credit Suisse's offices by Madison Square Park on the East Side of Manhattan.
Mr. Calello spoke and wrote publicly about how the government should handle the next financial crisis, issues he had been contemplating since the 1980s. After business school, he spent two years at the Federal Reserve and was on a team that helped oversee the government bailout of Continental Illinois, which at the time was the largest bank failure in U.S. history. (Colleagues said that during this recent banking crisis, Mr. Calello would reference Continental Illinois, saying that he had seen this movie before.)
In a guest column co-written in The Economist from January, Mr. Calello argued that the next time a big bank failure looms, officials should be given the authority to order what he described as a ''bail-in,'' forcing banks to recapitalize from within, using private capital, not public money.
Born on Feb. 14, 1961, in Boston, Mr. Calello graduated from Villanova University and received an M.B.A. from Columbia Business School. He served on the board of directors of the New York Philharmonic and was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Mr. Calello is survived by his wife, Jane DeBevoise, and their four children.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Calello in June 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CANCER (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); ONCOLOGY (72%); LYMPHOMA (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); HISTORY (66%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (96%); INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (69%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (96%); CS (NYSE) (96%); 1398 (HKSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%)

PERSON: PAUL CALELLO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



606 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Diesel, Cleaner, Is Set to Make A Comeback

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
WHEN Kenneth Ray Earley, a sophomore at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, went looking to replace the gas-guzzling, 1998 Chevy Silverado he'd inherited from his family, fuel efficiency, he said, was top of mind. He looked at Honda's Civic and Fit models, as well as a Chevy Cobalt and the Toyota Prius hybrid.
In the end, he settled on the 2010 Volkswagen Golf TDI -- a diesel-powered car.
''The car is very fun to drive, it's quick for blasting between the lights and it handles wonderfully,'' Mr. Earley said. ''I am still amazed that diesel in America is normally relegated to pickup trucks and commercial vehicles.'' 
That could be changing. Tougher pollution-reduction requirements, advances in diesel engineering and heightened interest in overall fuel economy among American car buyers are helping to burnish the otherwise dirty, smelly and highly polluting reputation of diesel cars.
And with the additional pressures of climate change and the hunt for ways to reduce carbon dioxide emissions -- particularly within the transportation sector, the second-largest producer of greenhouse gases in the United States -- some enthusiasts are looking to diesel-powered cars as a greener alternative to gasoline cars, as well as an efficient, high-performance alternative to hybrids.
''It's hilarious to pull up into the huge diesel fuel bays at a gas station in the middle of nowhere and get a barrage of questions from truckers,'' said Mr. Earley, who currently ranks second on the popular, if somewhat unscientific, TDI Tank Wars Web site, where owners of Volkswagen diesel cars compete for the best fuel-efficiency scores. ''Like, 'Is that thing a diesel? No way -- what kind of mileage do you get?' ''
On the whole, diesel vehicles tend to be 20 to 40 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable gasoline cars, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. In Europe, where fuel prices are more than double those in the United States, that higher fuel economy has proved a powerful driver, and diesel cars now account for roughly 50 percent of the market.
''Europe didn't have the bad experience that the United States had,'' said Karl Brauer, a senior analyst with Edmunds.com, an online automotive information clearinghouse. Mr. Brauer recalled his own family's diesel-powered car from a generation ago -- a clanging, smoke-burping Cadillac Fleetwood. ''The diesels of that era were terrible cars,'' he said. ''They broke down, they were smelly, they were loud, they couldn't start when they were cold -- diesels were a pain.''
Indeed, for most American drivers, oil-based diesel fuel -- a less-refined distillate of petroleum than gasoline -- has historically been most closely associated with soot-billowing buses and trucks, environmentally unfriendly farm machinery or, perhaps most indelibly, a spate of low-quality, American-made diesel passenger cars in the late 1970s and early 1980s famous for being noisy and unreliable.
After reaching a high of roughly 6 percent of the new passenger car fleet in 1981, according to data from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, diesel cars virtually disappeared from American roads for the next two decades. Off-road equipment and the shipping and transport industries became almost the sole province of diesel -- along with a loyal minority of small-truck owners and foreign car enthusiasts.
Beyond reliability issues, the market for diesel cars in the United States was depressed by both policy and price.
Diesel cars are more expensive to build, meaning the sticker price is typically a few thousand dollars higher than that of a comparable gasoline-powered car. And even though diesel fuel is nominally cheaper to make, given lower levels of refining required, Mr. Brauer noted, low overall demand for diesel cars in the United States has resulted in less of it being produced -- and that comparative scarcity has contributed to higher prices.
Federal and state fuel taxes, too, combine to put a heavier hit on diesel -- averaging about 52.5 cents a gallon nationally in October, according to the American Petroleum Institute, compared with 47.4 cents for gasoline. (In Europe, the tax penalty is reversed, making gasoline pricier).
On top of this, the California Air Resources Board tightened emissions standards for all cars in 2004, effectively banning diesel sales there and in several other states that adopted the California standard. The guidelines limited tailpipe emissions of nitrogen oxides, a major smog contributor, to 0.07 grams a mile -- significantly tougher than the current European limit of 0.29 grams a mile.
Diesel's share of the American light-duty vehicle market -- which includes cars and light trucks like pickups and S.U.V.'s -- has mostly remained below 1 percent over the last 30 years. But in the last decade, that number has begun to tick back up, and according to Ward's Automotive Group, a research firm, diesels now hover at just over 3 percent of the light-vehicle market.
Diesel engineers are catching up with the tougher emissions rules. According to Edmunds.com, the 2009 model year brought the arrival of a new breed of diesel passenger cars that could meet the California standard. The proliferation of so-called clean diesel or ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel has also played a role. Ultra-low sulfur diesel allows the advanced pollution control systems in new diesel vehicles -- systems that could be foiled by the levels of sulfur previously permitted in diesel fuel -- to work properly.
By E.P.A. mandate, virtually all highway diesel refined in the United States or imported must be ultra-low sulfur by Dec. 1.
Improved diesel engine technology has also eliminated some of the more common problems associated with the cars of a generation ago. ''The technology has totally changed,'' Mr. Brauer said. ''Gone are the issues with cold starting. There's no cloud of smoke when you start it up in the morning, and no rattling sounds when it's idling.''
As for greenhouse gases, there's no getting around the fact that most diesel fuel is derived from oil -- a huge contributor to global warming at every stage of its lifecycle. But the Energy Information Administration reports that on a ''well to wheels'' basis -- a measure incorporating emissions over the fuel-oil lifecycle, from its withdrawal from the well to refining and ultimately to its combustion in a car's gas tank -- greenhouse gas emissions from diesel cars are roughly 15 percent lower than those arising from comparable gasoline cars.
The federal government now offers tax incentives for certain diesel models, and Kelley Blue Book, the vehicle valuation company, currently lists two diesel models -- the BMW 335d and the Volkswagen Golf TDI -- among its Top 10 Green Cars for 2010.
Whether any of this will lead to a true diesel car boom remains to be seen -- and challenges to widespread uptake among everyday drivers linger. Among them is a recent study from Hart Energy Consulting, conducted on behalf of the Diesel Technology Forum, a trade group, that found, while availability is growing, only about half of automotive fuel stations offer diesel fuel, suggesting that the typical suburban car owner might think twice before going the diesel route.
And it's also worth noting that the Energy Information Administration found that greenhouse gas emissions from diesel cars were 20 to 25 percent higher than those from gasoline- or diesel-powered hybrid electric vehicles like the Prius, which also outperform comparable diesel cars on a miles-per-gallon basis.
But diesel converts like Mr. Earley are quick to point out that with little or no modification, their cars could also run on vegetable oil or other biodiesel fuels, if an infrastructure for such fuels were ever made widely available.
Until then, they're willing to sacrifice a little green in favor of what they perceive as a more powerful driving experience.
''Another perk is meeting and destroying hybrids at stoplights,'' Mr. Earley said, ''already knowing that those drivers paid too much and have no fun driving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FILL IT UP: Diesel vehicles are up to 40 percent more fuel-efficient than gas-powered ones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE WINTROATH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (75%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%) MISSOURI, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



607 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop on Wall Street Amid Global Worries

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Worries about Europe's debt crisis and possible moves by the authorities in Asia to slow fast-paced growth there swept the world's markets on Tuesday and pushed stocks in the United States sharply lower.
As finance ministers from the 16 countries that use the euro met in Brussels to discuss the problems in Ireland, investors were nervous that the debt crisis could spread across the Continent to Portugal and to Spain.
''There is a worry about the state of things overseas. It is the European debt crisis that is causing this,'' said Zach Pandl, economist at Nomura in New York. 
Stocks worldwide, which have been grinding lower since the Federal Reserve announced its asset purchase program to stimulate the economy, fell for the seventh consecutive day.
The Dow Jones industrial average briefly fell below 11,000 for the first time since mid-October. At the close, it was 11,023.50, down 178.47 points, or 1.59 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 19.41 points, or 1.62 percent, to 1,178.34. The Nasdaq composite index fell 43.98 points, or 1.75 percent, to 2,469.84.
Economists said that the criticism of the Fed's policy by Republican politicians was also raising doubts about whether the central bank would carry out the entire quantitative easing program, contributing to the drag on stocks.
The speculation that the Fed would bow to political pressure and curtail its program had led to a heavy sell-off in the United States government bond market since late last week.
That decline, however, reversed slightly on Tuesday when bond prices recovered. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.84 percent, from 2.96 percent on Monday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose by 1 to 98 4/32.
Other concerns troubling stock investors were that the newly empowered Republican Party in Washington would be less willing to support state and local government borrowing.
''A lot of this is a correction, and the recognition that we still have a lot of problems here,'' said Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital in New York.
Labor Department figures showed that producer prices rose 0.4 percent in October. That was below analysts' expectations, and showed subdued inflationary pressures, economists said. The core measure, excluding food and energy costs, fell 0.6 percent.
Other data showed industrial production flat in October.
The recent sell-off in stocks reverses the rally that first greeted the announcement on Nov. 3 of the Fed's $600 billion program intended to push rates lower and stimulate the economy. The stock market has enjoyed a rally of about 15 percent since late August on expectations of the new policy.
Economists said the declines in the stock market on Tuesday wiped out some of those gains.
Stock markets across Europe also fell sharply. In Britain, the FTSE 100 closed down 2.38 percent, at 5,681.90. In Germany, the DAX was down 1.87 percent.
Michael Gapen, another economist at Barclays Capital in New York, said that so far markets had been concerned for the most part about Greek and Irish indebtedness, but investors were worried about what would happen if Spain, a much bigger country, was dragged into Europe's debt crisis and required a bailout.
''There is a contingent out there who believe Greece and Ireland will eventually have to take some public funds, and there will be an orderly restructuring following the process put in place six months ago,'' he said. ''But they don't know what will happen if sovereign risk spreads to Spain and it gets in trouble.''
China also weighed on the markets. Recent data has shown a still strongly growing Chinese economy. Investors worried that Chinese authorities would react to recent increases in food prices by taking steps to slow the nation's economy. That would have an effect on world demand.
The Shanghai composite index, which has fallen sharply in recent sessions, fell 4 percent.
As investors anticipated a slowdown in Chinese growth, prices of commodities fell sharply. Oil prices fell to $82.34.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange amid worries about a debt crisis Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INFLATION (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SPAIN (92%); ASIA (92%); PORTUGAL (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



608 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2344 words

HEADLINE: There Will Be Fuel

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON
THREE summers ago, the world's supertankers were racing across the oceans as fast as they could to deliver oil to markets growing increasingly thirsty for energy. Americans were grumbling about paying as much as $4 a gallon for gasoline, as the price of crude oil leapt to $147 a barrel. Natural gas prices were vaulting too, sending home electricity bills soaring.
A book making the rounds at the time, ''Twilight in the Desert,'' by Matthew R. Simmons, seemed to sum up the conventional wisdom: the age of cheap, plentiful oil and gas was over. ''Sooner or later, the worldwide use of oil must peak,'' the book concluded, ''because oil, like the other two fossil fuels, coal and natural gas, is nonrenewable.''
But no sooner did the demand-and-supply equation shift out of kilter than it swung back into something more palatable and familiar. Just as it seemed that the world was running on fumes, giant oil fields were discovered off the coasts of Brazil and Africa, and Canadian oil sands projects expanded so fast, they now provide North America with more oil than Saudi Arabia. In addition, the United States has increased domestic oil production for the first time in a generation. 
Meanwhile, another wave of natural gas drilling has taken off in shale rock fields across the United States, and more shale gas drilling is just beginning in Europe and Asia. Add to that an increase in liquefied natural gas export terminals around the world that connected gas, which once had to be flared off, to the world market, and gas prices have plummeted.
Energy experts now predict decades of residential and commercial power at reasonable prices. Simply put, the world of energy has once again been turned upside down.
''Oil and gas will continue to be pillars for global energy supply for decades to come,'' said James Burkhard, a managing director of IHS CERA, an energy consulting firm. ''The competitiveness of oil and gas and the scale at which they are produced mean that there are no readily available substitutes in either one year or 20 years.''
Some unpleasant though predictable consequences are likely, of course, as the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico this spring demonstrated. Some environmentalists say that gas from shale depends on drilling techniques and chemicals that may jeopardize groundwater supplies, and that a growing dependence on Canadian oil sands is more dangerous for the climate than most conventional oils because mining and processing of the sands require so much energy and a loss of forests.
And while moderately priced oil and gas bring economic relief, they also make renewable sources of energy like wind and solar relatively expensive and less attractive to investors unless governments impose a price on carbon emissions.
''When wind guys talk to each other,'' said Michael Skelly, president of Clean Line Energy Partners, a developer of transmission lines for renewable energy, ''they say, 'Damn, what are we going to do about the price of natural gas?' ''
Oil and gas executives say they provide a necessary energy bridge; that because both oil and gas have a fraction of the carbon-burning intensity of coal, it makes sense to use them until wind, solar, geothermal and the rest become commercially viable.
''We should celebrate the fact that we have enough oil and gas to carry us forward until a new energy technology can take their place,'' said Robert N. Ryan Jr., Chevron's vice president for global exploration.
Mr. Skelly and other renewable energy entrepreneurs counter that without a government policy fixing a price on carbon emissions through a tax or cap and trade, the hydrocarbon bridge could go on and on without end.
So what happened to shift the energy world so drastically the last few years? Is the shift reversible once the economy picks up?
The recession throttled the world's demand for energy, particularly in the United States and Europe, but that tells only part of the story. Periodic jolts, like the Arab oil embargoes in the 1960s and 1970s, are likely to recur in a world with unpredictable actors like Iran. Access to oil and gas may always be limited by geopolitics, especially in places like the Middle East. Just in the last few days, the decline in the dollar spurred a new spike in oil prices, along with those of other commodities.
Yet, the outlook, based on long-term trends barely visible five years ago, now appears to promise large supplies of oil and gas from multiple new sources for decades into the future.
The same high prices that inspired dire fear in the first place helped to resolve them. High oil and gas prices produced a wave of investment and drilling, and technological innovation has unlocked oceans of new resources. Oil and gas from ocean bottoms, the Arctic and shale rock fields are quickly replacing tired fields in places like Mexico, Alaska and the North Sea.
Much depends, of course, on government policies in the coming decades. The International Energy Agency, the Paris-based organization that advises industrialized countries, projected this month that global energy demand would increase by an astounding 36 percent between 2008 and 2035, assuming the broad policy commitments already announced by governments were exercised. Oil demand is projected to grow to 99 million barrels a day in 2035, from 84 million barrels a day in 2009.
Even in an alternative world where there is a concerted, coordinated effort to reduce future carbon emissions sharply, the International Energy Agency projected oil demand would peak at 88 million barrels a day around 2020, then decline to 81 million barrels a day in 2035 -- just fractionally less than today's consumption. Natural gas use, meanwhile, would increase by 15 percent from current levels by 2035. In contrast, global coal use would dip a bit, while nuclear power and renewable forms of energy would grow considerably.
No matter what finally plays out, energy experts expect there will be plenty, perhaps even an abundance, of oil and gas. IHS CERA, which monitors oil and gas fields around the world, projects that productive capacity for liquid fuels could rise to 112 million barrels a day in 2030 (including 2.75 million barrels in biofuels), from 92.6 million barrels a day this year.
''The estimates for how much oil there is in the world continue to increase,'' said William M. Colton, Exxon Mobil's vice president for corporate strategic planning. ''There's enough oil to supply the world's needs as far as anyone can see.''
More promising still is that the growing oil production comes from a variety of sources -- making the world less vulnerable to a price war with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries or an outbreak of violence in a major producing country like Nigeria. As IHS CERA and other oil analysts see it, new oil is going to come from both conventional and unconventional sources -- from anticipated expansions of fields in Iraq and Saudi Arabia and from a continued expansion of deepwater drilling off Africa and Brazil, in the Gulf of Mexico and across the Arctic, where hopes are high in the oil world, although little exploration has yet been done.
The vast oil sands fields in western Canada, deemed uneconomical by many oil companies as few as 15 years ago, are now as important to global supply growth as the continuing expansions of fields in Saudi Arabia, the current No. 1 producer.
''We've got a wealth of opportunities to address around the world,'' said Mr. Ryan, Chevron's vice president. ''We have quite a few deepwater settings all over the world, some of them very new, like the Black Sea. There are Arctic settings. We have efforts under way re-exploring Nigeria, Angola, Australia. The easy stuff has been found, that's true, but in the end, we still have many basins in the world to explore or to re-explore.''
The biggest wild card, and a potential game-changer, is Iraq, which now produces a modest 2.5 million barrels a day. With Saddam Hussein out of the picture, international oil companies have rushed there. If all the projects they have agreed to develop pan out, and if Iraq can contain its political turbulence enough to pump, production could mushroom to 12 million barrels a day by the end of the decade -- well above what Saudi Arabia produces today.
But even if Iraq's production does not rise to this level, IHS CERA predicts ''it will eventually join Saudi Arabia and Russia as one of the largest global producers, with increasing influence on OPEC and world oil markets.''
New supplies are only part of the equation. Technological innovation has made the use of oil and gas more efficient, too, helping to keep rising demand for energy at least partly in check. Cars, buildings and appliances are becoming less wasteful, and biofuels are increasingly supplementing oil products and extending their reach.
Even in China, India and the rest of the developing world, where the demands of a growing middle class probably represent the world's biggest energy challenge, there are positive signs.
China, for instance, is making a big push to reduce energy subsidies for exports like steel and aluminum. Countries around the developing world are severely cutting gasoline subsidies, forcing consumers of new cars to contain their exuberance. Cars that run on compressed natural gas are replacing more carbon-intensive gasoline-driven vehicles across Latin America and Asia. Natural gas sales should soar in Europe and the United States if the electric car takes off in the next couple of decades, as utilities are expected to phase out coal-burning plants in favor of gas.
Not surprisingly, the back-to-the-future world of oil and gas begins in the United States, still the biggest economy and the driver of energy markets since World War II.
For the last two decades, the United States has produced less oil each year and been increasingly dependent on imports than the year before. As recently as a decade ago, most experts predicted that the country had only 25 years of gas reserves, and that it would need to import at least half of its needs in the future.
Today the country has reversed both trends, chiefly because of new drilling techniques that have opened world-class oil and gas resources. In 2009, domestic production began to reverse its annual decline for the first time since 1991. The Energy Department expects domestic supplies to grow through 2035, absent a significant decline in oil prices.
Largely shut out of the Middle East, international companies including BP and Shell began seriously looking at the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico in the 1990s. Exploration and drilling below 10,000 feet of water and through miles of hard rock, thick salt and tightly packed sands required the development of supercomputers and three-dimensional imaging and equipment that could withstand the heat and pressures common at such depths, as well as submarine robots to make repairs.
After only a decade of serious deepwater drilling, the gulf is undergoing a drilling renaissance. Despite a decline in shallow-water production, gulf oil production has increased by more than 12 percent since 2000, to 1.7 million barrels a day, comparable to Libya's output. Those increases are bound to slow over the next year or two as the federal government recalibrates regulations after the BP accident, but oil executives say they are committed to continue the production boom.
''We'll see the industry ramp back up, go back to work and maybe in a year or year and a half, we'll be back in a normal pace,'' Marvin E. Odum, president of Shell Oil, a major Gulf producer, predicted.
Similar advances have made drilling gas and oil from shale possible on a large scale for the first time. Advances in so-called horizontal drilling allow well drillers to steer and carve through hard shale to expose more and hard-to-reach rock, and it also makes possible drilling under city neighborhoods, as in Fort Worth, which happens to sit atop a large gas field.
Horizontal drilling and advanced fracturing techniques across wide swaths of Pennsylvania, Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Arkansas over the last few years have produced so much natural gas that experts now say the United States has reserves for more than 100 years. That means the country is not only going to have plenty of gas, but also is likely to become an exporter over the next decade.
The American gas glut has set off a glut around the world, because the building spree in recent years of Middle Eastern and Asian liquefied natural gas terminals was originally intended to send much of their gas to the United States.
''The technology producing these resources has absolutely made the difference,'' Mr. Odum said. ''It's the same with the Arctic, with the shale oil, all over the world. Technology is the key.''
Shale drilling is also beginning to produce significant amounts of oil in the United States. The Bakken shale field centered in North Dakota has become the fastest-growing major oil field in the United States, with production rocketing to about 350,000 barrels a day, from 100,000 barrels a day a decade ago. In a recent report, the consultancy firm PFC Energy projected production would climb to 450,000 barrels a day by 2013.
Add up the shale, the deepwater drilling and Canadian oil sands, says Edward L. Morse, the head at commodity research at Credit Suisse, and what you get is less dependency on OPEC and hostile countries like Venezuela. Synthetic oil made from Canadian oil sands has become the largest single source of imported oil this year, far more than from any OPEC country.
Mr. Morse said the demand side of the equation also helped. He noted that American demand for gasoline appeared to have peaked in 2007 and could decline by 15 to 20 percent by 2020 because of increasingly efficient cars and a federal mandate requiring that renewable fuels, like ethanol, blended into transportation fuels must increase to 36 billion gallons in 2022, from nine billion gallons in 2008.
''When you add it up,'' Mr. Morse noted, ''you get something that very closely approximates energy independence.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO SHORTAGE: A Chesapeake Energy natural gas well near Burlington, Pa. Experts say the nation has gas reserves for 100-plus years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH WILSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (F1)
NEW OIL SUPPLIES: Pipes await use at the Devon Jackfish oil sands drilling project, left, under construction in Alberta, Canada. The country's oil sands supply more oil for North America than Saudi Arabia does. The Bakken shale field, right, near Stanley, N.D., the fastest-growing major oil field in the nation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 GAS GLUT: Drilling for gas in Washington County, Pa. Huge reserves should let the United States export natural gas in the future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



609 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Faced With Dislocation, Finding Joy in a Tunnel's Demise

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
As someone who designs fancy hats for women to wear to horse races, Christine A. Moore says she tends to see ''the silver lining in everything.''
But Ms. Moore had not held out much hope for a reprieve from the governor of New Jersey. So when the governor, Chris Christie, decided late last month to scrap a rail tunnel to Manhattan, she went from being collateral damage to one of the unintended beneficiaries.
For the past 13 years, Ms. Moore, 44, has had what other small-business owners can only dream of -- commercial space in Midtown Manhattan with a low rent and an understanding landlord. Ms. Moore was suitably distressed after learning this spring that her studio stood in the way of the proposed tunnel. 
Her showroom is tucked into the rear of the 10th floor of a cramped building on West 34th Street, across from Macy's flagship store. The 12-story building is wedged into the block, the sort of structure that New Yorkers stream past daily without ever taking notice. Officials had decided to tear it down to make room for escalators that would descend to a station to be built deep below the street. It was one of several properties whose occupants would be forced to move within the next two years.
Representatives of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey had already started knocking on doors, seeking information about leases and offering to help tenants move. Some left, rather than wait to be pushed out. Some vowed to fight eviction. Others, like Ms. Moore, held out and hoped for a reprieve.
Then late last month, Mr. Christie, a Republican, withdrew his state's support for the project. While transportation advocates wrung their hands over a decision that they called short-sighted, Ms. Moore and the operators of dozens of other small businesses rejoiced. The budget crises caused by the recession had spared them from the wrecking balls of progress. (A new proposal to extend the No. 7 subway line to New Jersey would not displace Ms. Moore and the other tenants in the area.)
''It was complete elation, not only on my part, but on the part of my customers,'' said Tom Dwyer, whose family has run the Blarney Rock pub on West 33rd Street for four decades. ''It was as if I'd won the lottery.''
Mr. Dwyer said he doubted he could find another spot that would be convenient to his clientele, a mix of commuters, blue-collar workers and fans on their way to Madison Square Garden. Plus, he said, the Port Authority was offering to pay only the value of the fixtures in the bar, not for his lost business or the cost of outfitting a 21st-century tavern.
''Can you imagine trying to move a 41-year-old bar piece by piece?'' Mr. Dwyer said.
The thought of it had left him thinking unkind thoughts about the state officials across the river. But that is all water under the George Washington Bridge now that the tunnel is dead. Governor Christie, he said, is welcome to elbow his way into the Blarney Rock any time.
''He hasn't stopped in yet,'' Mr. Dwyer said, ''but there's a pint waiting for him.''
Ms. Moore said the tunnel's end prompted her first-ever hug with the manager of her building, who had been advising tenants not to cooperate with the Port Authority. She said she had been trying to prepare for the uprooting of her business and found herself throwing away supplies that she otherwise might have kept.
''I'd think, well, I'm going to be moving anyway,'' she said.
Another tenant in the building, Mina Mann, who designs silk wraps for women, moved out at the end of September after being told that eviction was inevitable. She found space she likes better on 38th Street but said she was paying much more for it and had not fully recovered from the move. ''Moving is a nightmare,'' Ms. Mann said, sounding a bit wistful.
For Ms. Moore, timing was an essential worry. She makes hats that women wear to the Kentucky Derby and other prestigious horse races, which keeps her running without a break from January through June.
''Who wants to be forced to make a decision on somebody else's time frame?'' she said. Beyond that, she added, ''I wanted to milk the great rent as long as possible.''
As for more silver lining, Ms. Moore has already identified another benefit that emerged from the anxiety about being pushed out. Now, she said, there is more of a community feel among her neighbors and the people who work around them.
''All the U.P.S. guys, they know me when I walk down the street,'' she said. ''It's a recognition of the fact that you've been here for a long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine A. Moore in her Manhattan shop in June. It was in the path of the Hudson River tunnel that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey halted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); EVICTION (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); LOTTERIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



610 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Overload

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Immigration Hardball'' (editorial, Nov. 15) argues for a way for ''illegal immigrants to get right with the law.''
Can we not question the wisdom of promoting amnesty and continued mass immigration in the face of millions of unemployed and underemployed Americans?
Can we not cheer at the possibility of a sustainable energy future if we curtail continued population growth from immigration?
Or are we condemned to actively promote the overpopulation of the United States by countries that are unwilling to curtail their growth and that refuse to provide for their own?
Tim Aaronson El Cerrito, Calif., Nov. 15, 2010 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



611 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: After an Adventure in Newspapers, A Publisher Returns to P.R.

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
BRIAN P. Tierney is leaving the world of media to return to his roots in marketing communications.
Mr. Tierney's four years in charge of a group that owned two newspapers ended in April when lenders won an auction to take control of a bankrupt company that owned The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News. Mr. Tierney, who became a publisher after a career in public relations and advertising, is headed back in that direction as he starts a company named the Brian Communications Group.
Brian Communications, based in the Philadelphia suburb of King of Prussia, will be a holding company, initially composed of a public relations agency, Brian Public Relations, and a company, Realtime Media, specializing in digital marketing services for brands that include CNN, L'Oreal, Toys ''R'' Us and Unilever. 
Mr. Tierney is starting Brian Public Relations from scratch. He is buying Realtime Media from its current owners with the help of a venture firm, NewSpring Capital; the purchase price is not being disclosed.
''I spent time this summer deciding what I wanted to do next,'' Mr. Tierney, who is 53, said in a phone interview, and chose to ''go back into marketing because it's something I really love.''
He also wanted, he said, to ''do something entrepreneurial again'' rather than join forces with a large advertising holding company. The agencies that Mr. Tierney previously founded include Tierney Communications and the T2 Group.
Why do the new holding company and the new public relations agency bear Mr. Tierney's given name rather than his surname? The Interpublic Group of Companies owns the rights to Tierney through its ownership of Tierney Communications, an agency in Philadelphia it acquired as part of a takeover of True North Communications in 2001.
''There are millions and millions of reasons why I can't'' use the surname, Mr. Tierney said, laughing. Despite that, he added, ''I think most people will know where Brian Tierney will be found.''
(There are precedents for using only given names for agencies, among them Jerry Inc., founded by Jerry Della Femina after he left Della Femina, McNamee in a dispute with its French parent and the settlement between them stipulated he could not use his surname for subsequent agencies.)
Joining Mr. Tierney at Brian Public Relations and Realtime Media will be three executives who worked with him at the Philadelphia newspapers and their Web site, philly.com.
They are Ryan Davis, 33, president of philly.com, who becomes president at Realtime Media; Ed Mahlman, 63, chief marketing officer for the newspapers and the Web site, who becomes executive vice president at Realtime Media; and Matt Broscious, 35, vice president for public relations at Tierney Communications, who becomes senior vice president at Brian Public Relations.
''I love working with Brian; look at his track record,'' said Mr. Davis, who joined Mr. Tierney for the phone interview. ''He's a winner.''
When it was suggested that bankruptcy was not typically part of a winning record, Mr. Tierney replied that ''it was a bad time'' for media companies, particularly those that, like his, had paid large sums to buy newspapers before the recession.
Although it became clear ''two years ago that was what was going to happen,'' Mr. Tierney said, referring to the bankruptcy filing, at the bankruptcy auction ''the guys who won it bid 15 times this year's earnings.'' (The lenders, who included Credit Suisse, paid close to $140 million; the group led by Mr. Tierney paid more than $560 million in 2006.)
NewSpring Capital, based in Radnor, Pa., was an investor in Realtime Media, which had been owned by private investors. As those investors sell their stakes to Brian Communications, NewSpring will, separately, buy a stake in Brian Communications.
''We were very intrigued by Brian and what he plans next,'' said Marc R. Lederman, a partner at NewSpring Capital, particularly his interest in pursuing ''a digital strategy'' by making Realtime Media the first acquisition.
Realtime Media was founded in 1993 and has worked on online promotions, contests, sweepstakes, games and other campaigns with agencies like Digitas, Empower MediaMarketing, Ketchum, JWT, Marc USA and Porter Novelli. About a quarter of the company's revenue comes from agencies, Mr. Tierney estimated.
The digital aspects of Realtime Media, and its efforts to help advertisers build relationships with consumers, places the company ''kind of at the corner of Main and Main,'' Mr. Tierney said, ''and we see more opportunities'' in areas like social and mobile media.
For example, Mr. Tierney described a coming ''scavenger hunt'' promotion that Realtime Media is developing for Toys ''R'' Us, which consumers can play by e-mail or text messages.
The employees and executives of Realtime Media will stay on after the company becomes part of Brian Communications, he added, with the exception of William J. Reilly, chief executive. Mr. Reilly is retiring, Mr. Tierney said, and will serve as a consultant.
Mr. Tierney will become chief executive at Realtime Media and also take that post at Brian Public Relations and Brian Communications.
Brian Communications is ''open'' to additional acquisitions, Mr. Tierney said, which could be made easier by the participation of NewSpring as an investor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian P. Tierney, right, with Ryan Davis, who will become president of Realtime Media, a unit of Mr. Tierney's new company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); L'OREAL SA (92%); JERRY INC (63%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); NEWSPRING CAPITAL (56%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); OR (PAR) (92%); OR (BIT) (92%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



612 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: Solar Storm Risks Bring Disaster Plans

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
ON a March night 21 years ago, a storm brought Quebec's electric power grid to its knees.
It wasn't snow, ice or wind that caused Hydro-Quebec's high-voltage transmission system to go down, blacking out millions of customers for nine hours or more. It was a solar storm -- a blast of electrically charged gas from the sun that disrupted the Earth's magnetic field and made the grid go haywire.
As bad as this ''space weather'' was -- it even damaged a giant transformer at a nuclear power plant in New Jersey, hundreds of miles from Quebec -- scientists and engineers say much more severe storms have occurred in the past, before the development of high-voltage power grids, and are possible in the future.
In a worst case, a major geomagnetic storm ''could be perhaps the largest natural disaster this country could face,'' said John G. Kappenman, a consultant to the power industry. It could cause regionwide or larger blackouts, potentially for months, and affect grids on other continents as well. 
While the electric power industry learned much from the 1989 disturbance, and Hydro-Quebec and other utilities took steps to be better able to cope with such events, experts say that no grid anywhere is fully protected from a severe geomagnetic storm. It is difficult even to assess the risks of such events, which are very rare and potentially catastrophic.
''The concern for a utility is for these high-impact, low-probability events,'' said Luke van der Zel, a technical executive with the Electric Power Research Institute. ''Mitigation becomes challenging.''
What's more, said Mr. Kappenman, while the power industry has spent billions of dollars to ''harden'' systems against hurricanes, blizzards and other Earth-based storms, ''from the standpoint of space weather, I would argue that we have just not understood the threat.''
While grids in higher latitudes are especially vulnerable, the growth of the transmission network in the United States, which now includes about 200,000 miles of high-voltage lines, has increased the risk that a severe storm here will cause crippling damage. ''The larger you make the grid, the larger it acts like an antenna to disturbances in the Earth's magnetic field,'' said Mr. Kappenman, who served on a committee that produced a report on the risks for the North American Electric Reliability Corporation.
Higher-transmission voltages -- favored by utilities because they result in lower energy losses -- have also made grids more susceptible to damage from solar storms, said Sean Eagleton, a section manager for engineering with Con Edison, the New York-area utility company. ''Engineers are involved in tradeoffs,'' he said. ''In the process of making the system more efficient, they make it more vulnerable.''
But given the social and economic havoc that a blackout of months could wreak, engineers and scientists are starting to look more closely at the threat from a severe geomagnetic storm. Efforts are under way to improve forecasting, to give utilities more precise information about when and where a solar storm will hit and how severe the impact will be, so that grid operators can take defensive measures. And utilities and researchers are working to devise equipment and procedures to better enable transmission systems to ride out a major event.
Economics are a big issue, Mr. van der Zel said, and the costs of retrofitting hundreds or thousands of high-voltage transformers, for example, would need to be analyzed.
''The end goal is to have a risk assessment and a mitigation methodology,'' he added. ''It's a complex issue. It's not like many other risks that utilities deal with.''
A geomagnetic storm begins with an enormous burst of electrically charged gas, or plasma, from the sun. The gas travels very quickly -- on the order of a million miles an hour or faster -- and if it happens to be aimed at Earth, can reach the planet in as little as a day.
Then, strange things happen to the Earth's orderly magnetic field. It begins to fluctuate, creating differing electric potentials on the Earth's surface. From this point, a simple law of electricity follows: If the potential at one end of a transmission line is higher than the potential at the other end, dozens or even hundreds of miles away, a current will flow through the line.
It is these currents that can cause problems. They are so different from the normal currents in high-voltage lines that they interfere with the operation of the transformers -- the voltage boosters or reducers -- that are an essential part of the grid. Transformers can overheat and become damaged, or develop other problems that can cause switches within the system to trip automatically. Voltage throughout the grid can begin to drop, and unless more power can be quickly brought online -- either by starting up more generators or shunting it from another system -- the grid can collapse.
That's what happened in Quebec in 1989, and it took only 92 seconds. Fortunately most of the transformers were not permanently affected.
But in a much more severe storm -- similar to one that occurred in 1859, when other than telegraphs there was little electrical equipment to be damaged -- transformers may be destroyed or become otherwise inoperable. These are not off-the-shelf products: a typical high-voltage transformer can weigh several hundred tons and is designed and built (at a cost of up to $10 million or more) for a particular installation. So it may take months to replace them.
That's why Mr. Kappenman and others are working on ways to keep geomagnetically induced currents out of transmission lines to begin with. A device called a capacitor could be installed near each vulnerable transformer to effectively block currents from entering the transmission lines.
Capacitors are usually fairly small -- the ones on the circuit board inside a typical radio are usually smaller than a fingertip. But in transmission systems, the equipment would be roughly the size of a washing machine, and the capacitors would need to be able to be bypassed in a fraction of a second to allow conventional currents through.
''That makes for an active device, one that looks at what current is flowing and makes decisions in real time,'' Mr. van der Zel said. ''That's a lot more expensive than a passive device.''
Mr. Kappenman estimated that in the United States alone, about 5,000 vulnerable transformers would have to be retrofitted, at a cost of perhaps $100,000 each, plus installation. It would make little sense to retrofit only a few transformers; the rogue currents created by an extreme solar storm could flow here and there throughout the grid, damaging unprotected equipment.
Mr. Eagleton said Con Edison had been working with Mr. Kappenman and others and planned to test blocking devices on a few transformers. The utility already has some current-blocking experience, he said: it has to keep the current used in New York's subways, which is in some ways similar to those created by a solar storm, out of the regular transmission lines.
Mr. Eagleton said Con Edison had also worked with transformer manufacturers on design issues. With the difficulties of transporting and installing equipment in the New York City area, the utility at one time had ordered shorter transformers, so that they would fit under bridges and be otherwise easier to handle. ''But now we've moved to a design that's a little taller, and a little less vulnerable to geomagnetic disturbance,'' he said.
No one is really certain, however, how a redesigned or retrofitted transformer will perform in a severe storm. ''Unfortunately, the only way to know is to experience it,'' Mr. Eagleton said.
But more thorough research can help, Mr. van der Zel said. ''If we had a very, very large storm, would the entire grid collapse? The answer is we don't really know, because we don't have a very accurate complete network analysis. That is something that's desirable.''
More immediate, and less costly, help can come in the form of better forecasting. At NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., Antti Pulkkinen and other researchers are working to do that, running data from sun-sensing satellites in simulations that are more and more sophisticated. The project, called Solar Shield, is still experimental, but as the models are refined, Mr. Pulkkinen said, it should become fully operational within the next few years.
With it, he said, ''we can calculate exactly when this thing is going to happen and what is going to happen.'' Extremely precise information about a storm that is about to hit would give grid operators time to take measures to add redundancy to their systems -- like putting transmission lines that had been shut down for maintenance back on line, or preparing idle generators to start up again.
In the worst case, Mr. Pulkkinen said, operators might even decide to power down their systems completely, thinking that a brief, deliberate shutdown was a far better outcome than a long blackout.
Mr. Pulkkinen said two developments were helping to improve the forecasts: more and better data from satellites, and improved processing ability. ''To run these large-scale space simulations, you need a lot of horsepower from your computers,'' he said, adding that ''we are now for the first time applying physics-based models to forecast the impact of solar activities on the power grid.''
Mr. Eagleton, of Con Edison, said forecasting had something else going for it as well. ''One thing about the sun being 93 million miles away,'' he said, ''it gives you some time.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: The Forecast: Damaging Currents With a Chance of a Blackout: Depending on the amount of ejected material and its direction, a solar storm can disrupt and damage electric transmission grids on Earth. (Sources: NASA
 John Kappenman, Storm Analysis Consultants) (GRAPHICS BY MIKA GRONDAHL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WEATHER (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%)

COMPANY: HYDRO-QUEBEC (93%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



613 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK ONLINE: SEEKING ADVICE

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
The New York attorney general-elect, Eric T. Schneiderman, will have a big role in policing Wall Street, and on Tuesday he tapped several prominent Wall Street lawyers and senior aides of predecessors to help him find staff lawyers to do the job. 
At a news conference at New York University's School of Law, Mr. Schneiderman unveiled a transition committee that ''will help recruit top legal talent'' when he takes over in January.
Harlan A. Levy, a partner at Boies Schiller & Flexner, will be chairman of the committee. Three others were named as co-chairman -- Robert Abrams, a former New York attorney general and now a lawyer at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan; Janet DiFiore, the Westchester County district attorney; and Zachary W. Carter, a former United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn.
Mr. Schneiderman said he hoped the committee would ''attract the best legal talent in the nation.'' He is looking for about two dozen lawyers, some of whom he hopes will be in place when he takes office.
Various subcommittees have been established to vet resumes, but Mr. Schneiderman stressed that the panels would not make final hiring decisions.
Wall Street has been keeping a keen eye on Mr. Schneiderman, a relative unknown who assumes a post that has played a crucial role in policing the country's big banks. His predecessors, Andrew M. Cuomo and Eliot Spitzer, brought several high-profile cases against Wall Street.
Mr. Schneiderman embraced the Wall Street sheriff moniker during his campaign and used it again Tuesday. ''Being the sheriff of Wall Street is about restoring confidence,'' he said. He added while part of his mandate would be to ''weed out bad actors'' it was not necessarily about being punitive.
A Harvard educated lawyer, Mr. Schneiderman was elected to the New York State Senate in 1998. He said on Tuesday that while he had been a politician for many years, he spent the early part of his career representing Wall Street firms as a lawyer at Kirkpatrick & Lockhart.
In addition to tapping lawyers like Mr. Levy, Mr. Schneiderman announced that a former deputy attorney general, Avi Schick, would be one of three transition team directors. Other well-known names who will serve on various committees include Eric R. Dinallo, a former top aide to Mr. Spitzer who ran against Mr. Schneiderman for the Democratic nomination for attorney general; Eric O. Corngold, a former top Cuomo aide; and Geoffrey Canada, head of the Harlem Children's Zone. Committees cover several areas, including criminal justice and economic justice.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); SHERIFFS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (91%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (90%); K&L GATES LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



614 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Growth Overseas Lifts Wal-Mart Profit

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
The tepid economic recovery does not seem to be extending to many of Wal-Mart's customers in the United States, lower-income consumers who are not yet spending. The nation's largest retailer reported Tuesday that sales in its American stores open at least a year, a crucial measure of retail health, had declined for the sixth consecutive quarter.
Net income at Wal-Mart Stores rose 9.3 percent, to $3.44 billion, or 95 cents a share, in the third quarter, which ended in October, because of international growth and cost-cutting. Revenue rose 2.6 percent, to $101.95 billion.
The earnings were in line with analysts' estimates; revenue came in slightly below what analysts had expected. 
In the United States, where revenue dropped 1.3 percent in Wal-Mart stores open at least a year, a measure known as same-store sales, executives said that they were continuing with changes like increasing the number of items for sale, adding more $1-and-under products and underselling competitors.
Still, visits to Wal-Mart's American stores declined from a year ago, as did the average price paid at checkout, Wal-Mart executives said.
''They're focused on necessities and being practical with how they spend their money,'' Charles M. Holley Jr., executive vice president for finance, said of customers in a call with reporters. ''We still see what we call the paycheck cycle, where you see the spikes in comps the day or two after a payroll check,'' or after shoppers receive government payments, he said. ''It's every bit as pronounced as we've seen it.''
This summer, Wal-Mart made management changes at its United States division, putting Bill Simon in charge and replacing the head of merchandising. Mr. Simon has been increasing the inventory Wal-Mart carries, adding back merchandise that had been removed to present a less cluttered look.
''Last year we probably played our cards a little bit too close to the vest on inventory, and may have missed out on some sales -- we're trying to avoid that here in the fourth quarter,'' Wal-Mart's chief financial officer, Thomas M. Schoewe, said Tuesday.
As a result, inventory was up 6.5 percent in the third quarter in Wal-Mart's American stores, compared with the period a year ago. Mr. Schoewe said Wal-Mart was being more aggressive about having enough goods in stock for holiday shoppers. And Mr. Schoewe and Mr. Holley said that while the stores would have low prices, particularly on basics and practical gifts, they did not expect reduced profit margins in the fourth quarter.
Wal-Mart executives have said that they expect positive same-store sales in the fourth quarter, though in the earnings report, the company said the range could be from a decline of 1 percent to an increase of 2 percent. Mr. Schoewe said in the call with reporters that the focus should be on the midpoint of that range, growth of 0.5 percent.
While Wal-Mart cited economic pressures for the slow United States results, Craig Johnson, president of the consulting firm Customer Growth Partners, argued that competitors like the Aldi discount chain, dollar stores like Dollar General, Family Dollar and Dollar Tree, and Wal-Mart's own Sam's Club division all grew in the third quarter. ''Blaming the economy doesn't work,'' Mr. Johnson said in an e-mail. ''Wal-Mart U.S. has clearly been knocked back on its heels by the competition.''
In a bright spot in its American operations, the company showed growth in same-store sales of food, where Wal-Mart has added back more items than in any other category, Mr. Simon said. He cited marshmallows and pie filling as examples.
International stores continue to be a sales driver for Wal-Mart, with sales rising 9.3 percent, to $26.92 billion. Wal-Mart Mexico and Brazil had particularly strong performances.
Shares of Wal-Mart closed up 31 cents, or 0.57 percent, at $54.26, as investors were apparently encouraged by the company's fourth-quarter guidance.
Home Depot also reported earnings on Tuesday, beating analysts' expectations on profit by 3 cents. The retailer, citing cost-cutting, said its earnings rose 21 percent, to $834 million, or 51 cents a share, from $689 million, or 41 cents a share. Analysts had expected profit of 48 cents a share.
Total revenue was $16.6 billion, up 1.4 percent. Its same-store sales in the United States rose by 1.5 percent. But as with Wal-Mart in the United States, Home Depot said its average ticket -- the average amount paid at checkout -- was down, and consumers weren't buying many expensive items. Purchases under $50, which make up about 20 percent of the company's American business, rose 2.7 percent from the same period last year. But purchases of $900 and up, also about 20 percent of the business, fell 3.4 percent.
''That, in many cases, is our pro customer,'' the chief financial officer, Carol B. Tome, said in an interview. ''That's all demand-driven, and if demand is soft,'' the bigger sales will decline. ''Clearly, the basic repair business is good, and it has been good -- those are the tickets that are $50,'' she said.
Over all, store traffic, measured by the number of transactions, rose 2.5 percent, but the average amount per transaction decreased by 0.8 percent.
Home Depot raised its earnings guidance for the full year to $1.94 a share, from $1.90. But with the housing market still shaky, ''we still think this presents a picture of continued pressure in our market,'' Francis S. Blake, the chairman and chief executive, said in a call with analysts.
Shares of Home Depot rose 32 cents, or 1 percent, to $31.71.
''While investors will be pleased with the solid operating performance, it is difficult to see much improvement in the home improvement sector,'' a Sanford C. Bernstein & Company analyst, Colin McGranahan, wrote in a note to clients.
At the luxury end of the consumer sector, Saks posted a big increase in profit, as overall sales rose and it depended less on slashing prices.
Its third-quarter net income was $36.3 million, or 20 cents a share, and included a $26.7 million gain related to the reversal of certain estimated income tax reserves deemed no longer necessary. Excluding this gain, Saks would have recorded net income of $9.7 million, or 6 cents a share, compared with $6.3 million or 4 cents a share,
Sales rose 4.3 percent, to $658.8 million. Its same-store sales rose 5.7 percent, with women's categories, including dresses, shoes, apparel and fashion jewelry, performing well.
Online Correction: November 16, 2010, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misattributed a quotation from a Wal-Mart executive who said, ''They're focused on necessities and being practical with how they spend their money,'' and went on to talk about the paycheck cycle. The speaker was Charles M. Holley Jr., executive vice president for finance and treasurer, not Thomas M. Schoewe, the chief financial officer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Home Depot store in Los Angeles. The retailer beat analysts' expectations with cost-cutting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); SALES MANAGEMENT (68%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



615 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: After Cracking Down on Debt Collectors, New York State Is Now Set to Hire Them

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
In these hard times, New York's future governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, has made a point of standing alongside consumers who are down on their luck. As attorney general, he conducted a statewide crackdown on debt collectors who ran afoul of consumer protection laws, and his office encouraged consumers with their own tales of woe to contact it.
''Too often consumers find themselves in over their heads,'' reads one section of the attorney general's Web site. ''If you are one of those consumers, you may be feeling overwhelmed trying to make ends meet while paying off your bills. You may be experiencing calls from people demanding that you pay a certain debt.''
So, it may come as a jolt to learn that the office of the attorney general, consisting of the state's chief lawyers, also does a brisk business collecting debts from consumers who owe money to many state agencies and authorities -- returning about $100 million a year to the state's coffers. 
And it may come as an even bigger jolt to learn that New York State is seriously looking at handing over responsibility for some collection activity to outside bill collectors who, like many of those prosecuted by Mr. Cuomo over the last four years, would be chasing profits above and beyond the return of taxpayer money.
The outreach to private debt collection companies began in May, according to the Web site of the New York State Division of the Budget, and the division could award a contract any day.
New York State ''did terrific work in going after debt collectors, and now they're going to hire these same people and have no control over what they're going to do?'' said Johnson Tyler, a lawyer who works with the indigent for South Brooklyn Legal Services.
Others, though, support the decision to seek private help in collecting public debts.
''If the Budget Division wants to outsource it, I'm delighted,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Empire Center for New York State Policy, based in Albany, and a deputy commissioner for tax policy in the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki. He added: ''There are plenty of reputable players in that business. There are some not-reputable players, too. But presumably they would not have them do it.''
Budget Division officials have refused to divulge much information about the type of debts that will be turned over to the collection agencies. Information posted on the division's Web site suggests that the initial award will consist of at least $425 million of i.o.u.'s that are owed to a variety of state agencies but have been declared ''uncollectible'' and given up on.
Some of the more sensitive or complex debts -- those bound for court, for instance, or those owed by the mentally ill -- will remain the responsibility of the attorney general's office.
Professional debt collectors generally work like bounty hunters, keeping a set percentage of what they bring in. Veteran debt collectors said they would not be surprised if those bidding for the state contracts asked to keep 30 to 40 percent of what they collected.
''If you collect 1 out of 10, you're doing great,'' said Eric Najork, a third-generation owner of the Collection Bureau Hudson Valley in Newburgh and an official with the New York State Collectors Association.
A decision by government to turn to private debt collectors is not novel. Rozanne Andersen, chief executive of the Association of Credit and Collection Professionals, a trade group based in Minneapolis that says it represents 91,000 debt collectors across the country, said private collectors helped recoup nearly $800 million last year for the federal government. The United States Department of Education has long used private debt collectors to pursue unpaid student loans.
The industry, though, has regularly found itself a target of investigation. Spying an opportunity midway through his term as attorney general to burnish his credentials as the consumer's champion, Mr. Cuomo directed his staff to take on the bad actors in the private collection business aggressively.
At last count, 14 debt collection enterprises had been put out of business by Mr. Cuomo's office, including one whose chief official was a gun-toting felon and another who singled out service members, threatening their families and calling their commanders. The office also helped obtain criminal convictions against a dozen or so of the worst offenders, people who intimidated consumers by posing as law enforcement officers and even one man who continued to run his debt collection business from inside a federal prison.
At least six more debt collection companies signed agreements promising to mend their ways. Along the way, the attorney general's team also shut down or sued affiliated law firms, process servers and debt consolidators whose services turned out to be shams.
''At a time when New York families are already struggling with unprecedented levels of debt, unscrupulous collection agencies add salt to an open wound,'' Mr. Cuomo said in May 2009 after taking on the debt collectors.
In an effort to steer clear of debt collectors with troubled pasts, the Budget Division has declared that it will not hire any bidder that has ''an adverse determination'' against it by the state attorney general. That includes any bidder that signed a civil agreement with Mr. Cuomo requiring it to make payments to the state or affected individuals, even if there was no admission of wrongdoing.
''It's a huge decision for a state or city to make the decision to retain a third-party debt collection agency, because it is new and it is going outside their comfort zone,'' Ms. Andersen, of the debt collectors' association, said. In addition, she added, the government often tends to want to squeeze debt collectors ''and get them for the lowest fee, and that can be a prescription for disaster in terms of making the program unsuccessful.''
According to the Budget Division's Web site, the winner of the contract will be expected to track down consumers and notify them of their obligations, using three rounds or more of letters and phone calls. Consumers can be offered installment plans. But any collector that wins the state's business cannot accept less than what is owed without consulting the agency that referred the debt and the Budget Division.
The state also reserves the right to increase the amount of debt and the types of debt that may be farmed out during the maximum three-year life of the contract. So the mix could still veer into touchy areas for politicians, like hospital debt owed by those who are disabled, injured or mentally frail.
Lawyers and debt collectors say these are some of the thorniest cases in the attorney general's portfolio because of the wrenching issues they raise. State lawyers have an obligation to track down assets that could repay taxpayers for providing treatment to someone in need. That goes for state-operated psychiatric hospitals, where the charges can run $700 a day. Yet so often the people in need at such centers are either short on money or long on hardships, or both.
Add to that a fragile economy, and like it or not, the attorney general's book of business has only swelled. According to Richard Bamberger, the office's spokesman, the office recorded $64 million in civil recoveries in 1994, and the general trend has been upward. Recoveries reached a peak of $134 million in 2009 and are on track to beat that this year.
Consumer advocates and lawyers who represent the indigent are never thrilled when the attorney general goes after their clients.
But the advocates are even less enthusiastic about having private debt collectors take up the charge. ''It's a bad idea,'' said Anamaria Segura, a staff lawyer with the consumer rights project at MFY Legal Services. ''I think the state should have to collect its own debts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Doreen Melton of Lewiston, N.Y., with Andrew M. Cuomo last year, telling of the money she lost to a debt-settlement company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN CAPPELLAZZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Indebted to New York: As attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo fostered a reputation for protecting consumers from debt collectors. At the same time, he was a successful collector of debts to the state, mainly for hospital care. Civil recoveries recorded each year by the attorney general's office, 2010 dollars (Source: New York State Department of Law) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT COLLECTIONS (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WEB SITES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); OUTSOURCING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



616 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK ONLINE: IN THE MONEY

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Although Wall Street's payroll is shrinking, its profit machine is alive and well.
Profit at New York securities firms is on track to top $19 billion this year, according to an analysis released Tuesday by the New York State comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli. After suffering losses totaling $54 billion in 2007 and 2008, during the depths of the financial crisis, the securities industry has enjoyed a solid bounce. 
According to the comptroller's calculations, 2010 will be a far cry from 2009 - when securities firms recorded a combined profit of $61.4 billion. Still, the year is on track to be the fourth best ever for Wall Street profits.
Performance this year has been somewhat uneven, with more than half the profit originating in the first quarter before slipping to $3.8 billion in the second quarter. According to the report, second-quarter results were more in line with pre-crisis levels. Still, employees should enjoy rich bonus payouts.
While the bonus pool is expected to shrink from 2009, the report noted that fewer employees are expected to share the spoils because of layoffs, meaning larger checks per person. According to the analysis, job cuts on Wall Street may continue until the industry pares 38,000 positions from pre-recession levels, which would represent a 20 percent drop. From January 2008 to August 2010, the securities industry lost 31,000 jobs, the report said, leaving a work force of about 160,000.
Mr. DiNapoli predicts that the sector may not begin to add jobs until late 2011.
In a phone interview, Mr. DiNapoli said the figures represented an industry in transition, but he expected that Wall Street would emerge as a more stable industry, one less prone to wild swings.
''We're seeing a significant decline from last year's profits,'' he said. ''Some of that transition is from the enhanced regulation, but I think you're seeing the industry adjust and adapt to a new oversight framework.''
''In the short run,'' he added, ''I expect a dampening of profits, but on the positive side, with the enhanced oversight we anticipate a more steady level of profitability.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



617 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: In the Heartland, Still Investing in Coal

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Lively Grove, Ill.
ON the coasts, states are limiting carbon dioxide output, banning new coal-fired power plants and building wind turbines to fend off global warming. But here in the heartland, thousands of workers are building a $4 billion new coal plant with a 700-foot chimney, 70 feet higher than the Gateway Arch in St. Louis.
Around the country, construction of coal plants has been slowed, partly by opposition but also by the recession, which has stunted electric demand and forced cancellation or deferral of all kinds of utility projects. But numerous coal plants under construction today are likely to be pumping out carbon dioxide profusely until at least 2050, when, as President Obama would have it, American carbon output will be 80 percent lower.
And the project here is not just a power plant; it is the Prairie State Energy Campus, because it includes a vast new coal mine as well, which will supply 6.5 million tons a year. Everyone here, 40 miles southeast of St. Louis, has heard about the idea of cap and trade or other strategies for limiting carbon dioxide emissions. Some day, one might get enacted, they believe. But it does not keep them awake at night. 
What does, they say, is meeting the demand for electricity. ''We have an obligation to serve,'' said Raj Rao, the chairman of Prairie State. ''We're not going to close all the coal-fired power plants and then say, there's nothing there. If we do, then we're going to close this country, and that's not going to happen.''
In fact, the Environmental Protection Agency will begin in January requiring large carbon dioxide sources to get permits, but there is no limit on emissions.
Low natural gas prices in the last two years have increased the use of gas-fired plants. The builders here started work when the price of natural gas was higher, but companies building coal plants expect over the decades that this will be the alternative with the least cost.
Mr. Rao predicts a transition period of 30 years, which would probably be most of this plant's lifetime, and the betting is that if there is a charge on carbon, it will not be large enough to change the basic economics.
Some investor-owned utilities could profit from pollution controls, including the cost of capturing carbon dioxide, because they pass their costs on to customers. But it is worth remembering that Prairie State is 95 percent owned by municipal utilities or co-ops, which are owned by their customers. So if a calculation involved here ignores the needs of polar bears, it is being made on behalf of 2.5 million customers, in homes, shops and factories in eight Midwestern states. (Mr. Rao is president and chief executive of the Northern Illinois Municipal Power Agency; that agency also makes investment decisions for a second, smaller partner in Prairie State.)
Meantime, in 2012, Duke Energy, an investor-owned company, plans to open a $1.8 billion plant in North Carolina called Cliffside, with 825 megawatts of capacity, that is also intended to be operating in midcentury. Completion will allow Duke to close coal plants from the 1940s and 1950s with more than 1,000 megawatts of capacity.
But the amount of electricity from coal will probably rise a bit, said Tom Williams, a spokesman for Duke. Many old plants run only 25 or 30 percent of the hours in a year, he said, but the new plant will run 85 to 90 percent of the time because it will have lower costs per unit of electricity. In part, that is because, like Prairie State, it will run at higher temperatures and pressures and get more electricity from a ton of coal than the old ones did. Around the country, coal plants built in the 1940s and '50s will be retired, but one of their replacements will be new coal.
Companies like Duke are betting that new coal plants using only slightly updated technology will compete successfully over the long haul against their three obvious competitors: natural gas, new nuclear reactors and old coal plants.
Duke is also building a generating station in Edwardsport, Ind., that will run on coal but will convert it to a gas first, allowing much higher production of electricity per ton. It turns the coal to a fuel gas, which it burns in a device resembling a jet engine.
The Duke plant is engineered to allow the addition of equipment to capture much of the carbon dioxide from the fuel gas. But so far, there is no commitment to add that equipment. Duke is seeking approval from regulatory authorities to bill customers for the cost of looking for a place to sequester the carbon dioxide if it were separated.
One keen observer of Edwardsport and others that could capture carbon dioxide is Denbury Resources, a company that buys carbon dioxide and injects it into oil fields in the Gulf Coast to make them produce more oil. Today, it pumps to the surface natural deposits of carbon dioxide. But it is building one pipeline to gather carbon dioxide from industrial sources and is exploring other pipelines.
Ronald T. Evans, Denbury's president and chief operating officer, said that in the absence of carbon rules, traditional coal plants that did not capture carbon dioxide were still economical and strong. ''I don't think you're going to see a massive reduction in coal,'' he said.
Gathering carbon dioxide would be much easier from plants that gasify the coal, as Edwardsport will do. But at the Gasification Technologies Council, a trade group based in Washington, James Childress, the executive director, said he was not optimistic that many coal plants would switch to gasification.
Traditional coal plants like Prairie State, which pulverize coal into a fine powder and burn it, will dominate, he said. ''The primary reason is the Clean Air Act allows it,'' he said. And while some old coal plants may close as regulation of traditional pollutants like sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides gets tighter, many existing plants will run for years, he and others said. ''If you have the installed base, these are cash cows; they're paid off,'' he said. ''They're not going to change anything here.''
Is it sensible to build new ones? ''They think that over the long haul, coal is a good bet and it's going to be a lower-cost alternative to natural gas,'' he said. Does he agree that it is rational to build a plant that will emit copious amounts of carbon dioxide for decades? ''The way the debate is going in this country, they may be right,'' he said. ''My opinion is that in the absence of a clear and present danger, it's going to be very difficult for a national policy'' on carbon, he said. Some states will take steps to limit emissions, but ''the coal states certainly aren't going to.''
At the National Energy Technology Laboratory in Pittsburgh, part of the Energy Department, Kenneth C. Kern, the director of the office of systems, analyses and planning, described a series of plants coming into service between now and 2013. He said, ''For the most part, this is simply playing out the plants that began development four or five years ago during the blip in interest in coal, in '05 and '06.''
Global warming was not a foreign concept in those years, but high prices for natural gas at the time seemed a much more concrete factor, experts said. In fact, natural gas rose to $12 per million B.T.U.'s, a quantity sufficient to make about 150 kilowatt-hours, but has lately traded in the range of $3 to $4. ''Right now, gas is uniquely low,'' Mr. Kern said.
After 2012, based on construction work under way, there will be a dearth of completions, he said.
Tom Smith, known as Smitty, is the Texas director of Public Citizen and has been fighting new coal and nuclear plants for years. He counts five coal plants under construction and four that have recently become operational. But it is the last gasp, he argued. For one thing, the price of natural gas is now so low that nothing else can compete, and for another, changes in federal policy have made it harder for co-ops and municipal electric companies to borrow money for coal.
''The underlying assumption may have changed,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Regulators have jumped to the same conclusion as smart money, that coal is too risky to fund anymore, so there are fewer and fewer of these folks who are getting money.''
But old coal plants, paid for years ago, can produce energy at low cost, sometimes as cheap as 2.5 cents a kilowatt-hour. A carbon price of $25 a ton could add 2.5 cents per kilowatt-hour, said Mr. Kern of the Energy Department. Some old coal plants could still be profitable in competitive markets at peak summer periods, when prices on the wholesale market go much higher. (The national average retail price of a kilowatt-hour at retail is about 10 cents.)
The challenge for old coal plants at the moment is not so much the threat of carbon taxes as new E.P.A. rules on emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and particulates, and disposal of coal ash.
Some say that some decisions made in 2005 and 2006 are going to look pretty silly later. One reason is that the demand for electricity and its price are down all over the middle of the country, because of the recession.
''If you look at the likely pricing for the power from that plant in the next 5 to 10 years,'' said Howard A. Learner, executive director of the Environmental Law and Policy Center in Chicago, ''and if you assume on top of that any serious price for carbon, it's hard to see why that could possibly have been a smart decision.''
But Mr. Rao and some independent observers have another interpretation. Prairie State uses newer technology and will produce a kilowatt-hour for each 9,000 B.T.U.'s of heat. Some older plants require 12,000 B.T.U.'s.
Over all, Prairie State will need 15 percent less fuel, and emit 15 percent less carbon dioxide, per unit of energy sold. That means that even without rules on carbon dioxide, Prairie State will be very successful in the daily auction for electricity sales and will be chosen first to run, like a tall schoolyard basketball player who always gets chosen first in a pickup game.
On the other hand, if Washington gets tough with carbon dioxide, it will be a burden for Prairie State, but much worse for older plants, and Prairie State will be called on even more.
The only nonutility partner in the project, Peabody Coal, which acted as the developer, stresses that point. Vic Svec, a company spokesman, said one reason Peabody played that role was ''to help set the template that it was safe to build new coal plants.''
The project, he argues, is like a ''private stimulus project,'' providing lots of high-wage employment for skilled workers from around the country.
In fact, John Foster, a boilermaker from Belleville Ill., who has been on the Prairie State job for two years, describes the work site as ''kind of like a 'Field of Dreams.' ''
''If you look out here at 6:30 in the morning, all you see is headlights,'' he said, comparing it to the 1989 movie with Kevin Costner, who builds a baseball diamond amid corn fields about as remote as the fields here.
The site is crawling with welders, pipefitters, carpenters, electricians, crane operators, cement layers, inspectors, supervisors and a dozen other kinds of specialists.
It is one of the largest new power plants in the United States. And while it will be vastly cleaner in its output of conventional pollutants, it is not using cutting-edge technology, called ''ultra supercritical.'' That technology can cut coal consumption, and carbon dioxide production, even more, but the builders already own all the coal.
It is in a seam seven feet thick covering about 35 square miles, a mere 200 to 250 feet below the surface, and no swing in the market price of coal or railroad bottleneck will affect their access.
It was not hard for the project to attract experienced workers and managers, and while many of them think a further slowdown is coming, they do not think this project will be the last.
And they make no excuses. The project's Web site proclaims, ''We'd love it'' if the plant could use wind rather than coal, but that there isn't nearly enough wind, and ''we'll need to live in the real world until we reach ecotopia.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN DEVELOPMENT: The interior of a boiler at the Prairie State Energy Campus. The plant will use traditional technology, pulverizing coal and burning it. (F1)
 MAJOR INVESTMENT: Above, the electrostatic precipitator at the Prairie State Energy Campus. The campus, left, will have not only a power plant, but also a new coal mine that will supply 6.5 million tons a year. Below, pipes in a boiler building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (92%); COAL INDUSTRY (91%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



618 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: For-Profit College

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nowhere in ''Scrutiny and Suits Take a Toll on For-Profit College Company'' (front page, Nov. 10) is there any mention of learning -- though that's what keeps students coming to Kaplan Higher Education and has launched 275,000 graduates into better lives and careers. 
Kaplan has brought innovation and excellence to a population of largely low-income students who don't usually have access to either, and the results are striking.
Our graduation rates for the higher-risk population we serve are 15 percentage points higher than the national average for comparable students, and we do it at a taxpayer cost less than half that of traditional institutions.
Rather than focusing on the questionable complaints of a handful of serial plaintiffs, the article should have focused on how institutions like Kaplan are bringing new choices to underserved students, complementing a traditional higher education system that is straining to keep up with the economy's need for a more educated work force.
Andy Rosen Chairman and Chief Executive Kaplan Inc. Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Nov. 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATION RATES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: KAPLAN INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (85%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



619 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits of Solar With the Beauty of Trees

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
DAVIS, Calif.
IN this environmentally conscious college town, thousands of bicyclists commute each day through a carefully cultivated urban forest whose canopy shields riders and their homes from the harsh sun of this state's Central Valley.
The intensity of that sunshine also makes Davis an attractive place to generate clean green energy from rooftop solar panels. And therein lies a conundrum. Tapping the power of the sun can also mean cutting down some of those trees.
''Davis has spent many, many decades getting trees planted and improving energy efficiency by virtue of shade trees that cool houses,'' said Mitch Sears, the city's sustainability program manager. ''But if you want solar energy, it's not rocket science that you need the sun.''
Now a San Francisco company, CleanPath Ventures, is promoting a solution to allow homeowners to keep their trees and go solar at the same time. CleanPath plans to expand its existing solar farm on the city's outskirts and then sell ''garden plots'' to homeowners who would own the electricity generated by their patch of photovoltaic panels. Apartment dwellers and other residents whose homes are not suitable for rooftop solar arrays would also be able to own a piece of the power plant. 
''If you moved down the block, you'd take the electricity production with you just like if you make an investment in a community garden, wherever you live you'll benefit from what's grown in the garden,'' said Matt Cheney, a longtime financier of renewable energy and the founder of CleanPath Ventures.
Community solar power plants are seen as a way to expand the availability of renewable energy while taking advantage of the economies of scale that result from installing thousands of solar panels in a central location rather than scattered on thousands of individual homes.
''To get the energy benefits of solar there's no reason to drill holes in a roof,'' said Jim Burke, manager of the SolarShares program for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District, which serves the region surrounding the state capital.
The utility, known as SMUD, started SolarShares, one of the nation's first community solar-power-plant programs, in July 2008 when it offered customers the opportunity to buy electricity from a 1.2-megawatt photovoltaic power plant built on a turkey farm southeast of Sacramento.
''People love solar, but we required you to own a roof'' and that it face a certain way, said Mr. Burke. ''Multifamily buildings were usually excluded and renters were excluded.''
Then there was the tree issue.
''SMUD has planted hundreds of thousands of trees to shade rooftops and then with solar we're saying cut them down,'' he noted.
The SolarShares program gives customers the option of buying power from a half-kilowatt or a one-kilowatt portion of the solar farm. For instance, for a household that uses 2,158 kilowatt-hours a year, a one-kilowatt solar system would cover about 81 percent of their electricity consumption and cost $21.50 a month. However, the household would receive a monthly credit for the solar electricity produced that would average $13.96.
The pilot SolarShares program sold out within six months and there's now a waiting list, according to Mr. Burke.
He said SMUD was planning a one-megawatt community solar-power plant that would be built next year and was exploring the placement of up to four megawatts of solar farms on highway rights-of-way owned by the state transportation agency.
Like a community solar farm in St. George, Utah, and a proposed solar garden in Falmouth, Mass., the CleanPath project in Davis would offer residents the chance to buy a physical part of a solar farm.
The Davis City Council in September passed a resolution supporting the expansion of an existing solar power plant, known as P.V.U.S.A. -- Photovoltaics for Utility Scale Applications -- from around 1 megawatt to 15 megawatts. CleanPath Ventures is seeking a federal loan guarantee to build the project, according to Mr. Cheney.
Surrounded by farmland, the original P.V.U.S.A. facility was built in 1987 by Pacific Gas and Electric as a test bed for photovoltaic technologies. It was eventually acquired by one of Mr. Cheney's companies, which sells the electricity generated by the power plant to the city. Today it is a working museum of photovoltaic history, where jackrabbits bound between two-story solar panel arrays that continue to generate electricity as well as defunct futuristic-looking devices destined for the technological scrap heap.
While Davis's municipal code bars the planting of trees that would shade existing rooftop solar panels, the city's Tree Commission cannot authorize the removal of a tree to permit the installation of a photovoltaic array.
Many older neighborhoods ''have well-established tree canopies,'' said Mr. Sears, adding, ''I started thinking of how we might be able to take advantage of the expansion of P.V.U.S.A. and allow property owners to buy into the project directly.''
He cautioned that the program was in the early stages of planning and the community's interest in purchasing a stake in the P.V.U.S.A. project and the financing mechanism still had to be determined. (Mr. Cheney favors adding a surcharge to participants' water bills.) The city would also need to obtain a change in state law to allow it to buy more electricity from an expanded solar farm.
Tree Davis, a prominent local group that promotes the planting of an urban forest, has not taken a position on the solar-tree issue, according to Keren Costanzo, its executive director.
Another unknown, according to Mr. Sears, is the economic impact on local residential solar installers should people opt to buy a plot in a solar farm rather than put panels on their roofs.
But Danny Kennedy, founder of Sungevity, an Oakland, Calif., solar installer that operates in Davis, said the potential solar market remained vast.
''We are not worried this will cannibalize our business -- on the contrary it will lift all boats by raising awareness of the benefits of solar electricity,'' Mr. Kennedy said in an e-mail.
Jonathan Bass, a spokesman for SolarCity, a Silicon Valley solar installer that also works in Davis, noted that his company had built a solar farm in Arizona for a housing development.
''Solar gardens are an interesting concept as a way to allow those who can't directly produce solar electricity on their properties, such as most renters, to participate in clean power production,'' he said an in e-mail.
Mr. Cheney, who grew up in Davis, said it made no sense to cut down trees that cooled homes and thus reduced the need to turn on electricity-hogging air-conditioners during the Central Valley's sweltering summers.
''As long as I've been alive, they've been planting trees in Davis and they have this wonderful canopy,'' he said. ''If you have a beautiful oak tree over your house, I can guarantee that you don't want to cut that thing down, but you do want solar.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COMMUNITY SOLAR PLOTS: Matt Cheney, left, the founder of CleanPath Ventures, with Mitch Sears, a Davis, Calif., environmental official. CleanPath has found a way to allow homeowners to keep their trees and still have solar panels.
 SAVE THE TREES: Davis, Calif., is protective of the trees that it has spent years planting to shade homes from the harsh sun in the Central Valley. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); GARDENING (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%)

COMPANY: SACRAMENTO MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



620 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Wholesale Prices Rise, Led by Gasoline

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Wholesale prices rose in October for the fourth consecutive month because of higher gasoline costs, but there was little sign of inflation as the cost of food, cars and computers all fell.
The Labor Department said Tuesday that the Producer Price Index rose 0.4 percent last month, the same increase as in September and August. Wall Street analysts had expected a larger increase. The index is up by 4.3 percent in the past 12 months.
But excluding the volatile food and energy categories, the so-called core index fell by 0.6 percent, the most in more than four years. That decline was driven by falling prices for new cars and trucks. 
The report, which measures prices on goods before they reach the consumer, showed that companies have little ability to pass on the higher costs they are paying for grains and other commodities. Food prices fell slightly, confounding economists' expectations that they would rise due to higher costs for corn, soybeans and sugar.
The drop in the core index was largely a result of lower prices for new cars and pickup trucks. Car prices fell by a seasonally adjusted 3 percent, the department said, and pickup truck prices fell by 4.3 percent. Both were the biggest drops in about four years.
The department incorporates the price impact of the new model cars that automakers introduce each year in the October index. New car prices rose last month, but by less than in previous years. Under the department's seasonal adjustment process, that translates into a lower price.Consumers responded by purchasing carsat the healthiest pace since the cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009. Sales at auto dealerships rose by 5 percent in October, the Commerce Department said Monday.
Grain prices rose last month, the department said, but food companies aren't yet passing on those increases to consumers. Corn prices rose 22.7 percent and soybeans were up 10.9 percent. But beef and veal costs, which can rise when feed grains are more expensive, fell by 5.8 percent, the Labor Department said.
With unemployment high and the economy weak, retailers won't risk chasing away frugal shoppers by raising prices.
Gas prices rose by 9.8 percent, the most since January. The cost of diesel and home heating oil also rose.
With prices largely in check, the Federal Reserve said earlier this month that it would purchase $600 billion in government bonds over the next eight months in an effort to lower longer-term interest rates. Some critics have charged that the program could push inflation higher.
When it announced the program, the Fed said ''measures of underlying inflation are somewhat low'' compared to levels it considers consistent with price stability.
In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said Tuesday that industrial production was unchanged in October, even as manufacturers revved up to produce more big-ticket goods for consumers and businesses.
A drop in output by utilities offset factory growth.
The Fed said output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities was flat last month after falling by 0.2 percent in September. That was its first decline since the recession ended.
The key manufacturing sector gained 0.5 percent last month, led by increased output of long-lasting goods like autos, appliances and business equipment.
The Fed said factory production edged up by 0.1 percent in September. Earlier reports said manufacturing edged down that month.
Production by utilities in October fell by 3.4 percent, as warm weather eased demand for electricity and gas heat. Mining slipped lower by 0.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); WHOLESALE PRICES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); HEATING OIL (73%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



621 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Google Sees Rules Violations In Limits on Internet Access

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER; Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong and Claire Cain Miller from San Francisco. Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting from Beijing.

 BODY:
With China evidently in its sights, Google has released a policy paper contending that countries that limit Internet users' access to information providers outside their borders violate their World Trade Organization commitments.
The company did not single out China in the position paper. But Google has had a running battle with Beijing over censorship, and many of the examples cited in the paper came from the company's experiences with China.
The paper was published online Monday but went largely unnoticed until bloggers started writing about it Tuesday. 
Bob Boorstin, Google's public policy director, made the free-trade link forcefully in a posting on Google's public policy blog, although he stopped short of mentioning China specifically.
''The premise is simple,'' he wrote in a statement posted on the blog with a link to the paper. ''In addition to infringing human rights, governments that block the free flow of information on the Internet are also blocking trade and economic growth.''
Mr. Boorstin went on to call for Western officials to challenge trade barriers to information. ''In the paper we're releasing today, we urge policy makers in the United States, European Union and elsewhere to take steps to break down barriers to free trade and Internet commerce,'' Mr. Boorstin wrote.
James Seymour, a specialist in Chinese politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said that invoking W.T.O. rules ''suggests that Google is fed up, and willing to play hardball.''
The Google policy paper said that more than 40 governments around the world now to some extent restrict freedom of information on the Internet -- which it said was more than a tenfold increase in the last decade of governments with such restrictions.
Besides China, others include India, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Vietnam.
Google's country list came from the OpenNet Initiative, a joint project of Harvard University, the University of Toronto and the SecDev Group, a Canadian Consulting company.
In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Boorstin said he hoped the paper might resonate with trade officials currently negotiating the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership -- a Pacific rim free-trade pact that is being pushed by the United States. The partnership was a topic last weekend in Yokohama, Japan, at a meeting of the 21-nation Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group, of which China and the United States are members.
The White House, Mr. Boorstin said, has referred to the Trans-Pacific Partnership as ''the first full-fledged trade pact of the 21st century, and we want to make sure that it reflects the 21st century economy.''
Until January, as an accommodation to Beijing's policy, Google was censoring search results delivered to computers in China. But in March, reconsidering that approach, the company curtailed its operations in China and began directing Internet users there to its site in Hong Kong. A former British colony, Hong Kong maintains freedom of speech and other individual liberties despite its return to Chinese sovereignty in 1997.
Since March, Google has lobbied Beijing with little success for unfettered access to the Chinese market.
Even before it pulled out of the mainland, Google was losing market share to a Chinese rival, Baidu. And it has lost further market share since then. The latest industry estimates suggest that Google, which before March had about one-third of the mainland market for Internet searches, now has only about one-fifth, with Baidu having the rest.
Kaiser Kuo, the director of international communications for Baidu, said it was wrong to suggest that China's controls on the Internet were unfairly helping his company.
''Google no longer incurs the costs of censorship that we continue to incur; those costs include not only hardware, software and manpower but most importantly the time of our very senior managers,'' Mr. Kuo said. ''We should not labor under the illusion that censorship is some sort of competitive advantage to Baidu.''
Google's public policy paper emphasized that when the W.T.O. was created in 1995, international free trade rules were broadened in many ways to cover services like Internet search. But Chinese officials have consistently said that their commercial policies comply fully with all W.T.O. rules.
Google joins a growing chorus of critics of China on trade grounds. The Obama administration opened a broad investigation last month of whether China had violated W.T.O. rules by reportedly subsidizing exports of solar panels, wind turbines and other clean energy products.
Nefeterius Akeli McPherson, a spokeswoman for the Office of the United States Trade Representative in Washington, on Tuesday declined to address the details of Google's complaint. But in a released statement, she said, ''Google's paper underscores the fact that the growth and competitiveness of the U.S. information industry, a major factor in our long-term prosperity, depends on access to foreign markets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); KANTO, JAPAN (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



622 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Dunkin' Brands Adds to Debt

BYLINE: By LISA LEE, TIMOTHY SIFERT and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
The buyout barons behind Dunkin' Donuts are partly cashing in. Nearly five years after one of that era's most aggressive leveraged buyouts, Bain Capital, the Carlyle Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners are adding onto the debt on Dunkin' Brands, which owns the doughnut chain and the ice cream retailer Baskin-Robbins. They are taking out a $500 million dividend in the process. The equity holders may get a short-term buzz, but debt investors should beware.
The refinancing will leave Dunkin' with a ratio of more than seven on debt to Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), Moody's estimates, a burden even in the best of circumstances. 
True, it is a lighter load than the original leverage level of more than eight, when the three private equity firms bought the company for $2.4 billion. But circumstances are different, and banks and investors are supposed to have learned the dangers of too much debt.
Dunkin's new debt holders probably take comfort in the fact that the company managed the most severe recession in memory despite being loaded up with debt. It increased its franchise numbers by 3.7 percent during 2009 and spent this year adding more.
Sales are up as well. Growth, however, has slowed since 2006 to 2008, when the private equity owners polished Dunkin' Donuts' image and pushed into coffee sales. It is questionable whether similar rates of expansion can be achieved again.
Also, the new debt costs more than the original package. Back then, Lehman Brothers and JPMorgan Chase engineered a cheap securitization of franchise royalty fees that was backed by Ambac, the long-since-hobbled bond insurer that finally filed for bankruptcy last week. Dunkin's interest bill looks sure to be several times higher than it was. That will leave the company less financial room to maneuver if performance softens.
Of course, in an ultralow interest rate environment, debt investors and lenders are chasing yield, and riskier credits like Dunkin' Brands provide more of that than safer instruments. But longer term, these particulars could present a health risk to creditors.
California Bonds
When Ireland and Greece run big budget deficits, debt investors get angry. But when California says it will need more than $20 billion to balance its budget, bond buyers stay cool. The state is marketing $10 billion of short-term paper to big and small investors at interest rates that would make Dublin or Athens green with envy.
Despite a municipal bond market that has suffered in recent days from heavy supply, California hopes to pay a yield of 1.5 percent or less on its new notes, roughly matching what it paid on similar debt last year. Demand is not as robust as it was then.
But considering that the state legislature's dithering over the last budget after lawmakers blew the deadline by 100 days, it is remarkable that investors haven't been more demanding. After all, California's fiscal woes are far from over. The state's Legislative Analysts Office projects a $25.4 billion shortfall this year and next and chronic $20 billion gaps through 2016.
Rising borrowing costs can snap legislators out of any complacency, but investors in California debt aren't showing any sign of forcing yields sharply higher. That is partly because there is little reason to believe that the state will default.
The state's constitution mandates that investors in its long-term debt be paid before almost everyone else, the exception being the education system. It also has built-in flexibility to honor its short-term commitments. With debt service costs expected to peak below 10 percent of revenue, California should not have to stretch to stay current on its interest payments.
That means buy-and-hold investors -- a good portion of municipal bond buyers -- can feel comfortable donning their earplugs when talk of bankruptcy and default inevitably re-emerges around California's budget negotiations. Investors in local municipal debt, however, cannot afford to be so sanguine. Counties, for example, are heavily dependent on state financing. Any cuts from Sacramento could put them on shakier ground.
There are limits to investors' patience. If California were to lose its top-notch ratings for short-term debt, for example, money market funds -- big buyers of such debt -- would have to stop loading up. For now, though, voters and taxpayers will have to whip state government into shape. The bond market isn't likely to help them much.
LISA LEE, TIMOTHY SIFERT and AGNES T. CRANE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The owners of Dunkin' Brands are taking $500 million out of the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EBITDA (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BONDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); ICE CREAM (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); COFFEE & TEA (72%); RETAILERS (72%); SECURITIZATION (72%); ROYALTIES (71%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); RECESSION (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); COFFEE (64%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (97%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (97%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (97%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (66%); ATHENS, GREECE (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (77%); GREECE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



623 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Obama Deficit Panel Gets Some Competition

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A bipartisan group will present a deficit-reduction plan on Wednesday that goes beyond the spending cuts and tax proposals from the chairmen of President Obama's fiscal commission. It also calls for a one-year holiday from Social Security payroll taxes to encourage hiring and for a national sales tax to reduce deficits.
Like the draft report from the commission chairmen, the new plan outlines the tough choices that are required to shrink the projected growth of the federal debt -- choices on spending and taxes that few lawmakers, for all their campaign talk against deficits, actually embrace. 
The latest plan would reduce projected deficits by nearly $5.9 trillion from 2012 through 2020. It was approved unanimously by a panel led by former Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, who was the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee for more than a quarter-century, and Alice M. Rivlin, who served both Congress and President Bill Clinton as budget director.
The plan provides $2 trillion more in savings than the draft proposal from the commission chairmen, former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming and Erskine Bowles, a former chief of staff in the Clinton White House. The commission is debating that plan this week to meet a Dec. 1 deadline to report to the president.
''This problem is so big, so obvious and yet so hard to solve,'' Mr. Domenici said in an interview. ''And it's not going to be solved unless and until the leadership on both sides and the president decide that it is big enough to be considered a war.''
But because ''we haven't done everything we should'' to bring down unemployment, he said, the plan would excuse workers and employers in 2011 from the 12.4 percent payroll tax they split to pay for Social Security. That idea, which many economists favor and the Congressional Budget Office estimates would create 2.5 million to 7 million jobs, had been considered by the White House and Congress but repeatedly shelved, largely because of its cost -- about $650 billion -- and because it would reduce the revenues that go to Social Security.
After 2012, the plan would reimburse Social Security with general Treasury revenues, including money raised from a 6.5 percent national Deficit Reduction Sales Tax.
The plan would repeal or modify many tax breaks both to reduce income tax rates for individuals and corporations and to raise revenues -- a trade-off also proposed by Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson. Individuals would be taxed at either 15 percent or 27 percent of their income, instead of the six rates, up to 35 percent, they face now; the corporate rate would drop to 27 percent from 35 percent.
Popular deductions for mortgage interest and charitable giving would be replaced with refundable 15 percent tax credits, extending such benefits to taxpayers who do not itemize their returns and reducing them for those in higher tax brackets.
Over all, Medicare and Medicaid growth would be limited; some benefits would be reduced, and out-of-pocket expenses would increase for Medicare beneficiaries.
To make Social Security solvent through the end of the century, the plan would increase payroll tax revenues from affluent taxpayers and reduce future retirees' benefits except for low-income people. Unlike the Bowles-Simpson plan, it would not raise the retirement age.
The plan would freeze other spending, saving an estimated $1.1 trillion from military programs and $1 trillion from domestic programs through 2020.
The proposal is a project of the Bipartisan Policy Center, which was founded by four former Senate majority leaders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SALES TAX (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CHARITIES (67%); INCOME TAX (65%); CHARITABLE GIVING (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); PETE DOMENICI (57%); ERSKINE BOWLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



624 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Cheney, Together Again at Groundbreaking

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
DALLAS -- With the turn of a shovel and a few turns of phrase, former President George W. Bush culminated an elaborately orchestrated return to the public stage on Tuesday with a presidential library groundbreaking and a reunion with former Vice President Dick Cheney.
In their first public appearance together since leaving office, Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney heaped praise on each other, putting behind them the tension of their final days in the White House when they fought over the president's refusal to pardon the vice president's ex-chief of staff. In his new memoir, Mr. Bush wrote that he worried that the fight had fractured their friendship. 
Addressing a crowd of 2,500 supporters and Bush administration veterans, Mr. Cheney said the response to Mr. Bush's book showed that the country had begun to re-evaluate him.
''Two years after you left office, judgments are a little more measured than they were,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''When times have been tough or the critics have been loud, you've always said you had faith in history's judgment, and history is beginning to come around.''
Mr. Bush responded by hailing his No. 2 and recalling the decision to ask him to be the running mate in 2000. ''As I stand here,'' Mr. Bush said, ''there is no doubt in my mind he was the right pick then, he was a great vice president of the United States and I'm proud to call him friend.''
Until this week, Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney had seen each other just once in private since President Obama was inaugurated. Mr. Cheney's attendance was a rare public appearance since his long hospital stay for heart trouble this year. He appeared much thinner in his face and body, more hesitant in his gait, and he used a cane, although he put it aside when it came time to approach the lectern. After the speeches and ceremonial dirt turning, he quickly departed, while other luminaries lingered.
His daughter Liz Cheney said Mr. Cheney, 69, was gaining back his strength. ''He lost weight when he was in the hospital this summer, as most people do, but he is feeling great and enjoying working on his book, and hanging out with his grandkids,'' she said after the event.
His dry wit seemed intact as he took a poke at Mr. Obama's recent admission that there were no such things as shovel-ready public works projects. Referring to the groundbreaking, he said, ''This may be the only shovel-ready project in America.''
Mr. Bush, on the other hand, left his successor unscathed, as he has since leaving Washington.
''I believe the ultimate responsibility of a leader is to not do what is easy or popular but to do what is necessary and right,'' Mr. Bush told the crowd. ''The decisions of governing are on another president's desk, and he deserves to make them without criticism from me. But staying out of current affairs and politics does not mean staying out of policy.''
Mr. Bush plans to use a public policy institute that will be housed at the center along with the traditional presidential library and museum to advance four causes he adopted as his own while in office: human freedom, global health, economic growth and education. He has also started a women's initiative led by his wife, Laura Bush.
''He's energized,'' Andrew H. Card Jr., his first White House chief of staff, said in an interview. ''He's very much at peace. He's reliving, but he's not second-guessing. And he's not opining. This is not a political event.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George W. Bush and his wife, Laura, flanked by Condoleezza Rice and Dick Cheney, at the presidential library groundbreaking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LM OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBRARIES (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



625 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Gains May Not Aid Nuclear Power

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
THE outspoken supporters of nuclear power are mostly Republicans, and the Republicans are about to take control of the House of Representatives and gain six seats in the Senate. Is this good news for nuclear power?
Maybe. But the outlook for a new wave of reactors is still mixed at best.
Many prominent Republicans say the United States should embark on a building campaign. Senator John McCain of Arizona, as the party's 2008 presidential nominee, called for 45 more reactors by 2030, and Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, wants 100 more reactors by then. 
But the party dislikes something that the nuclear industry needs: global warming rules. Republican progress in the midterm elections probably dooms prospects for a cap-and-trade system on carbon dioxide emissions for now.
A price of, say, $20 a ton on carbon emissions would give coal-fired power plants a handicap of about 2 cents a kilowatt-hour and natural gas-fired plants about a penny a kilowatt-hour, large sums for a commodity that sells for an average of 10 cents a kilowatt-hour. Under such a system, nuclear power would face no charges.
And while various Republicans may want to see reactors built, the government does not build them; private companies do.
''The business environment is a principal driver in what the future of nuclear energy is in the United States,'' Alex Flint, the senior vice president for government affairs at the industry's trade association, the Nuclear Energy Institute, said recently. ''How long is the recession going to last?'' he asked. ''What impact is that going to have on the overall economy? When are we going to see demand forecasts pick up?''
A related question is when the price of natural gas, a competing fuel, will rise.
These considerations weigh on more than just nuclear reactor construction. ''There's a whole lot of solar and wind that ain't happening now too,'' said Stewart Brand, the creator of the Whole Earth Catalog and a Silicon Valley commentator, who favors more reactors. The ''nuclear renaissance'' may seem mostly stalled, he said, but ''a fair question to ask is, what's the state of the wind renaissance?''
An event in New York just before the election illustrates the problem. Electricite de France, eager to build in this country, ended a partnership with Constellation Energy, of Baltimore, to build a third unit at Constellation's Calvert Cliffs complex in Maryland, because Constellation said that, with the loan terms that the Energy Department was offering, the economics were not favorable for a ''merchant'' plant that would sell its output in the daily power auction.
In the breakup, the French company acquired a site for a reactor, adjacent to the Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station reactors, near Oswego, N.Y.
But the price of electricity in the wholesale market in New York has crashed, at least in the short term. It fell from about $95 a megawatt hour in 2008 to $47 last year, and has only partly recovered. The election will not change that, unless the economy revives sharply, and the manufacturing sector, always a huge consumer of power, comes back.
Robert E. Curry Jr., a member of the New York State Public Service Commission, said he could not discuss the Oswego site because the issue might come before the commission, but he spoke about the Maryland plant.
''If you've got Calvert Cliffs 3, a merchant plant, that's likely going to cost north of $10.5 billion, and a loan guarantee of $8.5 billion, then you then have to borrow much of the balance, $2 billion,'' he said. ''With natural gas prices as suppressed as they are, what kind of revenues can you pledge to lenders where the marginal price of electricity is set by gas?''
''It's almost unfinanceable in today's environment,'' he said. ''I don't see how the election changes that for good or ill.''
Another indication that the problem may be beyond the powers of Congress comes from Exelon, the nation's largest nuclear reactor operator, which is not planning any new reactors now.
John W. Rowe, the chairman of Exelon, said recently that his company would not break ground until the price of natural gas was more than double today's level and carbon emissions cost $25 a ton.
Nationwide, ground has been broken for just four reactors, two twin-unit nuclear plants since the 1970s. Work is limited to digging the foundations and other site preparation, but both expect that within a few months they will get licenses to construct and operate their reactors. Both are in locations that are insulated from the market, in Georgia and South Carolina. In both locations, the business risk rests with the ratepayers, not with the shareholders.
Two proposals were selected by the Energy Department for potential government help, in the form of loan guarantees, one in Texas and the other the Calvert Cliffs project in Maryland. In both places, most electricity is sold in a daily auction, and prices are depressed by gas prices.
A Republican House may push Congress toward two steps that would help the nuclear industry: reviving the Yucca Mountain project, which might promise a long-term solution for nuclear waste, and providing more money for loan guarantees and perhaps easing the terms the federal government demands for those guarantees.
But President Obama was already enthusiastic about more loan guarantees. And as for Yucca, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, is bitterly opposed, and he survived the Republican tide.
The Energy Department sought to revoke its application for a license for Yucca, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission had begun preliminary work on determining whether it will let the Energy Department do that. In the meantime, Mr. Obama appointed a commission to consider alternative uses for spent nuclear fuel, including recycling options, and a draft report is expected in May. But it is not looking for new sites.
The commission could take other steps, such as endorsing reprocessing, in which uranium and plutonium that can be used in reactors is scavenged from the used fuel, or it could recommend advanced reactors that would destroy the long-lived wastes. Some Republicans favor those ideas.
John Reed, an investment banker who specializes in nuclear power plant sales, said the new Congress might ''have more of an appetite to tackle the issue now.''
''Right now we have zero solutions,'' he added. ''Anything would be an improvement.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%)

COMPANY: ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (56%)

TICKER: EDF (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (56%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (52%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



626 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: What the New Arms Treaty Would Do

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Why Rush to Cut Nukes?,'' by John R. Bolton and John Yoo (Op-Ed, Nov. 10):
President Obama signed the New Start treaty earlier this year after the 15-year-old Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, which helped stabilize and improve the relationship between the United States and Russia, expired last December. In arguing that the Senate reject the New Start treaty, the writers do not fairly portray what the treaty would do and put politics above national security.
Like its predecessor, New Start is rooted in President Reagan's maxim ''Trust, but verify.'' The new treaty limits the United States and Russia to 1,550 deployed strategic warheads each, levels not seen since the 1950s but more than enough for today's world. 
The treaty also allows us to inspect Russia's nuclear arsenal, which we cannot do without the treaty.
For these reasons, seven former top generals of the United States strategic nuclear command join our current military leadership in supporting the treaty.
There are no constraints on our efforts to develop and deploy the most effective missile defenses or conventional strike systems possible, and the Obama administration has proposed significant investments -- unprecedented since the end of the cold war -- to modernize our nuclear weapons complex.
After holding 18 hearings and receiving answers to more than 900 questions, senators have a responsibility to consider the treaty on its merits, regardless of the political cycle.
Ellen O. Tauscher Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Washington, Nov. 11, 2010
To the Editor:
John R. Bolton and John Yoo claim that reductions in our nuclear arsenal ''weaken our national defense,'' instead proposing to continue a policy that has brought us events from the Cuban missile crisis to the Air Force's recent loss of communication with 50 nuclear missiles.
Military history has shown that weapons, even when built purely for deterrent purposes, are inevitably used to their fullest deadly extent in war. If a third world war were to break out -- and let us not forget that the Second World War was prefaced by a long, severe global economic downturn -- nuclear weapons would no doubt be used with terrifying consequences, simply because they are available.
It is time we abandoned the absolutely perverse 20th-century policy of mutually assured destruction. Brinkmanship is not a permanent or stable solution. We spent the last half-century failing to answer how we could survive a nuclear detonation; let us instead spend the next half-century eliminating the need for such an answer.
Adhitya S. Chittur Redwood City, Calif., Nov. 10, 2010
To the Editor:
It is beyond ironic that John R. Bolton and John Yoo have attacked the New Start treaty before the Senate, wrapping their argument in the mantle of the Constitution and national security and decrying the administration's ''rush'' for approval.
Let's begin with ''rush.'' A new treaty to replace Start should have been well down the road to completion and ratification when President Obama took office in 2009, since it was set to expire in December of that year.
In fact, very little had been done because the last administration, of which both Mr. Bolton and Mr. Yoo were a part, expended considerable time exploring blind alleys, including seeking an agreement with the Russians that would not need Senate ratification (how's that for honoring the Constitution?) and with few verification provisions (how's that for national security?). No treaty is perfect, but the New Start treaty before the Senate meets vital United States security requirements. Every day without a New Start treaty is a national security problem, so prompt ratification is very much in our national interest.
Kenneth C. Brill Bethesda, Md., Nov. 11, 2010
The writer is a former ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency and a former director of the National Counterproliferation Center.
To the Editor:
John R. Bolton and John Yoo assert that any Senate reservations included in the Senate's resolution approving the New Start treaty would not be legally binding because they would not be part of the treaty itself.
When the Senate approves a treaty, it can condition its consent (by reservation, understanding or whatever -- the label doesn't matter) either by requiring the president to get the other party to agree to a change in the treaty's text, or simply by including its condition in the resolution of ratification.
After the Senate acts, the president decides whether to bring the treaty into force. If he wishes to do so, he is constitutionally required to respect the Senate's conditions, regardless of which method the Senate has used. Each is equally binding in international law as well as law of the land, and each has been used on numerous occasions for over 200 years without raising any legal concern.
Michael J. Glennon Medford, Mass., Nov. 12, 2010
The writer, a professor of international law at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, was legal counsel to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee when the Senate approved the Panama Canal treaties.
To the Editor:
What makes John R. Bolton and John Yoo think that delaying the ratification of the New Start treaty is the will of the people? Is it the recent election results?
If so, that's news to me, because I didn't hear a single candidate, Republican or Democrat, talk about the New Start treaty.
Edward M. Kimball Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 10, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIE WOJNAROWSKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMS RACE (78%); POLITICS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); HISTORY (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ELLEN O TAUSCHER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



627 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Republicans Propose to Pare Back Federal Reserve's Dual Role

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Criticism of the Federal Reserve intensified on Tuesday as conservative Republican lawmakers called for limiting the central bank's mandate to keeping inflation low. They said that the Fed should stop trying to pursue the twin goals of balancing inflation and unemployment, as it has been required to do since 1977.
The Republican proposal was the latest example of the increasingly partisan antipathy toward the Fed's decision on Nov. 3 to inject $600 billion into the economy in an effort to lower long-term interest rates. 
The legislation would be anathema to most Democrats, who say they believe that low inflation and low unemployment should be given equal weight. The latest proposal appears to be gathering support among Republicans, who will control the House starting in January, but is all but certain to be blocked by Democrats if it reaches the Senate.
The Fed is rare among central banks in having a dual mandate. Under federal law, it has two equal objectives -- maintaining price stability and maximizing employment -- although those two goals have at times been difficult to reconcile.
''It is time to return the Federal Reserve to the singular mission of protecting the fundamental strength and integrity of the American dollar,'' said Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, a Republican and chief sponsor of the proposal.
In a statement, the Fed was cool to the idea of narrowing its mission.
''The Federal Reserve is not seeking a change to its statutory mandate,'' a Fed spokeswoman, Michelle A. Smith, said in a statement. ''The dual mandate is appropriate.''
But at a press conference, Mr. Pence said the Fed's latest bond-buying action, known as quantitative easing, ''will do nothing more than dilute the value of the dollar and further disrupt the global financial system.''
He suggested that the Fed was using monetary policy to usurp the proper role of fiscal policy. ''I believe that the onus for growing jobs in this country should not fall on the Fed, it should fall on policy makers in this administration and in this, and the coming, Congress,'' he said.
Mr. Pence, a favorite of the Tea Party movement, helps coordinate legislation as chairman of the House Republican Conference, but plans to step down from that role. Mr. Pence said the Fed's previous round of quantitative easing -- $1.7 trillion worth of purchases of mortgage-related securities and government debt from January 2009 to March 2010 -- failed to reduce unemployment. Most economists, however, believe that effort was successful at stimulating growth and supporting home prices.
The Fed hopes the new round of monetary easing will lower long-term interest rates, lift stock prices and speed the recovery of the labor market, but critics say that the policy will weaken the dollar and possibly lead to inflation.
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has been careful to couch the Fed's latest action in terms on both sides of the mandate, arguing in an Oct. 15 speech that inflation was ''too low'' and unemployment ''clearly too high.''
Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican who joined Mr. Pence at the press conference, refrained from attacking the Fed's latest policy decision, but said that he supported ending the dual mandate.
Mr. Corker, who sits on the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the Fed, said the two goals amounted to a ''bipolar mandate'' that caused confusion for policy makers and the public.
''I don't look at this in any way as something undermining the Fed,'' he said. ''I look at this as something that strengthens their understanding of what it is their mandate is.''
Both Mr. Pence and Mr. Corker said they wished to preserve the independence of the central bank. And Mr. Corker said he ''wouldn't be surprised if over the course of the next several weeks some of the Fed governors themselves came out and embraced this.''
Panel Backs Diamond
Peter A. Diamond, the Nobel Prize-winning economist whose nomination to the Federal Reserve Board has been held up by Republican lawmakers, won approval from the Senate Banking Committee for a second time.
The panel voted, 16-7, on Tuesday to recommend him to the full Senate. The vote overcame an objection by Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the committee's senior Republican, that Mr. Diamond's nomination violates a law saying that no two Fed governors can be from the same region. All opposition came from Republicans.
Lawmakers must now confirm Mr. Diamond during a lame-duck session or his nomination will expire, forcing the White House to consider a third try with a slimmed-down Democratic majority in the Senate.
Janet Yellen, now the Fed's vice chairman, and Sarah Bloom Raskin were confirmed by the Senate on Sept. 29 and sworn in Oct. 4. If approved, Mr. Diamond would fill the last vacancy and give the central bank a full slate of members for the first time since 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bob Corker said the Fed's dual roles caused confusion for policy makers and the public. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (63%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); BOB CORKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



628 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Obama Sails Churning Trade Sea, Where Friends Are Foes

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Conventional wisdom in Washington says that trade policy is one of the few areas where President Obama and Congressional Republicans can work together in the next two years. But making progress will require Mr. Obama to navigate opposition from within his own party, and could test how far he is willing to go in compromising and building new coalitions in the wake of the Republican victories.
In announcing last week that he could not reach an expected free-trade pact with South Korea, Mr. Obama cited a possibly skeptical Congress as a potential hurdle, saying he did not want to negotiate a pact he could not sell on Capitol Hill, where Democrats have frozen consideration of free-trade deals with South Korea, Panama and Colombia. 
But Mr. Obama also promised that in the next several weeks, his negotiators would keep trying to overcome the disputes with South Korea over autos and beef that stalled the pact last week.
If the president is successful, he may be setting himself up for a big fight with Democrats.
Even if the Koreans agree to gradually drop a ban on imports of American beef from older cattle and agree to a slower phase-out of American tariffs on imports of Korean cars while eliminating safety and environmental rules that help keep the Korean market one of the world's most closed, ''the Korea trade pact is not O.K., and it won't be a trade agreement that I'll want to vote for,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio.
He also suggested that the Colombia and Panama trade pacts would fare no better with liberals; Mr. Brown said all three agreements would cost Americans jobs.
''If they try to jam these trade agreements through,'' he said, ''it's clearly out of step with what the American public wants.''
But if Mr. Obama fails to get the South Korea trade pact, he may be setting himself up for a big fight with Republicans. The president ''has now got a Congress that is not only willing to engage on trade, but will shine a very bright spotlight on its potential,'' said Representative Kevin Brady, the Texas Republican who is likely to become chairman of the Trade Subcommittee of the Ways and Means Committee. ''It's been locked in a closet for the last four years on Capitol Hill, and we're going to pull it out.''
White House officials maintained on Tuesday that they would keep pushing to get the South Korea deal completed within six weeks. White House officials have been striking conciliatory tones with big business since the bruising election campaign during which Mr. Obama sharply criticized the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in campaign rallies after the chamber contributed some $50 million to mostly Republican candidates. Part of the reconciliation process involves pursuing the free-trade pacts businesses want.
''This will be an early test for this president with the new Congress, particularly the House leadership,'' said Myron Brilliant, senior vice president for international affairs at the chamber. ''Can we move the trade agenda forward, and can he do so in a bipartisan fashion?''
Mr. Brilliant's boss, the chamber's president, Thomas J. Donohue, traveled to South Korea last week to try to help win the free-trade deal; Mr. Donohue met for an hour with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner before the trip, as part of a continuing reconciliation effort between the White House and the chamber.
Mr. Obama has been cautious in pushing trade, reflecting Democratic Party concerns that trade liberalization has cost American jobs. But earlier this year, Mr. Obama announced that he wanted to double American exports in the next five years. While some economists speculate that the administration plans to reach that goal largely by watching the dollar decline, making American goods cheaper abroad, most trade experts say that opening markets abroad for American exports will have to be a crucial part of any strategy to increase export growth.
''The case for this is more compelling than ever before,'' said Peter L. Scher, an executive vice president at JPMorgan Chase and a former trade negotiator with the Clinton administration. ''The rest of the world is moving forward on engagement, particularly in Asia. If, in fact, the issue is jobs and unemployment, we're only going to get there through open markets.''
But many legislators, and not just on the Democratic side of the aisle, do not see the issue so simply. There have always been Republicans from textile states in the South and manufacturing states in the Midwest who have been skeptical of trade. The new Tea Party Republicans who will join the next Congress are a question mark when it comes to trade. On the campaign trail, trade was not a big issue; rather, Tea Party members talked about job losses because of big government and stimulus spending.
Republican Party leaders in the past have shown themselves well able to lasso wayward party members to keep them in line when they have needed trade votes to please a business constituency. People in Congress still talk about the night that a sobbing Representative Robin Hayes, Republican of North Carolina, was pressured by party leaders to vote for a trade pact that he had sworn to vote against because of the loss of textile jobs in his state.
But whether the leaders will be able to exert the same amount of party control over their new members is an open question. ''We have a lot of members who need education,'' said Mr. Brilliant of the Chamber of Commerce. ''They're going to come in with a mandate to shrink the government. We've got to demonstrate that standing still is not an option if we want to grow our economy and create jobs here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea failed to make a trade deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); BEEF (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); KEVIN BRADY (58%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); PANAMA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



629 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Is Set to Approve Deal on an Indian-Run Casino in the Catskills

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. David A. Paterson is poised to sign off on an Indian-owned casino development project in the Catskills, state officials said Tuesday, opening the door to the state's first full-fledged casino in close proximity to New York City.
The pending agreement is with the Stockbridge-Munsee, a Mohican tribe based in Wisconsin that traces its roots to New York and has been pursuing a casino in Sullivan County for years. 
The casino would be 90 miles northwest of the city, in Thompson, featuring table games in addition to the electronic gambling machines offered at nearby facilities.
The development comes as a major surprise late in Mr. Paterson's administration, since the recent discussion about casinos has focused on tribes based in New York, particularly the Shinnecock tribe in the Hamptons, which recently won a long battle for federal recognition.
Officials in Sullivan County hailed the news, but one major New York tribe, the Oneida, reacted with dismay. Government watchdogs raised concerns that the talks had apparently been conducted in secret.
The project would still require federal approval; state and local officials said they were confident they had already cleared most of the necessary hurdles. As part of an agreement with the state, the tribe will settle a land claim suit in Madison County in central New York, and receive an acre of land as part of the settlement, a person with knowledge of the arrangement said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the deal had not been made final.
Securing a foothold in New York is aimed at helping the tribe win federal approval to build a casino in Sullivan County, though federal regulators have long frowned upon casinos proposed outside of reservations.
The tribe has also been negotiating a compact with the state that would give $15 million a year to Sullivan County and give the state a percentage of casino revenue, a key component of winning state and federal approval. The State Legislature would also have to approve a tribal compact.
''The Paterson administration is working to reach an agreement with the Stockbridge-Munsee Community, Band of Mohican Indians; the secretary of the interior; and a number of local governments to resolve a longstanding land claim,'' Jessica Bassett, a spokeswoman for the governor, said in a statement on Tuesday. ''This agreement would clear the way to bringing much needed economic development to Sullivan County.''
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said in his own statement that the deal ''would be a huge boost for the economy that will include job growth and tourism, in a region that has been struggling for decades to get back on its feet.''
At least one state tribe, however, is not celebrating. Mark Emery, a spokesman for the Oneida Indian Nation, said, ''We, and presumably every other Indian nation, were surprised to learn that the State of New York would invite an out-of-state tribe into the state to conduct gaming, which means that all of the profits will be drained from New York.''
The Oneida run the Turning Stone casino, which is between Syracuse and Utica, and have had poor relations with the Stockbridge-Munsee. The tribes have had conflicting land claims.
''The idea that the state was settling a Stockbridge land claim is laughable,'' Mr. Emery said, ''as the claim relates to Oneida Nation homelands, and nobody honestly believes the Stockbridge ever had a legitimate claim here.''
The Stockbridge-Munsee did not return a call for comment. The office of Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo also declined to comment; Patrick E. Brown, who was a top aide to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, played a central role in arranging the deal.
While there is already a casino in Yonkers and one being developed at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, both are technically racinos -- they are attached to horse tracks and feature video lottery terminals, but not table games.
The casino envisioned for Thompson would be a full casino with table games, like poker and blackjack, a development that would quite likely draw business from casinos in Atlantic City and Connecticut, as well as Turning Stone.
Anthony P. Cellini, the supervisor of Thompson, said the deal could revitalize the Catskills. ''We were once the Northeast's tourism capital, and this could once again bring that back to this area,'' he said.
Several tribes have been trying to build casinos in the Catskills for years, and the Paterson administration has said previously that it was open to building as many as three casinos in the region to generate jobs and revenue.
But the Stockbridge-Munsee tribe has already bought land in Sullivan County for its casino and is several years along in its efforts at winning approval. A key facilitator of the deal has been Mr. Brown, a lobbyist who once negotiated with Indian tribes on behalf of former Governor Cuomo's administration. Mr. Brown represents the developer working with the Stockbridge-Munsee, Trading Cove New York, L.L.C., on the casino project. He declined to comment.
Blair Horner, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said the deal raised eyebrows, particularly coming on the heels of a scandal over bidding for the Aqueduct racino. ''The negotiations were conducted in secret,'' he said, adding, ''The administration should have bent over backwards to have made this process as open as possible.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the Paterson administration's plan to bring a casino to the Catskills referred imprecisely to the proximity of the proposed casino to New York City. It would not be the closest casino with table games to Manhattan; some casinos in Pennsylvania that recently added table games are slightly closer, though they are farther away from other parts of New York City.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: The casino would be in Thompson, about 90 miles from New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); APPROVALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



630 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler, Lapped by Its Rivals

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The Big Three is starting to look more like the Big Two, as Chrysler drifts further behind its larger hometown rivals Ford and General Motors, whose newly issued stock will be publicly traded for the first time on Thursday.
Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler's chief executive, has been preaching patience and promising a successful turnaround from the company's bankruptcy -- just over a longer timeframe than G.M.'s. 
But as investors clamor for a piece of the new G.M. and also bid up Ford's stock price, Chrysler is increasingly being cast as the odd man out in Detroit's automotive resurgence.
Chrysler's sales in the United States are less than half what they were five years ago and its product lineup is still in the early stages of an overhaul.
On Wednesday, the company showed off its new Dodge Durango sport utility vehicle at the Los Angeles auto show, as well as the tiny Fiat 500 microcar that Chrysler dealers will begin soon begin selling in the United States.
But industry analysts said that the company remained in low gear and was quite a way from its own public stock offering.
''Chrysler is nowhere near ready,'' said David Whiston, an equity analyst with the investment firm Morningstar. ''It still needs way more car model product than it has.''
Mr. Marchionne has said that Chrysler was hurt more by the severe drop in overall auto sales in 2008 and 2009 than other automakers. While G.M. and Ford took a big hit in sales, too, Ford is back to prerecession levels, and G.M. has some of the industry's fastest-growing brands.
''We got a bloody nose on the way into the recession and I'm not sure we got it all back on the way out,'' he said last week in a conference call on third-quarter earnings. ''So we need to fight harder.''
Mr. Marchionne is also the chief executive of Fiat, the Italian automaker that controls Chrysler by virtue of the 20 percent stake it received in the bailout deal negotiated last year with the United States government. With Fiat at the wheel, Chrysler is working to add new fuel-efficient cars to its lineup beginning next year. But in the interim, Chrysler's sales are stagnant and the company continues to lose money.
Chrysler cut its losses in the third quarter to $84 million, but still owes $7.4 billion to the United States and Canadian governments for loans it received. The interest payments on the loans -- $899 million so far this year -- has prevented it from posting any profits.
The United States government owns 8 percent of Chrysler, whose largest stockholder is the United Automobile Workers retiree health care trust, which owns 55 percent.
Mr. Marchionne, who previously led Fiat to a comeback, has pledged a public stock offering for Chrysler in the second half of 2011, suggesting that the G.M. stock would help set the stage.
''The success our competitor in town is achieving with its own offering is an indication of the receptiveness of the capital markets,'' he said.
But industry analysts said it was too soon to tell whether a Chrysler stock offering would generate anything close to the interest shown by investors in G.M.
Chrysler's sales in the United States have rebounded some from last year's dismal performance, when it fell below one million vehicles sold for the first time in decades. Its two biggest brands, Dodge and Jeep, have benefited from some new offerings, like the Jeep Grand Cherokee. But its Chrysler brand has plunged to 14th in sales among all the brands sold in the United States, behind traditionally smaller players like Volkswagen, Subaru and Mazda.
''They're going to have to prove themselves in the marketplace, and that's going to take a little bit of time,'' said Jeff Schuster, head of auto forecasting at J. D. Power & Associates.
This year through October, Chrysler sales have risen 16 percent, to 910,000 vehicles. As recently as 2005, Chrysler sold 2.3 million vehicles in the United States. Over all, it currently ranks fifth among carmakers in the market, behind G.M., Ford, Toyota and Honda. This year, G.M. has sold 1.8 million vehicles in the United States.
Chrysler is banking on some refreshed versions of older models, like its Sebring sedan and the Town and Country minivan, to add some luster to its namesake brand. It also should get a big lift when it rolls out a new version of its Chrysler 300 full-size passenger car.
But the company continues to struggle to get traction in the revived market for pickup trucks. Sales of the Ram pickup have increased less than 2 percent this year, while pickup sales at Ford have risen 30 percent and at G.M. by 15 percent.
In the long term, industry analysts said, Chrysler's prospects depend heavily on the new Fiat-based cars coming in the next couple of years. Fiat was able to acquire its 20 percent stake in Chrysler without expending any cash, partly because the federal government considered Fiat's expertise in high-mileage cars a big plus for Chrysler.
Fiat also has options to increase its stake to 35 percent by fulfilling conditions laid out by the Obama administration.
Fiat hopes that Americans have forgotten the embarrassing quality problems that led to its derogatory nickname -- ''Fix It Again, Tony'' -- and to its abandonment of the United States market nearly three decades ago.
Now, Fiat is returning with 130 new dealerships connected to existing Chrysler stores. Chrysler on Wednesday announced that the dealers that would get Fiat franchises.
This year, G.M. and Ford have been piling up billions of dollars in profits, with Ford on pace to set a record, while Chrysler remains the only Detroit automaker still in the red.
''It's a shame that Chrysler's sort of been in the background,'' said Rebecca Lindland, director of Automotive Research for North and South America at the forecasting firm IHS Global Insight. ''But I also think their day will come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sergio Marchionne, chief of Chrysler, called G.M.'s public stock offering a good sign. But one analyst said that Chrysler, with a limited lineup, was far from ready to go public. The Dodge Nitro sport utility vehicle is at top, the Jeep Patriot at center, and the Dodge Magnum at bottom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) (B1)
 The 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee, driven by Sergio Marchionne during a ceremony in May. ''We need to fight harder,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (68%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); FIAT SPA (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



631 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Despite Deal, Bigger Classes In City Schools

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN; Elissa Gootman, Robert Gebeloff and Mirela Iverac contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Three years after a landmark agreement to cut class sizes in New York City's public schools, classrooms are swelling across the city, a result of budget cuts and spending decisions that have reduced the teaching force.
According to the city's Department of Education, elementary schools this year had the largest increases, with average class sizes growing to 23.7 students per class from 22.9 last year. In middle schools, class sizes climbed to 27 from 26.1; high school class sizes held at about 27.
Small classes are increasingly rare. Excluding special education classes, 22.4 percent of elementary and middle school students were in classes of 20 or fewer children two years ago. Now, only 13.7 percent are. Meanwhile, the percentage packed into classrooms with 28 students or more has jumped to 31 percent from 23 percent, according to an analysis by The New York Times. 
The increases come despite a city commitment since 2007 to reduce class sizes across all grades in exchange for state money earmarked for that purpose. In January, the teachers union, along with civic organizations and local officials, filed a lawsuit to get the city to account for how the money, totaling $740 million, was being used. The city has argued that questions about the funds belong before the state commissioner of education, David M. Steiner, not in a court.
But the class size reduction plan assumed there would be much more additional money than ever materialized, which is one reason its targets have faded from reach.
According to the agreement, by 2012, the city's kindergartens, for example, were to average less than 20 students. They averaged 20.7 students per class in 2007; this year, they had 22.
Over all, aid to schools across the state has been dropping. In the past year alone, city schools have had to absorb cuts of 4 percent.
State spending reductions are one of the largest challenges awaiting Cathleen P. Black, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's choice to be the next chancellor, and given that the state faces another large deficit, it is possible that class sizes will continue to rise.
City officials said Wednesday that given the cuts, class sizes actually rose less than they could have.
In February, the city appealed to the state to excuse it from its class size reduction targets due to the economic downturn. Mr. Steiner agreed to allow the city to focus its class size reduction plans on just 75 of its 1,600 schools, chosen because they were both crowded and low performing.
Advocates fighting for smaller class sizes said Wednesday that it was disingenuous of the city to blame the economy alone for the swelling classes, because the city never mandated that principals use the extra funds to reduce class sizes. The lawsuit charges that the city has at times used the money to plug other holes in the budget.
In general, the city permits principals to use the class size reduction funds for other purposes, including to pay for specialized teachers and for team-teaching. But the city also officially ended a separate class size reduction program in the early grades, with principals receiving a memorandum in June telling them they could now spend those funds as they wished.
Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, the teachers union, said that class sizes rose even when the economy was strong. ''It's clear that their intention was never to lower class size,'' Mr. Mulgrew said. ''They don't believe in it.''
Overall student enrollment has remained relatively flat, at just over one million, but according to the union, there are 4,000 fewer teachers than there were two years ago, because many recent retirees have not been replaced.
At Public School 138 on Lafayette Avenue in the South Bronx, where class sizes now average 29 in fourth grade and 31 in third grade, Michelle Viera, a fourth-grade teacher, said that it was hard to even get the basics done. ''Sometimes there's just not enough materials,'' she said. ''We constantly have to copy things. There's also a problem with discipline.''
Mildred Rivera, 39, said that her daughter Julianne, a second grader at P.S. 138, sometimes ''doesn't get attention from the teacher because she's too busy with other kids.''
Other parents said they did not think the crowding was a problem, because their children's teachers were good.
Perhaps the most influential study on class size, conducted in Tennessee in the 1980s, pointed to the benefits of small classes, particularly for poor and minority students. That study found that in kindergarten through third grade, students in small classes outperformed those in larger classes. But in the study, small classes were defined as those with 13 to 17 children -- unthinkably small for most school districts.
Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton University professor who studies the economics of education, said he believed that there was evidence to support the benefits of small classes, even when those classes have more than 18 students. Plus, he said, class size reduction ''is one of the few education reforms that I think we know what to do about.''
''The thing that's in vogue now is to say, 'We just need better teachers,' yet no one knows how to screen to determine if someone's a better teacher. No one knows how to train people to be better teachers.''
But Dan Goldhaber, director of the Center for Education Data and Research at the University of Washington, sees it differently, as do some other experts. ''The effects of class size, if they exist, are small, and class size is really expensive,'' he said.
When California embarked on a costly class size reduction effort in the mid-90s, Mr. Goldhaber pointed out, studies showed ''marginal, if any, impact, and possibly some harm,'' as many sub-par teachers were quickly hired to fulfill the mandate, and many well-qualified teachers left poorer urban schools for new slots elsewhere.
Part of the issue in New York is transparency in how the funds for class size reduction are being used, said Geri Palast, the executive director of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, the organization that brought the lawsuit that led to the landmark agreement three years ago. While her organization has repeatedly asked the city for information about how much was spent each year on class size reduction, so far, she said, the organization has only been told what the city plans to spend at the start of each school year.
''We are concerned that there was money allocated for that purpose that was not used for that purpose,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MAYORS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (56%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); CATHLEEN BLACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



632 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosure Fix Is Seen As Distant

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Changing the face of foreclosure in America will take some time, several state attorneys general said Wednesday, cautioning that an agreement with major lenders over revamped foreclosure practices was not imminent.
''We want to move as quickly as possibly but it has to be done right,'' said Roy Cooper, the attorney general of North Carolina. ''We have plowed this ground before.''
Ever since the law enforcement officials from all 50 states signed on last month to a highly publicized investigation of big mortgage lenders, there has been a public tug of war.
The banks, who have been subjected to bad publicity, have played down the investigation and want to see it end as quickly as possible. The state attorneys general, however, say that there is an opportunity to fundamentally change the way banks deal with defaulting borrowers so that more people can stay in their homes by modifying their mortgages, and that they will take the time needed. 
''The large banks say they are doing everything they can to avoid foreclosure, but that is not the reality on the ground,'' said Patrick Madigan, an assistant attorney general in Iowa who is a lead figure in the investigation. ''The question is, Why?''
Mr. Madigan mentioned some theories, saying any or all could be true: ''Is it the fact that the current servicing system was not designed to do large numbers of loan modifications, is it being understaffed, incompetence or the servicers having the wrong financial incentives?''
The major lenders are scheduled to appear on Capitol Hill on Thursday for the second hearing this week on their foreclosure procedures. The pressure to reach a settlement with the attorneys general will likely intensify after the hearing, which will be led by Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California and outspoken critic of the mortgage lending industry.
But quick fixes are not likely, the attorneys general said. Richard Cordray, the Ohio attorney general who lost his bid for re-election this month, was hesitant to predict a significant outcome.
''Something will come of this, no question,'' Mr. Cordray said of the inquiry. ''The question is whether it will be a meaningful resolution that will make a real difference or a missed opportunity. It's not entirely clear at this point.''
Some experts were willing to go even further, saying the lenders were impervious to change. For 18 months, the Obama administration has promoted modifications that would keep families in their homes over foreclosures that would kick them out. The programs have had some success but ultimately have done little to stem the tide.
''The banks' act was to put their tail between their legs, act contrite before Congress and change nothing,'' said Adam Levitin, an associate profesor of law at Georgetown University who testified before Congress on Tuesday and will testify again on Thursday.
The banks hope to buy off the attorneys general with money, perhaps to establish a compensation fund for victims, Mr. Levitin said. That, he said, would prevent attorneys general from ''digging deeper and uncovering more rot in the mortgage system. My fear is that the banks' calculus is correct.''
There were fresh reports on Wednesday that the foreclosure situation was deteriorating. Another 35,000 households entered foreclosure in October, the data company Lender Processing Service said, despite freezes instituted by lenders as they reviewed their practices. About 4.3 million households are either in serious default or in foreclosure.
The housing market also showed fresh signs of trouble. CoreLogic, a data company, said Wednesday that home prices fell 2.8 percent in the last year. Earlier this week, another information company, DataQuick, said sales in the Southern California market had dropped 24 percent in October from last year.
''We agree with the attorneys general that a housing market recovery is vital to restoring economic growth, and the sooner we resolve the outstanding issues, the better,'' said Lawrence Di Rita, a Bank of America spokesman.
For the banks, the immediate cost of halting foreclosure is not significant. Brian Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, said it totaled $10 million to $20 million a month. Bank of America has frozen foreclosures in 27 states.
A far greater threat to the broader financial system is the possibility that investors will force financial institutions to buy back hundreds of billions of dollars in soured mortgages, according to a Congressional Research Service report prepared for Thursday's hearing and obtained by The New York Times.
Loan buybacks could shift $425 billion in losses on mortgage-backed securities from the investors that owned them to the banks that helped originate or assemble the securities, according to the report, far more than most estimates floated on Wall Street.
''Loan buybacks have the potential to cause the banking system to become undercapitalized once again or to cause individual large banks to fail,'' the report says, ''even if that outcome is unlikely.''
While bank officials agree that a settlement with the attorneys general is not in the making anytime soon, they remain eager to put the controversy behind them. Bank of America's reputation, in particular, was hammered last month as the uproar grew over claims that the industry had pursued foreclosures in cases where documents were lost, missing or barely reviewed before they were signed by bank officials, a practice known as robo-signing.
What is more, as the nation's largest mortgage servicer -- it handles roughly 14 million home loans, or one in five American mortgages -- it has more to lose as the investigation drags on. The majority of its troubled portfolio was picked up in 2008 when it bought Countrywide, whose aggressive subprime lending practices made it a symbol of industry excess.
''What makes it a little more pressing for Bank of America is their level of exposure,'' said Guy Cecala, publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance. ''Whatever the issue is, Bank of America seems to have a target on its back from people looking to be compensated for losses.''
As the beneficiary of two government bailouts, both repaid, it has been eager to maintain good relations with regulators.
Representatives from Bank of America and the other main players in the mortgage servicing industry -- Ally Financial, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Citigroup -- will testify at Thursday's hearing. A top mortgage executive at Citi plans to testify that the company identified 14,000 foreclosure cases where errors may have been made, including 4,000 where a notary may have been absent when they were signed. The bank, which until now has defended its processes, still insists that in each case the original decision to foreclose was correct and that the paperwork will be refiled.
Mr. Levitin, the Georgetown professor, will argue in Thursday's testimony that the business model at servicing giants like Bank of America and Wells Fargo ''encourages them to cut cut costs wherever possible, even if this involves cutting corners on legal requirements, and to lard on junk fees and in-sourced expenses at inflated prices.'' That results in foreclosure, rather than modification, being a better bet for servicers.
In removing such incentives, the attorneys general have the task of encouraging a new system that changes behavior. ''We are trying to create a paradigm shift in the way foreclosures are handled,'' said Mr. Madigan, the assistant Iowa attorney general.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Attorney General Tom Miller of Iowa, left, and Barbara Desoer of Bank of America Home Loans on Tuesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); TESTIMONY (69%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); MAXINE WATERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



633 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street, the Home of the Vanishing I.P.O.

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
One of the golden oldies of the stock market tables -- GM -- is back. But where did all those other stock symbols go?
For all the hoopla over General Motors, which is returning to the New York Stock Exchange in one of the largest initial public offering of all time, the nation's stock market seems to be getting smaller, not bigger.
Hundreds of stocks that once captivated investors -- Pets.com, anyone? -- vanished long ago. Scores of big-name public companies have passed into private hands. Others have been gobbled up by rivals. 
As a result the number of companies listed on the nation's major exchanges has plummeted, to 4,048 today from a peak of 7,459 in 1997.
It is a remarkable turnabout for the nation's markets and, to some, deeply unsettling. This is Wall Street, after all -- home to the largest and deepest capital markets on the planet.
An I.P.O. used to be a rite of passage for a company, a sign that it had arrived. But even before the financial collapse of 2008, some entrepreneurs and financiers worried that America's markets were somehow losing their edge. That would be bad news not only for Wall Street but ultimately the entire economy.
Entrepreneurs like Kirk H. Knight complain they've been pushed off the I.P.O. track.
His start-up, SurgOptix, makes medical devices to light up cancer cells during image-guided surgery.
But Mr. Knight says he can't find big investors willing to gamble on SurgOptix, largely because people are no longer sure they can exit investments through an I.P.O.
''I have been in Silicon Valley for 35 years, and I have never seen investors quite so afraid,'' Mr. Knight said. ''That whole pipeline to the stock market is closed down.''
For G.M., going public again is a step into a new, postbailout period. But in the world of initial public offerings, G.M. is an anomaly. Most I.P.O.'s involve young companies, not century-old giants like G.M.
Some economists warn the economy will suffer if innovative private companies cannot or will not turn to the public markets.
''We should be very concerned about this trend,'' said Andrew W. Lo, the director of the MIT Laboratory for Financial Engineering. ''Capital markets are central to business formation and economic growth, and if listings are falling, that is a sign there is not the same level of capital formation as there was in the past.''
Everyone wants to be the next Google. But the fact is, I.P.O.'s are a high-risk game: many start-ups fail. Yet small, nimble companies tend to be the ones that develop new products and create jobs. And far fewer of them are going public than before.
The annual rate of I.P.O.'s peaked in 1996, when around 756 American-based companies went public, according to Dealogic. That figure fell to a low of 36 during the financial crisis in 2008. It picked up to about 50 in 2009 and, so far this year, it is running at about 100, excluding G.M.
Several companies are set to go public Thursday, in the shadow of G.M, including Anacor Pharmaceuticals and the broker-dealer company LPL Investment Holdings.
But while I.P.O.'s have come out of their deep freeze, they are still running below the level required to hold constant the number of public companies. And that, analysts say, has unsettling implications for American job growth.
''I would worry about the number of start-ups declining as they are the engines of the future,'' said Eric Olsen, a senior partner the Boston Consulting Group in Chicago. ''Smaller companies tend to drive innovation more than big companies. I worry about the lack of new companies.''
Granted, many businesses are thriving privately, away from public exchanges. They are financed by private equity or bank lending.
Others say it makes no sense to compare today's I.P.O. market with the frothy days of the dot-com frenzy. Many of the companies that abandoned exchanges like Nasdaq once the bubble burst never made any money.
Some critics say the incredible shrinking stock market is one of the unexpected results of regulations like the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which have increased companies' legal bills.
Others say the evolution of the capital markets has favored large companies over smaller ones.
New technology like online brokerages and regulatory changes meant to increase competition in the nation's stock market pushed trading costs to a fraction of what they were. This has generated benefits for ordinary investors who can buy and trade shares cheaply and much more quickly than in the past.
But David Weild, former vice chairman of Nasdaq and capital markets adviser at Grant Thornton, said that had cut profitability for big brokerage firms that now preferred to focus on large company stocks and did not promote share offerings by smaller, less-known companies.
''The whole ecosystem to support small-cap companies has shrunk,'' Mr. Weild said. ''This infrastructure is every bit as important as bridges, roads and tunnels. Without it, you undermine growth.''
The trend is startling when compared to emerging markets like China or India where new listings are growing at a fast rate.
While these still lag behind the United States, the number of companies listed on Chinese stock exchanges has grown by about a third over the last 10 years and stood at 3,019 by the end of last year, according to the World Federation of Exchanges.
This year alone, Chinese companies introduced 391 global I.P.O.'s, worth $89.5 billion, the data firm Dealogic reported. The 99 I.P.O.'s by American companies listing in the United States were worth $15.69 billion.
''I.P.O.'s raise innovation rates,'' said David H. Hsu, associate professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, who has studied I.P.O.'s in the biotech industry. He worries that the dwindling number of I.P.O.'s could ultimately hurt the competitiveness of the nation's economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pets.com's symbol, the sock puppet. Fewer companies are raising capital though initial offerings in major U.S. exchanges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETS.COM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); CANCER (64%); MEDICAL DEVICES (64%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (60%); JOB CREATION (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



634 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: A Hedge Fund Republic?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Earlier this month, I offended a number of readers with a column suggesting that if you want to see rapacious income inequality, you no longer need to visit a banana republic. You can just look around.
My point was that the wealthiest plutocrats now actually control a greater share of the pie in the United States than in historically unstable countries like Nicaragua, Venezuela and Guyana. But readers protested that this was glib and unfair, and after reviewing the evidence I regretfully confess that they have a point.
That's right: I may have wronged the banana republics. 
You see, some Latin Americans were indignant at what they saw as an invidious and hurtful comparison. The truth is that Latin America has matured and become more equal in recent decades, even as the distribution in the United States has become steadily more unequal.
The best data series I could find is for Argentina. In the 1940s, the top 1 percent there controlled more than 20 percent of incomes. That was roughly double the share at that time in the United States.
Since then, we've reversed places. The share controlled by the top 1 percent in Argentina has fallen to a bit more than 15 percent. Meanwhile, inequality in the United States has soared to levels comparable to those in Argentina six decades ago -- with 1 percent controlling 24 percent of American income in 2007.
At a time of such stunning inequality, should Congress put priority on spending $700 billion on extending the Bush tax cuts to those with incomes above $250,000 a year? Or should it extend unemployment benefits for Americans who otherwise will lose them beginning next month?
One way to examine that decision is to put aside all ethical considerations and simply look at where tax dollars will do more to stimulate the economy. There the conclusion is clear: You get much more bang for the buck putting money in the hands of unemployed people because they will promptly spend it.
In contrast, tax cuts for the wealthy are partly saved -- that's both basic economic theory and recent history -- so they are much less effective in creating jobs. For example, Republicans would give the richest 0.1 percent of Americans an average tax cut of $370,000. Does anybody really think that those taxpayers are going to rush out and buy Porsches and yachts, start new businesses, and hire more groundskeepers and chauffeurs?
In contrast, a study commissioned by the Labor Department during the Bush administration makes clear the job-creation power of unemployment benefits because that money is immediately spent. The study suggested that the current recession would have been 18 percent worse without unemployment insurance and that this spending preserved 1.6 million jobs in each quarter.
But there is also a larger question: What kind of a country do we aspire to be? Would we really want to be the kind of plutocracy where the richest 1 percent possesses more net worth than the bottom 90 percent?
Oops! That's already us. The top 1 percent of Americans owns 34 percent of America's private net worth, according to figures compiled by the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. The bottom 90 percent owns just 29 percent.
That also means that the top 10 percent controls more than 70 percent of Americans' total net worth.
Emmanuel Saez, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley who is one of the world's leading experts on inequality, notes that for most of American history, income distribution was significantly more equal than today. And other capitalist countries do not suffer disparities as great as ours.
''There has been an increase in inequality in most industrialized countries, but not as extreme as in the U.S.,'' Professor Saez said.
One of America's greatest features has been its economic mobility, in contrast to Europe's class system. This mobility may explain why many working-class Americans oppose inheritance taxes and high marginal tax rates. But researchers find that today this rags-to-riches intergenerational mobility is no more common in America than in Europe -- and possibly less common.
I'm appalled by our growing wealth gaps because in my travels I see what happens in dysfunctional countries where the rich just don't care about those below the decks. The result is nations without a social fabric or sense of national unity. Huge concentrations of wealth corrode the soul of any nation.
And then I see members of Congress in my own country who argue that it would be financially reckless to extend unemployment benefits during a terrible recession, yet they insist on granting $370,000 tax breaks to the richest Americans. I don't know if that makes us a banana republic or a hedge fund republic, but it's not healthy in any republic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ETHICS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); EVIDENCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



635 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: China's Focus on Food Cost May Ignore Inflation Risk

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Zhang Jing contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China took steps Wednesday to control rising prices at the most basic consumer level. But Beijing faces a severe challenge in preventing higher global commodity prices from igniting broader inflation that could threaten China's streak of powerful economic growth.
With prices rising this autumn for many commodities like sugar and cotton, the country's cabinet announced on Wednesday evening that it would impose price controls on food, introduce subsidies for the needy and increase the availability of fuel supplies.
So far, the inflation in consumer goods in China has been largely confined to food and energy, and government policy makers want to keep it that way. But avoiding more general inflation could prove difficult.
And in terms of economic diplomacy, the measures announced Wednesday were almost precisely the opposite of the steps the Obama administration and many Western economists have been urging Beijing to take. 
China's broadly measured money supply has surged in the last two years, soaring 54 percent as its central bank has supported the export economy by intervening in currency markets to keep the renminbi artificially low. Considerable cash is also sloshing around the Chinese economy because of two years of extremely heavy lending by state-owned banks to finance a highly successful economic stimulus program that has returned the country to double-digit growth.
But China's leaders are now clearly worried about the inflationary side effects of those financial policies. The premier, Wen Jiabao, has toured southern China over the last week and was shown on national television late Tuesday night expressing concern about rising food prices and promising that the government would take action.
Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the central bank, had said earlier on Tuesday that the amount of money racing through the global economy was putting pressure on emerging economies that want to control inflation. And Yao Jian, a commerce ministry spokesman, said at a press conference on Tuesday that the government would tighten scrutiny of foreign investment so as to prevent too much money from pouring into China as foreign investors seek higher returns than are currently available in the West.
Imposing price controls and other administrative controls on the Chinese economy runs counter to the steps recommended by many Western experts. They have suggested that China should further deregulate its economy, let the renminbi appreciate and otherwise rely on market forces to tame inflation.
The standard policy prescription from Washington has been that China should raise interest rates, as a way to slow investment and prevent the economy from overheating. And American policy makers from President Obama down have argued that if China would let the renminbi rise against the dollar, oil and other commodities would be less expensive in China, helping to tame inflation. But Beijing has resisted, in large part because Washington's prescribed medicine would reduce the price competitiveness of Chinese exports to the United States and elsewhere.
Still, even as China is zigging when Washington would rather it zag, some corporate economists are cautiously optimistic that China may be able to tame inflation with its approach -- for now, at least.
''Given that food prices are spearheading immediate inflationary pressures, supply-side measures should be more effective than rate hikes,'' Qu Hongbin, the co-head of Asian economics research at the international bank HSBC, wrote in a research note on Wednesday night. ''There's no need to panic, as Beijing has more than enough effective policy options to combat inflation.''
And yet, while there may be limits to China's ability to keep a lid on inflation, it is better prepared than many countries to cope with rising world commodity prices. That is because China is self-sufficient in most foods, has an enormous trade surplus and has accumulated copious foreign reserves that reached $2.65 trillion at the end of September.
In contrast, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization warned on Wednesday that food import bills were up 10 percent this year for the world's poorest countries.
But many economists were surprised by the accelerated inflation in China that the National Bureau of Statistics disclosed in Beijing last week. Overall consumer prices were 4.4 percent higher last month than a year earlier.
Chinese leaders have repeatedly made clear over the years that fighting inflation is a top priority, because it could fuel social unrest. And they have publicly set a target of not allowing the annual increase in consumer prices to reach 5 percent again. It peaked at 8.5 percent in the spring of 2008.
If food and energy prices are removed from the consumer price index, the prices for everything else are up only 1.3 percent from a year earlier, according to the government. But that is not necessarily a reassuring measure, some economists suggest.
Chinese and Western economists worry that the Chinese price index may underestimate inflation separate from food and energy. The Chinese index has longstanding methodological problems -- like measuring apartment rents but not the cost of buying and living in an apartment, which has soared in recent years.
While climbing food and energy prices are a global problem, they particularly affect lower-income countries like China, where such necessities claim a far larger share of household incomes than in more affluent nations. China's consumer price index, which is based mainly on urban spending patterns, assumes that groceries represent a third of a family's spending.
That is extremely high by Western standards. And it shows how far China must still go to create the kind of broad-based consumer society that American officials recommend and that Chinese leaders say they want to adopt in the long term in place of their current export-led model. In the United States, groceries represent only 8 percent of the Consumer Price Index.
The State Council, China's cabinet of ministers, decided on Wednesday that it would stabilize prices for grain, oil, sugar and cotton in particular, according to a statement on a government Web site. The State Council also said that the government would make sure that more diesel reached filling stations, to fuel trucks, and that utility power stations had ample supplies of coal.
The high prices and relative scarcity of diesel fuel have resulted in part from its use by factories, which have been burning it in backyard generators as power companies have cut back electricity generation to meet national targets for limiting energy consumption.
Meanwhile, utilities have struggled to buy enough coal because the government requires coal mines to sell it to power companies at low, regulated prices. The mines, of course, prefer to sell their coal at higher prices on the open market.
Last week, in another move against inflation, Beijing ordered commercial banks to put more of their assets in low-yield accounts at the central bank. The measure, an increase in the so-called reserve requirement, was meant to cool a frenzy of lending over the last two years that has priced urban real estate beyond the reach of most working-class families.
Liang Huoqiao, a 22-year-old plastics worker, said in an interview earlier this year in Guangzhou in southern China that his pay was rising 10 percent a year, to around $300 a month. But his entire annual pay would be enough to buy only about two square meters of an apartment, or 21.5 square feet.
So he planned to buy a car as soon as possible, and worry about a home later.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The rising costs for food and energy distort China's consumer price index, whose methodology has long been criticized. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B5) CHART: Price Pressure: Consumer prices are rising in China mainly because of higher food and energy prices. (Source: China's National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); FOOD PRICES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



636 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Bailing Out New Jersey

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey is the darling of the Republican right for bleeding his state budget and rebuffing billions of dollars in federal funds. Back home, however, the picture is very different. 
After Mr. Christie killed a much-needed mass transit tunnel under the Hudson River as too costly (thereby losing $3 billion from the federal government and untold future benefits), Mayor Michael Bloomberg's transportation wizards are offering to come to the rescue. They are proposing an alternative tunnel at a much lower price as an extension of New York City's subway system into New Jersey.
It's nice to know somebody is thinking big about the region's economic future.
The Bloomberg plan is sketchy, and it is not clear where the money would come from. But the essential idea is to extend the city's No. 7 subway line across Midtown Manhattan, under the river and into New Jersey. The subway could then connect with New Jersey Transit, rerouting thousands of commuters a day and relieving traffic through the 100-year-old tunnel that now serves Amtrak and New Jersey Transit.
What makes the Bloomberg concept intriguing is that much of the drilling for this subway tunnel is already being done in Manhattan. For the other tunnel that was scrapped by Governor Christie, known as ARC, the biggest cost would have been for a new corridor deep under Manhattan's Far West Side. ARC's total cost was edging up to $11 billion before it was canceled. ''ARC-lite,'' as some city officials are calling the Bloomberg tunnel, has an estimated cost of about $5.3 billion.
Mr. Bloomberg's proposal, if it works, won't repair all the damage Mr. Christie has done. New Jersey has to pay back the Federal Transit Administration at least $271 million already spent on the big tunnel.
While Mr. Christie was busy hacking away at public education in his state so he could preserve lower tax rates for multimillionaires, his administration also bungled its application for education money through the Race to the Top program and lost $400 million. He also lost federal matching funds for family planning by vetoing the state's share.
Perhaps some sage from one of the big universities -- Princeton or Rutgers? -- could help the state spend almost $60 million from the federal government to weatherize New Jersey homes. After all, Mr. Christie is busy making news and charming the right by downsizing his state, so it falls on others to think about the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); VETO (79%); MATCHING GIFTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CITIES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FAMILY PLANNING (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



637 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Microcredit Is Imperiled In India By Defaults

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN and VIKAS BAJAJ; Lydia Polgreen reported from Madoor, and Vikas Bajaj from Mumbai, India. Hari Kumar contributed reporting from Madoor.

 BODY:
MADOOR, India -- India's rapidly growing private microcredit industry faces imminent collapse as almost all borrowers in one of India's largest states have stopped repaying their loans, egged on by politicians who accuse the industry of earning outsize profits on the backs of the poor.
The crisis has been building for weeks, but has now reached a critical stage. Indian banks, which put up about 80 percent of the money that the companies lent to poor consumers, are increasingly worried that after surviving the global financial crisis mostly unscathed, they could now face serious losses. Indian banks have about $4 billion tied up in the industry, banking officials say.
''We are extremely worried about our exposure to the microfinance sector,'' said Sunand K. Mitra, a senior executive at Axis Bank, speaking Tuesday on a panel at the India Economic Summit. 
The region's crisis is likely to reverberate around the globe. Initially the work of nonprofit groups, the tiny loans to the poor known as microcredit once seemed a promising path out of poverty for millions. In recent years, foundations, venture capitalists and the World Bank have used India as a petri dish for similar for-profit ''social enterprises'' that seek to make money while filling a social need. Like-minded industries have sprung up in Africa, Latin America and other parts of Asia.
But microfinance in pursuit of profits has led some microcredit companies around the world to extend loans to poor villagers at exorbitant interest rates and without enough regard for their ability to repay. Some companies have more than doubled their revenues annually.
Now some Indian officials fear that microfinance could become India's version of the United States' subprime mortgage debacle, in which the seemingly noble idea of extending home ownership to low-income households threatened to collapse the global banking system because of a reckless, grow-at-any-cost strategy.
Responding to public anger over abuses in the microcredit industry -- and growing reports of suicides among people unable to pay mounting debts -- legislators in the state of Andhra Pradesh last month passed a stringent new law restricting how the companies can lend and collect money.
Even as the new legislation was being passed, local leaders urged people to renege on their loans, and repayments on nearly $2 billion in loans in the state have virtually ceased. Lenders say that less than 10 percent of borrowers have made payments in the past couple of weeks.
If the trend continues, the industry faces collapse in a state where more than a third of its borrowers live. Lenders are also having trouble making new loans in other states, because banks have slowed lending to them as fears about defaults have grown.
Government officials in the state say they had little choice but to act, and point to women like Durgamma Dappu, a widowed laborer from this impoverished village who took a loan from a private microfinance company because she wanted to build a house.
She had never had a bank account or earned a regular salary but was given a $200 loan anyway, which she struggled to repay. So she took another from a different company, then another, until she was nearly $2,000 in debt. In September she fled her village, leaving her family little choice but to forfeit her tiny plot of land, and her dreams.
''These institutions are using quite coercive methods to collect,'' said V. Vasant Kumar, the state's minister for rural development. ''They aren't looking at sustainability or ensuring the money is going to income-generating activities. They are just making money.''
Reddy Subrahmanyam, a senior official who helped write the Andhra Pradesh legislation, accuses microfinance companies of making ''hyperprofits off the poor,'' and said the industry had become no better than the widely despised village loan sharks it was intended to replace.
''The money lender lives in the community,'' he said. ''At least you can burn down his house. With these companies, it is loot and scoot.''
Indeed, some of the anger appears to have been fueled by the recent initial public offering of shares by SKS Microfinance, India's largest for-profit microlender, backed by famous investors like George Soros and Vinod Khosla, a co-founder of Sun Microsystems.
SKS and its shareholders raised more than $350 million on the stock market in August. Its revenue and profits have grown around 100 percent annually in recent years. This year, Vikram Akula, chairman of SKS Microfinance, privately sold shares worth about $13 million.
He defended the industry's record before the India Economic Summit meeting, saying that a few rogue operators may have given improper loans, but that the industry was too important to fail. ''Microfinance has made a tremendous contribution to inclusive growth,'' he said. Destroying microfinance, he said, would result in ''nothing less than financial apartheid.''
Indian microfinance companies have some of the world's lowest interest rates for small loans. Mr. Akula said that his company had reduced its interest rate by six percentage points, to 24 percent, in the past several years as volume had brought down expenses.
Unlike other officials in his industry, Vijay Mahajan, the chairman of Basix, an organization that provides loans and other services to the poor, acknowledged that many lenders grew too fast and lent too aggressively. Investments by private equity firms and the prospect of a stock market listing drove firms to increase lending as fast as they could, he said.
''In their quest to grow,'' he said, ''they kept piling on more loans in the same geographies.'' He added, ''That led to more indebtedness, and in some cases it led to suicides.''
Still, he said, the number of borrowers who are struggling to pay off their debts is much smaller than officials have asserted. He estimates that 20 percent have borrowed more than they can afford and that just 1 percent are in serious trouble.
One of India's leading social workers, Ela Bhatt, who heads the Self-Employed Women's Association, or SEWA, said microfinance firms had lost sight of the fact that the poor needed more than loans to be successful entrepreneurs. They need business and financial advice as well, she said.
''They were more concerned about growth -- not growth of the livelihoods and economic status of the clients, but only the institutions' growth,'' she said.
Mr. Mahajan, who is also the chairman of the Microfinance Institutions Network, said that the industry was now planning to create a fund to help restructure the loans of the 20 percent of borrowers in Andhra Pradesh who were struggling.
He also said the industry, which has been reluctant to accept outside help, would share its client databases with the government and was negotiating restrictions on retail lending that did not go through the nonprofit self-help lending groups.
The collapse of the industry could have severe consequences for borrowers, who may be forced to resort to money lenders once again. It is tough to find a household in this village in an impoverished district of Andhra Pradesh that is not deeply in debt to a for-profit microfinance company.
K. Shivamma, a 38-year-old farmer, said she took her first loan hoping to reverse several years of crop failure brought on by drought.
''When you take the loan they say, 'Don't worry, it is easy to pay back,' '' Ms. Shivamma said.
The man from Share, the company that made her first loan, did not ask about her income, Ms. Shivamma said. She soon ran into trouble paying back the $400 loan, and took out another loan, and then another.
Now she owes nearly $2,000 and has no idea how she will repay it. The television, the mobile phone and the two buffaloes she bought with one loan were sold long ago. ''I know it is a vicious circle,'' she said. ''But there is no choice but to go on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: K. Shivamma, a 38-year-old farmer in the Indian village of Madoor, is struggling to pay back a debt of almost $2,000 incurred through microloans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); TRENDS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH INDIA (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



638 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Where Hepburn Might Shop

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
CHRISTINA FRENCH HOUGHTON'S great-great-great-grandfather was the legendary actress Katharine Houghton Hepburn's uncle.
This may be a genealogical distinction largely lost on Ms. Houghton's contemporaries in the East Village, where she lives. But she has a neighbor two blocks away to whom Hepburn's famous penchant for crisp tailoring is particularly meaningful: Louisa Guy Roeder, Ms. Houghton's partner in Guy French, a fashion company they started last February.
They were inspired to go into business together after having trouble finding affordable jackets to take them from a day's work into evening. Ms. Houghton, 26, used to be an account executive at the arts consulting firm Resnicow Schroeder Associates; Ms. Roeder, 27, worked at Sotheby's. 
''Armani is even expensive at Loehmann's,'' said Ms. Houghton, whose mother, Stephanie French, chief executive of Robert Wilson's Byrd Hoffman Watermill Foundation, has a closet full of Armani jackets. If shopping for the perfect jeans is traumatic, Ms. Houghton and Ms. Roeder decided, locating jackets that say it all, at a decent price, was impossible. They wanted to wear ones that would be ''timeless,'' said Ms. Roeder, balanced on a stool at the garment district factory that produces their pieces, and ''classic,'' said Ms. Houghton, nearby. But the jackets also have to be playfully of this century.
Guy French (their middle names combined) focuses exclusively on jackets: loose and swingy, tailored and cropped, sleeves with bespoke buttonholes, shawl collars, untraditional fabric alignments. Each is named for a friend, and has a back story. The collaborators met at their mutual friend Isabel Cowles's wedding, so there's an Isabel (a tuxedo jacket), and one named for Ms. Cowles's mother, the actress Christine Baranski. Prices range from $295 to $525.
By June, when Guy French shipped its first orders, Ms. Roeder and Ms. Houghton, who pooled their savings to start the company, had quit their jobs (though Ms. Houghton supplements her income as a hostess several nights a week at the Boqueria restaurant downtown). Their first collection, sold on a per-order basis at trunk shows and online, grossed $100,000. It is now sold at Thistle & Clover, a boutique in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. But their administrative office is a Kinko's in the garment district, and they hold Monday morning design-and-production meetings at Momofuku Milk Bar.
''We started the business just as the economy was sinking,'' Ms. Houghton said. She was wearing the black-and-white-tweed Margaret bomber over a black Versace dress she bought at a vintage store. ''Lots of our friends were getting laid off -- Louisa survived three rounds at Sotheby's. But we were both feeling frustrated creatively. We went ahead.''
They've met exotic creatures. ''Garmentos,'' Ms. Houghton said. ''I grew up in New York, and didn't really realize there's this whole industry here. Now there are so many familiar faces.''
They have acquired a taste for the Chinese pop music that plays all day at the factory, and the unbroken sound of sewing machines -- ''even when it's like a chain saw,'' said Ms. Roeder, clad in a pale Sydney jacket over a black silk blouse that, she said, was one of Ms. Houghton's ''leftovers.'' Raised in London's Chelsea and on the Upper East Side, respectively, she and Ms. Houghton took sewing and pattern-making classes together to prepare for their new gig.
There's a machine for buttonholes, they marveled, and one for applying labels. Theirs say ''Made in New York.'' ''It's important for us, as a small company, to be here,'' Ms. Houghton said. ''We model ourselves on people like Nanette Lepore, who has been a champion for the garment district and its history. We've been approached by factories in China, but then we couldn't sit down the way we did with the foreman at the sewing machine here the other day and change the shoulders on our spring line.''
The lining fabric for the spring collection, light-blue seedpods against a cream silk background, is supposed to evoke an English country garden. They see this as a perfect fit for the First Gardener. ''Michelle Obama has been so great for young designers,'' Ms. Houghton said hopefully. ''Look at Jason Wu. He and I were in the same semester-abroad program in France together.''
Ms. Roeder went to the University of Pennsylvania, where she was impressed by the chic of the undergraduates. ''I was envisioning sweat pants,'' she said. ''Instead it was like a runway.'' But watching friends from Wharton struggle with outfits for post-graduation job interviews, ''I could see what was needed,'' she said.
Not just jackets, apparently: Guy French's fall 2011 collection -- inspired, its designers say, by Rene Russo in ''The Thomas Crown Affair'' -- includes several dresses, skirts and tank tops.
They're also getting queries about men's wear. ''The whole blazer thing is so important to men,'' Ms. Houghton said. ''We joke that we'd call it French Guy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THEY DO TAILORING: Christina French Houghton, left, and Louisa Guy Roeder of Guy French. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); AUCTIONS (88%); ART DEALERS (88%); LAYOFFS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); FABRICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RETAILERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



639 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aid to Pakistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof, in ''A Girl, a School and Hope'' (column, Nov. 11), enumerates the current challenges faced by the government and people of Pakistan. He also rightly sees grounds for optimism in the emergence of activist citizens and nongovernmental organizations focused on strengthening Pakistani education. But I disagree with his implication that the United States has failed to contribute to bettering education opportunities in Pakistan. 
Since 2002, the United States has provided nearly $640 million to improve education in Pakistan, benefiting more than 900,000 students. Our efforts have trained more than 12,000 teachers and administrators and bought more than 100,000 textbooks. Over the next two years, the United States will work with the government of Pakistan to renovate more than 2,000 schools and build 150 new ones.
In addition, our Access English micro scholarships program provides English-language instruction -- and a chance for a better future -- to more than 5,000 economically disadvantaged Pakistani students every year. In higher education, we are investing some $20 million a year in Fulbright scholarships to bring Pakistani students to colleges and universities in the United States. Our Access and Fulbright programs in Pakistan are the largest in the world.
The Kerry-Lugar legislation, which authorizes $7.5 billion in assistance over the next five years, represents our unmistakable commitment to engagement and partnership with the Pakistani people. We are hard at work every day providing just the kind of hope and opportunity that, as Mr. Kristof so cogently argues, is the best antidote to the hateful and violent ideology of Osama bin Laden and his ilk.
Cameron Munter Ambassador to Pakistan Islamabad, Pakistan, Nov. 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



640 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Barely Budges Amid Concerns for Europe

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks were little changed on Wednesday as concerns about debt problems in Europe persisted, and new reports showed inflation remaining low and the housing sector in the United States remaining weak.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index posted a small gain after four days of declines.
Stocks traded lower this week as finance ministers from the 16 countries that use the euro met in Brussels to discuss aid for Ireland. Investors have worried that Ireland's debt problems could spread to other countries that use the euro, primarily to Portugal and to Spain. 
But on Wednesday, the British government signaled that it could offer Ireland direct financial aid. Officials from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are due in Ireland on Thursday to discuss its financial problems.
''I think it is a pretty significant issue from a standpoint of potential contagion from the sovereign or banking issues,'' said Keith B. Hembre, the chief economist and chief investment strategist at First American Funds. ''It has served within the markets as a proxy for risk appetite,'' he said.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which briefly fell below 11,000 on Tuesday for the first time since mid-October, lost 15.62 points, or 0.14 percent, to close at 11,007.88.
The S.& P. rose 0.25 points, or 0.02 percent, to 1,178.59 while the Nasdaq composite index was up 6.17 points, or 0.25 percent, at 2,476.01.
The market wavered, then rose slightly in afternoon trading after the United States government released reports on inflation and the housing sector. The Labor Department reported that the Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in October, compared with 0.1 percent in September. The core inflation rate -- the measure of consumer prices excluding food and energy prices -- was flat, or marginally lower, while the annual rate of core prices was up 0.6 percent, the smallest increase since the government started keeping the records in 1957.
A Commerce Department report showed that housing starts fell in October to the lowest level in more than a year.
David Kelly, the chief market strategist for J. P. Morgan Funds, also referring to a new report on Wednesday on a decline in mortgage applications, said the recent economic indicators justified declines in the equity market.
''Longer-term, however, we continue to expect a gradual recovery in the U.S. economy and a gradual pullback from quantitative easing, leading to higher stock prices and interest rates,'' Mr. Kelly said, referring, in part, to the Federal Reserve's program to buy government debt and increase the amount of cash in the economy.
''The economic numbers this week are a little on the disappointing side,'' Mr. Kelly added. ''The fears of deflation can't quite be put to bed. It is reasonable to be a little glum that we are not seeing any acceleration in the economy.''
But Mr. Kelly said he believed that the markets had generally overreacted to the debt problems in Europe, partly because Ireland is determined to reduce its budget.
The dollar was slightly lower, and the euro was up slightly, at $1.3523.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32, to 97 26/32, and the yield rose to 2.88 percent, from 2.84 percent late on Tuesday.
Retail shares led the broader market. Target rose nearly 4 percent, or $2.08, to $55.62 after reporting a 23 percent increase in third-quarter profit and an upbeat outlook for same-store sales in the fourth quarter.
After the housing report, shares of home builders fell. D. R. Horton fell 34 cents, or 3.09 percent, to $10.68. PulteGroup declined more than 2 percent, or 15 cents, to $6.74.
The financial sector declined, pulled down by Citigroup, which closed down 3 cents, to $4.19, and Bank of America shares, which fell 32 cents, to $11.62.
Human Genome Sciences, one of the most actively traded shares on the Nasdaq, fell more than 5 percent, or $1.37, to $24.51. The company's lupus drug, Benlysta, moved a step closer to the market on Tuesday by winning an endorsement from a committee that advises the Food and Drug Administration.
But analysts from Citi said the process had raised criticism about the drug's benefits, and the analysts were concerned about long-term sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The government reported that housing starts fell in October to the lowest level in more than a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INFLATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); HOUSING STARTS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



641 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Beauty House Calls In the Wee Hours

BYLINE: By KAYLEEN SCHAEFER

 BODY:
NEWSPAPER deliverers show up on your doorstep at dawn. At that hour, the woman you pay to spray you with a fake tan usually would not. But recently Tamar Vezirian of Gotham Glow arrived at a client's apartment in Murray Hill in Manhattan to bronze her before a vacation. ''She had to leave at 6 a.m. to go to J.F.K.,'' Ms. Vezirian said. ''So I tanned her, and then her car service picked her up and took her away.''
In most major cities, if you want pad Thai or a sweater dry-cleaned when most people are sleeping, there's someone who will take care of it (for a price). These days, the same is true of beauty treatments. 
''I started noticing that no one was open late,'' said Ms. Vezirian, who charges $100 and up for a house call, depending on what time it is and how far she has to travel. ''So I decided to be flexible and tan at all hours of the day and night. Anytime anyone wanted a tan, I was available.'' She has begun carrying her equipment -- a pop-up tent that looks like a large flat circle and a 40-pound suitcase --on most outings, even to dinner with her boyfriend. ''It's like my right arm,'' she said.
It was about three years ago that some hair and nail salons started offering services (and often glasses of wine) until midnight or so, as a way to increase business in the wake of the financial crisis. A few establishments, like Hair Party 24 in Gramercy Park, have made a selling point of always being open.
But the self-beautifying options of the wee hours have expanded well beyond trims and manicures. Depending on where you live, you can now get a facial at midnight, Botox shots long after most dermatologists' offices have closed or eyelash extensions at 7 a.m. Some women, it seems, would rather lose sleep than look anything less than their idea of perfect.
In a troubled economy, when jobs are at risk, getting professionally groomed in the early morning or late at night might seem more politic than taking a long lunch for, say, laser resurfacing.
''Patients used to be able to get out of work when they wanted to,'' said Dr. Neil Sadick, a dermatologist in private practice on the Upper East Side who recently decided to stay available to patients, half of whom visit for cosmetic reasons, until 8 most nights of the week and all day on Saturday. ''It seemed more lax. But things have changed. We noticed that patients were asking for evening appointments and appointments before work, so it was a matter of aligning our hours with what patients were asking for.''
Dr. Sadick values his private time, of course. But ''the competition in New York is very intense,'' he said. ''There are a lot of great doctors. It's a way to set yourself apart.''
Courtney Akai, who owns an eyelash salon on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, is another member of the indefatigable new beauty brigade. ''I'm almost embarrassed to say I work 6 to 7 days a week, 12 hours a day,'' she said. ''It's ridiculous, because I do eyelash extensions. But in this kind of industry, you can't be 9-to-5. You have to accommodate the client and work around their schedule or you will lose them.''
Polly Blitzer, founder of beautyblitz.com, a cosmetics and style Web site, is one such client. She regularly gets spray tans in her living room at 11:30 p.m., or blowouts at 6 a.m. at the Rita Hazan salon on Fifth Avenue. She's also had makeup artists over to her apartment, near Union Square, many an evening. ''Well open a bottle of wine and they'll do my makeup,'' said Ms. Blitzer, who regularly persuades the Dashing Diva nail salon on her block to stay open past it regular closing time.
''I'll be stuck late at work and realize I need a manicure,'' she said. ''So I'll call and ask: 'Will you please stay open late? I'll pay double.' For me it's worth it. I make my deadline or finalize a contract, and still get my nails done.''
The sense of pampering and special treatment created by service at odd hours can be as important to clients as the end result. Lisa Belsky, a consultant on the Upper West Side, has Joanna Czech, an aesthetician at Paul Labrecque, over to her apartment once a week, after her children have gone to sleep, for a facial, nail service or eyebrow grooming. ''I juggle a lot each day,'' she said. ''Kids. Job. And one very tall additional male child, my husband. Making time for myself is difficult but critical to my mental state, and that time rarely coincides with Paul Labrecque's hours.''
Twenty-four-hour beauty isn't available only in the city that never sleeps (and has untamed eyebrows). Dr. Charles Boyd, a plastic surgeon in Birmingham, Mich., is available to patients whenever they need him, but charges double for house calls or appointments at odd times. ''It's similar to why people pay for the Four Seasons instead of the Four Points Sheraton,'' Dr. Boyd said. ''It's that extra touch you get.''
But that extra touch is more common in New York City, as Ms. Blitzer can vouch. When she was in Cincinnati recently, she tried to find someone to come to her hotel and give her a manicure and a blowout.
''I called a salon and asked if I could pay extra,'' she said. ''I was met with giggles. Needless to say, I did my own hair that day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A TAN AT HOME: Tamar Vezirian, above, walked to a 10 p.m. appointment to spray a tan for Jill, a regular, in her living room, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A LONG WEEK: Courtney Akai glued lash extensions on Angela Stulley in extended hours. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERMATOLOGY (88%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (77%); MEDICAL LASERS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (66%); NAIL SALONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



642 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Newly Released

BYLINE: By SUSANNAH MEADOWS

 BODY:
Some women love czars, while some find true love with a gay best friend. Others are drawn to those who behead kings, while the next gal will flee from a good thing. Some aren't even women yet, just teenagers, taken in by creepy men. The stories in this month's crop of new books belong to the women and the girls -- and the men in their lives.
THE WOLVES OF ANDOVER By Kathleen Kent 300 pages. Little, Brown & Company. $24.99. 
The year is 1673, the place is Billerica, Mass. Martha is a servant, forlorn and hostile (you might be too if you were 19 and on the verge of being written off as a spinster). Thomas is the man who meets her gaze and holds it until it's no longer polite. She watches him skin a wolf. He makes her a broom. By the time she learns about the brutal past that's made him the target of the king of England's henchmen, it's too late. She already loves him. And the real wolves are closing in. According to the book jacket Ms. Kent is a descendant of the actual couple who inspired her novel.
THE TRUE MEMOIRS OF LITTLE K By Adrienne Sharp 378 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
The narrator of this historical novel is Mathilde Kschessinska, who was, she says, the greatest Russian ballerina on the imperial stages during the jewel-encrusted prerevolutionary era in St. Petersburg. Now exiled in Paris and alone, Mathilde looks back on her life, telling the story to herself as much as to us. It begins when she is 17. The czar spots her onstage and plays matchmaker for his son, arranging for him to sit next to the charismatic dancer later that day. For the fawnlike future emperor she will be good practice until he can find a proper wife. For her he is a glittery prize to be won as much as to be loved. Recalling her choices, Mathilde insists that the young ruler truly loved his Little K, and that giving up the chance at a family was worthwhile. Yet cracks emerge in her facade: ''I was, always,'' she says, ''the shoe under the bed.''
RESCUE By Anita Shreve 288 pages. Little, Brown & Company. $26.99.
Peter Webster is a rookie E.M.T. when he gets the call: An old Cadillac has just kissed a tree and rolled. Soon he's cutting the driver's pants off as he pulls her from the wreck -- and noticing her bikini underwear. But truly saving Sheila Arsenault will turn out to be trickier. By the time she drinks and crashes her car again, the two are married, and their baby is in the back seat. Twice lucky, Sheila is sent packing, but she doesn't disappear. The daughter that Webster raises on his own inherits her mother's beauty, and maybe her troubles too. After 15 years and a four-hour car ride, he rings Sheila's doorbell, hoping she will be able to help.
VOICE OF AMERICA By E. C. Osondu 215 pages. Harper. $19.99.
His characters may dream about America, but E. C. Osondu's bracing portrayal of life in Africa is the heart of this debut story collection. Mr. Osondu, who was born in Nigeria, writes about a woman whose way out of a refugee camp is to move in with a man who molests her daughters. In another story a father takes his sons to the beach to watch the execution of a gang of thieves, years before one of the boys will find the same fate. Orphans in a refugee camp call one another by the slogans on their donated T-shirts (Paris wears ''See Paris and Die'') and wonder who will adopt them from the country across the ocean. But some of the lucky characters in the book end up wondering: ''How could we have known'' that ''the land of big dreams is also the land of huge nightmares?''
SUNSET PARK By Paul Auster 309 pages. Henry Holt & Company. $25.
Miles Heller works for a Florida company that cleans out houses after families have been evicted. Twenty-eight and lost, he notices a girl in the park smiling at him from above her halter top. That girl, Pilar Sanchez, is 17, and her parents died in a car crash two years earlier. Soon she leaves home for Heller's small apartment in a poor neighborhood, where he loves her while helping with SAT prep and college applications. The dismal economy has sent many of the characters in Mr. Auster's novel reeling, alienating them from their families. The book chronicles their wanderings, yet ultimately -- as if out of sympathy -- Mr. Auster brings them together in a home of sorts, an abandoned house in Brooklyn, the author's own stomping ground.
MARY ANN IN AUTUMN By Armistead Maupin 287 pages. Harper. $25.99.
After a quick long-distance conversation with her husband over Skype, Mary Ann Singleton says good night to him and -- moments later -- goodbye to her marriage. When he forgets to turn off his Webcam, she sees a woman slither into bed with him. One cancer diagnosis later, Mary Ann flees her Connecticut life for the home of her dear old friend Michael and his young husband, Ben. To be a ''we'' again with Michael is the comfort she needs: ''She had almost forgotten the sweet solace of the first-person plural,'' Mr. Maupin writes in this latest edition of his ''Tales of the City'' series. Living in San Francisco again, if only temporarily, Mary Ann slips right back into the warm, bantering world of the author's earlier books. All his kale-eating, sustainable-gardening, Snuggie-joke-making characters are familiar, even if this is your first go-around with them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); BRITISH MONARCHS (73%); BALLET (69%); DANCE (69%); HISTORY (67%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (72%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (57%)

TITLE: Wolves of Andover, The (Book); True Memoirs of Little K, The (Book); Rescue (Book); Voice of America (Book); Sunset Park (Book); Mary Ann in Autumn (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



643 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Study Rebuts Perceptions on Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
The growing immigrant population on Long Island has made a disproportionately large contribution to the region's economy, with immigrants employed across the spectrum of occupations and more than half of the immigrant labor force holding white-collar jobs, according to a study released on Wednesday.
But contrary to a widespread perception on Long Island, the study said, the expansion of the immigrant work force -- both legal and illegal -- has crowded out few American-born workers. 
''The analysis finds very little basis for the frequently voiced concern that immigrants may be displacing U.S.-born workers, the report, which was based on census data and conducted by the Fiscal Policy Institute, an independent research organization in New York, said. ''As immigrants have come to play an increasingly important role in the Long Island economy,'' the study said, ''they have for the most part been readily absorbed into the labor market.''
The growth in Long Island's immigrant population has prompted a commensurate rise in ethnic and class tensions, particularly in Suffolk County, where anti-immigrant sentiment has occasionally led to violence, including the 2008 killing of Marcelo Lucero, an Ecuadorean immigrant.
The authors of the report warned that the persistence of an anti-immigrant climate could stifle the area's economy.
''In a volatile political context, Long Island business, political and nonprofit leaders should be clearly aware of the overall positive role immigration has played in the local economy,'' said the study, which analyzed data in peak years of the business cycle: 1990, 2000 and 2007.
But the researchers also said that the benefits of Long Island's robust economy had not been shared equally. While unemployment levels decreased or at least remained largely the same for most sectors of the population from 1990 to 2007, the report said, one group of American-born residents -- black men with no more than a high school education -- suffered an increase in joblessness, to 7.8 percent from 6.2 percent, with a spike of 8.2 percent in 2000.
The report said factors other than immigration, like the loss of manufacturing jobs in the region and the high rate of incarceration among black men, may have affected black unemployment. Still, the authors said, the worsening employment situation for lesser-educated black men at a time of rising immigration ''is reason for concern and attention.''
By comparison, unemployment rates among American-born women were either stable or fell between the peaks of 1990 and 2007, with significant drops among Hispanic and black women, the study said. For the broad population of American-born men, unemployment rates generally stayed the same.
A spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, an advocacy group in Washington that calls for reducing levels of immigration, said he was troubled by the report.
''It acknowledges job loss and wage suppression of African-Americans -- they're not a throwaway,'' said the spokesman, Bob Dane. ''Immigration policy needs to maintain an equilibrium between supply and demand for jobs, and not leave one group behind.''
The impact of immigration on low-wage American workers, he said, is probably worse than the study reports because it looked at data from before the current recession. Mr. Dane also said the study had failed to calculate the costs of illegal immigration, including unpaid taxes, money sent to other countries and drains on public services and health care.
From 1990 to 2007, Long Island's immigrant population rose about 62 percent, to about 449,000 from about 277,600, the report said. During that period, the growth of the American-born population did not keep pace, so the immigrant share of the overall population also increased, to 16 percent from 11 percent.
The researchers also found that during those two decades, immigrants' share of overall economic output on Long Island rose, to 18 percent from 12 percent, even though their earnings were generally lower than those of their American-born counterparts.
The study said that immigrants on Long Island worked in a wide range of occupations, belying a common perception that foreign-born residents were concentrated in low-wage, low-skilled jobs. About 53 percent of the immigrants in the labor force are in white-collar occupations, including about 16 percent of Long Island's executive, administrative and managerial workers; about 22 percent of highly educated professionals like doctors, lawyers and engineers; and about 26 percent of the registered nurses, therapists and pharmacists, the study said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A public forum at Hofstra University on Wednesday where a discussion was held on a study showing that more than half of Long Island's immigrant workers hold white-collar jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MEN (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); WOMEN (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); CENSUS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



644 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Panel Delays Report

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a divided vote, the panel created by Congress to investigate the causes of the financial crisis said on Wednesday that it would delay its report until the end of January because it had not completed its work. Its report was due by Dec. 15. 
''We want to make sure we can appropriately complete our ongoing investigations,'' Phil Angelides, the chairman of the panel, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, said in an interview. ''Our central mission is to get as many facts in front of the American people as possible. I will stand firm for that, and not let it be cut short.''
Mr. Angelides said that the commission had already arranged for the report to be published by PublicAffairs, part of the Perseus Books Group, in print and electronic form. The commission also plans to publish the report and accompanying investigative materials on the Web.
Since January, the commission has organized six hearings in Washington, four hearings in communities hard-hit by the economic downturn and an academic forum with finance experts. But the commission has been hobbled by staff turnover, internal clashes among commission members and limited resources. It has about 40 employees and was given an extra $1.8 million on top of its original $8 million budget.
Of the 10 commissioners, the four who were appointed by Republicans voted against the delay.
The four dissenters were Bill Thomas, a former congressman from California who is vice chairman of the commission; Keith Hennessey, a former aide to President George W. Bush; Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office; and Peter J. Wallison, who served in the Reagan administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLISHING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: PERSEUS BOOKS GROUP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: KEITH HENNESSEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



645 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Target Says It Expects Better Holiday Sales

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Target Corporation said it expected to post its best same-store sales in three years during the holiday season, sending its shares up.
The discount chain benefited from the strong performance of its credit card business in its third quarter. It said it believed that it would lure more shoppers during the holidays with a new credit card program that offers 5 percent off all purchases and a bigger array of fresh food.
Wal-Mart said Tuesday that it expected to break a six-quarter streak of same-store sales declines in the United States during the holiday shopping season in the fourth quarter. 
''Target has more catalysts behind it right now (for a) better holiday season than Wal-Mart,'' said Brian Sozzi, an analyst at Wall Street Strategies. He has a rating of neutral on both chains.
Separately, BJ's Wholesale Club posted a higher-than-expected quarterly profit, helped by cost cuts, and raised its full-year forecast, which sent its shares up more than 3 percent.
Target's sales in the United States have grown as consumers who feel more secure in their jobs trade up to its stores from rivals like Wal-Mart for trendier clothing and home furnishings. Traffic at its stores rose more than 2 percent in the third quarter and the company forecast a same-store sales rise of 2 to 4 percent in the fourth quarter.
''While consumers remain conservative in their purchasing behavior, we're encouraged by recent signs in the broader economy that may signal somewhat stronger and more stable sales in the coming months,'' Gregg W. Steinhafel, Target's chief executive, said in a call, citing a slightly improved job market.
He expects the company's merchandising plans and credit card discounts will drive fourth-quarter same-store sales to be the ''best of any quarter in the last three years.''
Target is also betting on its store credit cards and has said that shoppers who use them typically spend 50 percent more at its stores over the course of a year.
Many retail investors are betting on discounters this year as shoppers search for bargains in a slowly recovering economy.
Target's earnings for the third quarter, which ended Oct. 30, rose to $535 million, or 74 cents a share, from $436 million, or 58 cents a share, a year earlier.
Excluding a tax benefit, that matched the analysts' average estimate.
Target previously said sales rose 3 percent, to $15.23 billion in the third quarter. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1.6 percent.
BJ's results reflected increased membership income and share buybacks.
BJ's said net income rose to $23 million, or 43 cents a share, in its third quarter, which ended in October, from $17.4 million, or 32 cents a share, a year earlier.
Analysts on average were expecting earnings of 36 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
Excluding a charge for a legal settlement, the year-earlier profit was 45 cents a share.
Earlier this month, the company said sales rose 4.8 percent, to $2.57 billion.
The company now expects full-year earnings of $2.48 to $2.52 a share, compared with its previous outlook of $2.40 to $2.50. Analysts on average forecast $2.45.
Shares of BJ's rose $1.37, or 3 percent, to $47.54. Shares of Target rose $2.08, or 3.8 percent, to $55.62.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); SALES FINANCING (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (98%); WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (74%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (98%); WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (98%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (98%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (74%)

PERSON: GREGG STEINHAFEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



646 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Just Wind, Baby

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Sports arenas and stadiums are all about getting the most number of people to spend the maximum amount of money in the shortest amount of time possible.
But a growing number of sports buildings from Boston to Los Angeles are becoming efficient in other ways, by saving energy and reducing waste with solar panels, low-flush toilets and composting.
On Thursday, the Philadelphia Eagles will announce perhaps the most ambitious green initiative yet: the installation of about 2,500 solar panels, 80 20-foot-high wind turbines and a generator that runs on natural gas and biodiesel so that Lincoln Financial Field, the Eagles' home, will be the first stadium capable of generating all its own electricity.
Becoming self-sufficient in energy is the latest in a string of environmentally friendly measures the Eagles have taken since they opened their stadium in 2003. (Coincidentally, the team's primary color is green.) Since then, many teams have introduced similar efficiency programs, and the four major sports leagues have set up programs to help their teams share information about how to use less energy, reduce waste and save money. 
As large as they are, sports stadiums consume just a sliver of the nation's energy and produce a fraction of its waste. But they are seen and used by millions of Americans every day, which has helped leagues counter the perception that sports teams are wasteful enterprises and in fact can convey socially responsible messages to fans of all political and economic stripes.
The Eagles' green efforts ''underscore the position that we are all very visible and can make a significant effort in our communities,'' said Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L. ''We think it's smart business and the right thing to do.''
To become self-sufficient, the Eagles have hired Solar Blue, a Florida-based company that will spend more than $30 million to install the solar panels, wind turbines and dual-fuel co-generation plant by the start of next season. Solar Blue chose vertical wind turbines because they produce less noise than bladed ones. They will also capture energy at night. The panels and turbines will meet about 25 percent of the stadium's energy needs, with the generator covering the remainder, and will be visible to fans in the stadium, on television and to drivers passing by.
The Eagles will pay Solar Blue fixed amounts for their energy with increases of 3 percent a year over 20 years, which gives Solar Blue a guaranteed buyer and the Eagles a predictable source of renewable energy without worrying about erratic spikes in prices. The Eagles expect that their alliance with Solar Blue will help reduce their energy costs by almost 25 percent in the first year. Solar Blue can sell any excess energy it creates to the local utility, PECO.
''This is an opportunity to not be the stereotypical sports franchise that is not on the cutting edge,'' said Jeffrey Lurie, the owner of the Eagles, who, with his wife, Christina, created a Go Green sustainability program in 2003. ''We've read a lot that excellent environmental practices are too expensive or not wise for a company. We challenged that.''
In some ways, stadiums and arenas are ideal for green initiatives because they typically have large roofs for solar panels and ample space for other equipment. Teams and their fans also consume vast amounts of energy, food and beverages, metals and paper goods that can be reduced or recycled.
Sports facilities are also where Main Street and Wall Street collide. Every day, hundreds of thousands of Americans watch sports live at arenas where companies from caterers to chemical makers have their goods on display. Teams are increasingly using their leverage to force these suppliers to go green with them.
''When sports say we're going to go solar or waterless, that sends an enormous message to the supply chain,'' said Allen Hershkowitz, who leads the Natural Resources Defense Council's sports greening initiative.
For example, the Eagles asked Aramark, the food service and cleaning contractor at Lincoln Financial Field, to use nontoxic cleaning supplies and to switch to more environmentally friendly cups and dinnerware. All toilet paper, tissues and towels at the team's facilities are made from 100 percent recycled fibers, which has helped the team recycle nearly 32 percent of its waste, twice as much as in 2008.
The team composts more than 25 tons of organic waste, and more than 10,000 gallons of grease and used kitchen oil last year were sent to processors that converted it into biodiesel. These and other measures, including halving the amount of water used by urinals, have helped the team save more than $3 million since 2005. The Eagles, like other teams, have been able to generate new revenue by selling sponsorships to companies interested in being linked to their green initiatives.
The Eagles are not alone in setting lofty goals. AEG, which operates the Staples Center in Los Angeles, the Rose Garden Arena in Portland and more than 100 other buildings, said Monday that by 2020, it plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent, use renewable energy to meet 15 percent of its electricity need and cut waste sent to landfills by 25 percent.
At New Meadowlands Stadium, which opened this summer, 83 percent of the construction waste was recycled and 92 percent of the materials from the demolished Giants Stadium were recycled.
On the energy side, the stadium's heating, cooling and ventilation systems use up to 50 percent less energy than older equipment. The installation of low-flush toilets and low-flow showerheads and faucets, as well as the stadium's synthetic turf, are part of a plan to use 9 million fewer gallons of water per year.
In St. Louis, the Cardinals have shaved 30 percent off their $100,000 annual trash hauling bill by composting their organic waste and selling their glass, aluminum and paper to recyclers. By installing motion sensors, better insulation and other measures, much of it subsidized by the local utility, the team has reduced its $2 million utility bill by 10 percent since 2008.
''The pressure to cut budgets is always there,'' said Joe Abernathy, vice president for stadium operations for the Cardinals.
In Seattle, the Mariners have cut their electric, gas, water and sewer bills by more than $1.2 million since 2006 by, among other things, adding new controls to the hot water heaters, air conditioners and water faucets, weatherstripping windows and simply persuading employees to shut garage doors and turn off lights.
''Imagine what it's like for mom and dad with three kids running around telling them to turn off the lights,'' said Scott Jenkins, the vice president for ballpark operations for the Mariners. ''Now imagine what it's like with 1,800 employees and 40,000 guests.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Renderings of Lincoln Financial Field, home of the Eagles, with wind turbines and solar panels that will be installed by the start of next season. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF PHILADELPHIA EAGLES AND SOLAR BLUE) (B18)
 Solar panels atop the Nokia Theater and the Staples Center in Los Angeles in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) (B23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); SPORTS (90%); WASTE REDUCTION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); POWER COGENERATION (72%); BIOFUELS (70%); WEATHER (70%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



647 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Finds Gas Mileage Improved In '09 Fleet

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Recession, it turns out, is good for fuel economy.
Gas mileage for 2009 model cars and trucks showed the largest increase since the oil crisis of nearly three decades ago, according to an annual report by the Environmental Protection Agency released on Wednesday.
The report found that the average fuel economy in 2009 model cars, vans, pickups and S.U.V.'s was 22.4 miles per gallon -- an increase of 7 percent, or 1.4 miles per gallon, over 2008 figures. 
The balance between cars and trucks also shifted, with the light truck segment -- including vans, pickups and S.U.V.'s -- slipping to 40 percent in 2009 models, a decrease of 7 percent from 2008 and 12 percent from the peak year of 2004, when the ''average'' car was a light truck. The truck share is now at its lowest level since 1995, the agency said.
The report tracked American car sales by 15 manufacturers, 14 of which showed mileage improvement.
Asian automakers, the report found, outdid their American counterparts, with both Toyota and Nissan showing higher-than-average increases in fuel economy -- in Toyota's case an increase of 2.6 miles per gallon, to 25.4 miles per gallon, in 2009 models; for Nissan, an increase of 1.7 miles per gallon, to 23.6 miles per gallon.
Chrysler, which had strong sales of big pickups and S.U.V.'s, showed a small decline in fuel efficiency, to 19.2 miles per gallon in 2009 models from 19.3 in 2008 models.
General Motors came in fourth from the bottom, at 20.6 miles per gallon, trailed by Ford at 20.3, Daimler at 19.5 and Chrysler. Their rankings reflected in part whether the companies specialized in large or small vehicles.
Whether buyers chose 2009 model cars or light trucks, they picked smaller ones, the report found. Average vehicle weight, which generally correlates with size, dropped 4 percent, or 168 pounds, to 3,917 pounds. Average truck weight dropped by 100 pounds and average car weight dropped by 60 pounds.
At the same time, vehicle production, the E.P.A. said, was 9.2 million units, the lowest since the agency began keeping records in 1975. And the percentage of hybrid vehicles dropped to 2.3 percent in 2009 models from 2.5 percent the previous year, probably because hybrids were more expensive. The proportion of diesels rose to 0.5 percent, from 0.1 percent.
Environmentalists hailed the news.
''It took a recession to achieve the first substantial improvements in gas consumption in 30 years,'' Dan Becker, the director of the Safe Climate Campaign, said in a statement.
He noted that new standards announced by the White House earlier this year would enforce a 6 percent annual increase in fuel economy, improving, he said, ''environment, energy security and the automakers' health without a recession.''
The government announced standards in April that would raise fuel economy to 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016 in combined city and highway driving. In May, President Obama told government agencies to develop a stricter rule for 2017 and beyond.
David Friedman, an expert on cars at the Union of Concerned Scientists, noted that the owners of the 9.2 million 2009 model vehicles sold would save $1 billion in fuel in their first year of ownership, a figure based on a new car driven about 15,000 miles a year and a gasoline price of slightly less than $3 a gallon.
He said that because the choice of high-mileage vehicles in the marketplace was limited last year, most people who chose such vehicles had to give up something, often in size and horsepower. But with the advent of more efficient fuel technologies, he said, choices will improve.
The model year 2009 was the first full model year after gasoline prices peaked in July 2008. But with the recession ending, and gasoline prices lower, the rise in fuel economy may be ending, as well. Preliminary data from 2010 models shows fuel economy averaging 22.5 miles per gallon, an improvement of only 0.1 mile per gallon 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRUCKING (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



648 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Extend a Subway Line Under the Hudson? For Two Men, It's Hardly a New Idea

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Steve Lanset said he was ''totally blown away'' when he read on his computer on Tuesday night that New York City officials were thinking of extending a subway line to New Jersey.
Mr. Lanset, who lives in Jersey City, liked the idea. Indeed, he has liked it for, oh, about five years, since he helped create a Web site dedicated to it -- SubwaytoSecaucus.com. But judging by the response to that site, few people warmed up to the idea.
''It didn't seem to have the wildfire effect that we had hoped,'' Mr. Lanset said Wednesday. 
His collaborator, Ralph Braskett, said he had received a lot of ''abuse'' and very little praise for promoting a subway stop alongside the New Jersey Turnpike.
Thus, the two men were more than a little surprised to learn that stretching the No. 7 line westward to Secaucus was gaining traction at City Hall.
After a plan for a commuter-train tunnel under the Hudson River was scrapped, some developers have convinced city officials that a subway extension could be the next best solution. They estimated it could double the capacity for commuters into the city at about half the price of the rail tunnel, which Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said would cost billions of dollars more than his state could afford.
On Wednesday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg attributed the idea to recent ''thinking totally out of the box'' by Robert Steel, his new deputy mayor for economic development.
Neither Mr. Braskett nor Mr. Lanset had any expertise in transit planning when they first broached the idea. Neither is even a commuter anymore. They simply believed there was a better, less costly way to ease the crush on trains and buses between New Jersey and Manhattan, they said.
Mr. Braskett, an actuary who works from his home in Plainfield, N.J., said he thought the rail-tunnel plan was seriously flawed because it did not deliver commuters directly to any subway line, another train station or to the East Side of Manhattan. Having lived in Brooklyn for more than 20 years, he said, he knew enough about the subway to recognize its potential for carrying people under the Hudson, if only officials on both sides of the river could work together.
He proposed the idea at a public hearing on the rail tunnel, and he and Mr. Lanset wrote an essay in The Record newspaper in Bergen County in February 2006 that made the case for the subway to Secaucus. It did not reroute the debate.
''We were not greeted with open arms and great enthusiasm over this idea,'' said Mr. Lanset, who recently left a longtime job as a programmer for an investment bank in Manhattan.
Mr. Braskett described the response as less charitable. ''I received abuse from N.J. Transit, I received abuse from the rail nuts,'' he recalled, referring to ardent fans of train service. ''They'd tell me I'm crazy.''
New Jersey Transit officials had considered a subway extension about 10 years ago, but dropped the idea because, they said, it would not provide as much ''passenger convenience and time savings'' as a rail tunnel and it would not adequately reduce congestion in existing rail tunnels or at Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan. New Jersey Transit representatives declined to comment about the revival of the idea.
The concept was buried so deeply that even the Sierra Club of New Jersey did not have a view on it, though Mr. Lanset is the group's transportation issues coordinator.
Jeff Tittel, the spokesman for the club, said: ''There have been people within the Sierra Club for 15 years talking about it. It just seemed to make common sense.''
While no officials or transportation planners contacted Mr. Braskett or Mr. Lanset about the idea, Mr. Braskett said he had a hunch that the new plan had borrowed from his older one. ''We said it would take half the money and half the time'' as building the rail tunnel, he said, noting that city officials were making a similar claim.
But even if the discussion at City Hall never leads to the first extension of a subway line beyond the city's boundaries, Mr. Lanset and Mr. Braskett were feeling on Wednesday as though their advocacy had not been wasted.
''I certainly felt some validation and vindication,'' Mr. Lanset said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Lanset, above, and a collaborator, Ralph Braskett, drew up a plan about five years ago, right, to run the No. 7 subway line into New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (87%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); MEN (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (68%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



649 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Fed Requires Test for Banks Before Restoring Dividend

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve will require big banks to undergo a new round of stress tests -- this time, to determine if they are sound enough to begin raising their stock dividends.
The announcement from the Fed, made Wednesday, came after banks pressured regulators for months to let financial companies restore dividends. The dividends were reduced sharply after the federal rescue of the financial system.
The Fed will require the 19 financial institutions that underwent stress tests during the financial crisis to undergo new reviews. As part of the exam, they must submit capital plans by Jan. 7 that show their ability to withstand losses under ''adverse'' economic conditions over the next two years. 
The banks must demonstrate they are strong enough to meet new capital requirements stemming from international accords and the recent overhaul of financial regulations by Washington. They also must have fully repaid any federal bailout funds they accepted at the height of the crisis.
Although regulators typically incorporate stress tests and capital plans into standard bank reviews, this is the first time since the financial crisis that all 19 large institutions have been required to undergo such tests simultaneously. Unlike the results of the earlier tests, in spring of 2009, the new findings will not be made public, the Fed said.
Still, the latest tests could help calm the financial markets, which have been unsettled lately by concerns over the financial health of some European countries and the fragile United States economy. If the Fed is confident enough to allow banks to return capital to shareholders that they had been hoarding, it could be another sign of the financial industry's rapid recovery.
Assuming the tests go well, analysts expect lenders that are flush with capital to start raising their dividend payments or buying back large blocks of their shares in the first quarter. Bank of New York Mellon, JPMorgan Chase, and US Bancorp were among the big companies to express a preference for moving quickly on investor conference calls during the third quarter.
But weaker banks might be sidelined from doing so for months, if not longer.
Citigroup said that it would be in a position to consider raising its dividend, or more likely institute a stock repurchase program, in 2012; Bank of America remained vague about its timetable. The Federal Reserve said it expected any capital plans that imply a dividend ratio above 30 percent of after-tax net income to receive particularly close scrutiny.
Several regional lenders -- including Fifth Third Bank, KeyCorp, SunTrust Banks and Regions Financial -- would be barred from raising their dividends. None of them has fully repaid their bailout money.
As a result, the stress test could prompt those smaller institutions to pay back the government so they would not be disadvantaged by larger rivals. It may also cause other small banks to return the money quicker.
''One of the hidden messages is that the government wants to get its money back as fast as it can,'' said Gerard Cassidy, a veteran banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets. ''This is a subtle way of telling the banks, 'If you want to start paying dividends, pay us back first.' ''
The market for raising equity has not been as strong as in the spring of 2009. That could pose significant challenges for banks seeking to raise capital and return bailout money quickly.
Fed officials appear to be using the stress tests to address a wide range of concerns. Regulators plan to test whether the banks can fully absorb losses over the next two years under a set of unspecified mild and adverse economic conditions. They also are expecting the banks to have sound estimates of additional risks, like exposure to mortgages they might be required to buy back. Also, the banks must outline how they plan to adapt to the new financial overhaul rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); U S BANCORP (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); KEYCORP (58%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (51%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); FITB (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (64%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); KEY (NYSE) (58%); STI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



650 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
5:13 p.m. Updated Goldman Sachs has selected 110 executives to become partners, one of the most lucrative tickets on Wall Street.
Kelvin Koh, an oil and gas analyst, and Dina Powell, head of corporate engagement at Goldman and a former official in the last Bush administration, were among the 110. Dhruv Piplani, a trader, and Daniel Wainstein, a banker, also made the list.
Other notable names include David Kostin, the economist who replaced Abby Joseph Cohen in 2008 as the firm's chief market strategist, and Dane Holmes, the head of investor relations. 
In an e-mail to staff on Wednesday from Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, and president, Gary Cohn, noted the decision of who to pick -- and not to pick -- was difficult: ''We are confident that many of them [executives who didn't make the cut] will be selected in the future.''
Goldman spends months vetting potential partners. Goldman usually picks 100 or so new ones every two years; in 2008, 94 were named.
Executives can spend years trying to make the cut. Those selected are typically rewarded financially and have an inside track to top jobs a the firm. Employees who don't make the cut sometimes leave. Goldman also culls the existing partner pool, stripping partnerships from executives who have previously made the cut, a process known as de-partnering. Goldman was looking to strip partnerships from an unusually high number of executives this year to make way for new blood. However, how many will be or have been stripped of their partnership is not known as Goldman does not announce the size of the partnership pool.
Goldman has roughly 35,000 employees, but typically only 375 or so become partner. The average tenure of a partner is about eight years. Candidates are judged on many qualities, primarily their financial contribution to the firm. But lawyers and risk managers -- who are not big revenue producers -- can also make it to the inner circle.
The executives responsible for running the partner process this year are the vice chairmen, J. Michael Evans, Michael S. Sherwood and John S. Weinberg; the head of human resources, Edith W. Cooper; and Mr. Cohn.
Wednesday's announcement increases the partnership pool to 470 people, but overtime it will be reduced as people retire or are ''de-partnered,'' or stripped or their partner status.
Here is the rest of the new class of Goldman partners:
Chuck AdamsSamuel W. FinkelsteinMatthew F. MallgraveStephen B. ScobieNick S. AdvaniMatthew R. GibsonAlain MarcusJohn C. ShafferWilliam D. AndersonMichelle GillRobert A. MassKonstantin A. ShakhnovichScott B. BarringerMichael J. GrimaldiMatthew B. McClureDaniel M. ShefterGareth W. BaterDylan S. HalterleinPatrick S. McClymontMichael L. SimpsonTracey E. BenfordElizabeth M. HammackDermot W. McDonoghMark R. SorrellAvanish R. BhavsarRichard P. McNeilJ. Richard SuthV. Bunty BohraNing HongAvinash MehrotraJasper TansStefan R. BollingerShin HorieJonathan M. MeltzerPatrick Tassin de NonnevilleRobert BoroujerdiStephanie HuiBruce H. MendelsohnMegan M. TaylorAlison L. BottEric S. JordanPeeyush MisraTeresa TeagueSally A. BoyleVijay M. KarnaniBryan P. MixPawan TewariChristoph BrandChristopher M. KeoghAtosa MoiniKlaus B. ToftTorrey J. BrowderPeter KimpelRicardo MoraKenro TsutsumiPhilippe L. CamuKelvin KohEzra V. NahumRichard TufftDonald J. CasturoAdam M. KornNigel M. O'SullivanToshihiko UmetaniChia-Lin ChangNirubhan PathmanabhanJonathan R. VanicaSteven N. ChoJoerg H. KukiesJonathan M. PenkinPhilip J. VenablesDavid T. Y. ChouAndre Laport RibeiroMichelle H. PinggeraSimone VerriThalia ChryssikouGeoffery LeeDhruv PiplaniDaniel WainsteinColin ColemanLaurent LelloucheDina H. PowellKevin A. WalkerKenneth W. CoquilletteEugene H. LeouzonSumit RajpalRobert P. WallCyril CottuWayne M. LeslieGanesh RamaniDavid D. WildermuthMassimo Della RagioneJohn R. LeveneJames H. ReynoldsChang-Po YangMichele I. DochartyLeland LimStuart RileyAlan ZhangDavid P. EismanLindsay P. LoBueKarl J. RobijnsXing ZhangHarry EliadesDavid B. LudwigCraig RussellChristopher EoyangRaghav MaliahLuke A. Sarsfield III
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



651 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: A Lucky Few, This Band of Brothers, and the Less Blood Shed the Better

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
''REPEAT after us,'' begins a new print ad by the Art of Shaving, an upscale brand of products that includes shaving cream for $22 and shaving brushes for as much as $600. ''I will not let my son shave with a plastic razor.'' The ad, like several in the new campaign, concludes with the tagline, ''Welcome to the brotherhood of shaving.''
Although the brand is 14 years old and is sold in 43 Art of Shaving stores in the United States as well as in department stores like Bloomingdale's and Neiman Marcus, this national advertising campaign is its first. The ads, by BBDO New York, part of the Omnicom Group, first appeared in Grand Central Terminal this month and will run in the December issues of men's magazines like Esquire, GQ and Details. 
The consumer-goods giant Procter & Gamble bought the Art of Shaving in a 2009 acquisition that, along with its purchase of Gillette in 2005, reflects that the company, which in the past marketed products almost exclusively to women, is now pitching to men, too.
''When we acquired Gillette, that was entirely the company's desire, to play in the 'he' space as well as the 'she' space,'' said Damon Jones, a Procter & Gamble spokesman. ''If we are going to win with men, we have to be serious about them.''
Mr. Jones declined to reveal how much was being spent on the campaign for the Art of Shaving. Gillette, which also makes deodorant and other products, spent $185.7 million on advertising in 2009, according to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP.
The market for men's shaving and skin care products has doubled over 12 years, to $4.8 billion in 2009 from $2.4 billion in 1997, according to Euromonitor International, a market research firm.
What's known in the industry as the prestige channel, which includes brands like the Art of Shaving that are sold by upscale retailers, is also growing, in spite of the economic downturn. From Jan. 1 to Oct. 10, sales of men's prestige skin care products totaled almost $53 million, a 5 percent increase from the same period in 2009, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm.
Myriam Zaoui and Eric Malka, who are married, were in their 20s and first dating in New York in 1995 when Ms. Zaoui, working as an aesthetician doing facials at a day spa, grew concerned about the shaving irritation Mr. Malka was experiencing. It was bad enough that he took to shaving at night in the hope that the redness would disappear by morning.
Ms. Zaoui, who grew up in Paris, recalled that her father had the same problem and had applied Johnson's Baby Oil before applying shaving cream, to ease irritation. Rather than suggest that, she formulated a preshave oil that contained botanical extracts and essential oils. The concoction let Mr. Malka enjoy an irritation-free shave.
In 1996, suspecting that men would pay a premium for a better shave, the couple opened their first Art of Shaving store, on the Upper East Side. Today, about half of the company's stores offer shaving services, and Mr. Malka said that both barbers and sales clerks reinforced the approach that every shave required four steps: prepare (with a preshave oil), lather (with cream and a brush), shave and moisturize (with after-shave balm).
''The more that we presented the four elements as one system, the more that consumers came on board with the system and the faster the company grew,'' Mr. Malka said.
Kits containing toiletries for all four steps, some with razors and shaving brushes as well, account for 30 percent of revenue.
In his book, ''Accidental Branding,'' David Vinjamuri includes a chapter about the Art of Shaving. The book explains how the brand capitalized on the metrosexual trend popularized about a decade ago, when more men began to acknowledge exfoliating, while steering clear of the metrosexual reaction that ridiculed primping as unmanly.
''The genius insight behind the Art of Shaving as a brand,'' Mr. Vinjamuri wrote, in describing both the design of the first store and the brand generally, ''was to infuse the grooming practices of the metrosexual movement with a deeply masculine flavor taken from traditional English barbering shops.''
While women may compliment one another on lipstick or recommend a nail polish, ''the topic of shaving isn't something that guys are sitting around a bar talking to each other about,'' said Mr. Jones, of Procter & Gamble.
While the tone of the new Art of Shaving ads, with copy like ''Repeat after us: I will resist the urge to bring my shaving brush out at parties,'' is tongue-in-cheek, the overall brotherhood theme tries to ''create a comfortable space for men to talk to each other and to trusted experts'' about shaving, said Mr. Jones.
Mr. Vinjamuri said in an interview that the Art of Shaving was an ''insider brand,'' meaning that it was favored by consumers who prided themselves on being in the know, and who looked askance at products they deemed too mainstream. ''I think it's quite a good creative hook to think of it as a 'brotherhood of shaving,' '' he said, ''because the only way to be introduced into a brotherhood is by a brother.''
He also said Procter & Gamble, which typically advertises on television, was wise to limit the campaign primarily to men's magazines, because a television campaign could dilute the insider mystique of the brand.
''I certainly wouldn't want to see this on TV, but I like it in print,'' Mr. Vinjamuri said. ''It feels to me like the kind of thing you want to see when you're sort of in the company of men, and you feel like that when you're reading Details or GQ.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A print ad for the Art of Shaving. The market for men's shaving and skin care products has doubled in the last 12 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); MEN (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MEN'S MARKET (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (62%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); BBDO NEW YORK (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (83%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



652 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: For a Second Quarter, Fewer Pay for TV

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
7:37 p.m. Updated
The number of Americans who pay for television service has dropped for the second quarter in a row, the media research firm SNL Kagan said on Wednesday. 
The decline in customers reflected the weak economy, but it also heightened concerns about cord-cutting - concerns that SNL Kagan said were becoming ''increasingly difficult to dismiss.''
In the second quarter of 2010, 216,000 people canceled their cable, satellite or telecommunications subscriptions, according to the firm's research. Distributors as a whole had never endured a decline.
Then it happened again in the third quarter, when 119,000 people canceled subscriptions.
The numbers sent a chill through the television industry, which depends in large part on the fees that are collected by television distributors.
When the second-quarter numbers were released in August, some wondered if they were an anomaly in the steady upward march of pay television, which has been supported by population growth and the popularity of TV. But with the third-quarter numbers also showing a decline, cord-cutting - which is a reference to people who cancel cable and cobble together a low-cost diet of TV via the Internet - is getting a closer look.
Ian Olgeirson, a senior analyst at SNL Kagan, said in a statement on Wednesday that cable and satellite companies were ''pointing to a continuation of the forces that pushed subscriber gains into negative territory in the second quarter, including the weak economy, high unemployment and elevated churn of former over-the-air households.'' However, he added, it is ''becoming increasingly difficult to dismiss the impact of over-the-top substitution on video subscriber performance.''
The third quarter of the year tends to produce the largest subscriber gains of any quarter, according to Mr. Olgeirson, ''due to seasonal shifts back to television viewing and subscription packages.'' In the third quarter of 2009, distributors added 346,000 subscribers.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



653 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; LIVING TOGETHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2340 words

HEADLINE: The Brady Bunch? Let's Not Go Too Far

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
BEGIN with one formerly married couple and an amicable divorce. (Don't snort, it happens.) Add children, maybe two or three. Give each former spouse a new partner. Perhaps the new partners have children, too. Add them. Oh, and the new partners' exes. Factor in an equitable (say, nearly 50-50) physical custody arrangement for all the parties.
What do you have? For many couples, it's a complex data set in search of an equally complex algorithm to tame it. Do they move in together, mixing developing teenagers like snarling cats in a bag? Or are they risk-averse, maintaining separate households and seeing one another on the odd weekend?
Or perhaps they are fortunate enough to establish some sort of contiguous living arrangement, like the members of the Curtis-Hetfield-Petrini household, who have as irresistible a scenario as anyone could devise. 
On a recent bright Sunday, they were all at home together in their two-family brick town house in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn: Sarah Curtis, a 42-year-old preschool teacher; her daughter, Ella Hetfield, 10; Ms. Curtis's partner of more than six years, John Petrini, 50, a molecular biologist; his daughter, Ramona, 13; and his son, Joe, 9.
They had all had breakfast in Ms. Curtis's sleek bamboo kitchen. Ms. Curtis made waffles; Mr. Petrini made bacon upstairs in his apartment and brought it down with him. The night before, they had had dinner at the Curtis-Hetfield dining table and then moved upstairs to watch ''The Birdcage'' in Mr. Petrini's living room (his television is closer to the fireplace). Then they all retired to their own bedrooms, including Ms. Curtis and Mr. Petrini. Hers opens to the garden; his is on the third floor. (A pause to savor the luxury that each member of this family enjoys.)
''I do have to share a bathroom with my children, but I don't have to share a closet with anyone,'' Mr. Petrini said. ''That's very big.''
Theirs is a family model at the midpoint between Woody and Mia and Carol and Mike (as in Brady). It is a post-divorce living arrangement -- you might call it the unblended or partly blended family -- that some couples are pursuing to promote the well-being (and sanity) of children and adults.
''We were both really concerned with maintaining a level of consistency with our children,'' Ms. Curtis said. ''And, quite frankly, I had been on my own for a number of years and I liked it. I was reluctant to give up that independence. We are committed to each other, we own a house together. I love our situation and the way it is divided up, but it's not a marriage, it's something different.''
Her mother was wary at first, Ms. Curtis said, but she has come around. During the renovation of the house, one of the roofers applauded a family bolstered by separate households. ''He was an older guy, someone you'd expect to be very traditional,'' Ms. Curtis said. ''But he kept saying, 'That's the best idea ever!' ''
The old, Brady Bunch stepfamily model -- the so-called ''blended family'' -- has long been out of favor. Indeed, the term is almost universally loathed by family therapists for the unrealistic expectations it promotes of previously unrelated children blending harmoniously with one another and a new adult, and the disjunction between that rosy vision and the more prickly reality that is stepfamily life.
Into the breach pour all manner of scenarios: stepfamilies whose children move in and out of the home following various custody decisions; the nesters, whose children remain in the family home, while the parents move in and out on a schedule; the partial-blenders, like Ms. Curtis and Mr. Petrini; and the Living Apart Togethers, or L.A.T.'s, to use the term for couples who maintain entirely separate residences.
As Susan Stewart, a sociologist at Iowa State University who studies how families form and change over time, observed: ''The complexity of families is the real story. Family life is not what it was. The divorce rate'' -- roughly half of all first marriages still end in divorce -- ''has been high and stable since the 1980s. The majority of these people go on to marry or cohabit. Then there's the change in custody patterns, with more and more fathers desiring more time with their children, if not full or shared custody. The traditional family -- the married-couple-biological-children family -- is in the minority.''
Today, there's not one container for this new, many-tentacled thing called ''a family.''
''Children are a disincentive to marry or cohabit,'' Dr. Stewart said. ''It's why fewer women marry after divorce than men.''
But what's really driving the practice of committed couples with children living in separate abodes, Dr. Stewart continued, ''is that middle- and upper-income women have their own money and independence. They are working, and can live on their own.''
Just as Dr. Stewart, 42, does, maintaining her own house in Ames, Iowa, a few blocks away but on the same street as her ex-husband, with whom she shares custody of their 7-year-old daughter. Their daughter spends alternating weeks with each parent, ''but it's more fluid than that because we are both professors, we both have conferences for work,'' Dr. Stewart said, and she ''has to be picked up from this or that, so we talk and/or see each other every day because we are co-parenting.''
Dr. Stewart's partner of three years, Christopher Missel, 37, an architect, lives 40 minutes away, in his own house in Des Moines. Mr. Missel has never been married and is used to being on his own, but the real reason they don't move in together, Dr. Stewart said, is her own need for autonomy after 13 years of marriage and a painful second marriage that lasted a month.
''I had bought a house with this person,'' she said of her second husband, and the plan was to blend his family and hers. ''My daughter was very attached. We divorced quickly, but the house didn't sell for a year. I was still digging out from a lot of drama and financial complications when I met Chris.''
She continued: ''If he and I were to break up, my daughter would be sad, but she wouldn't be devastated, because I am able to keep both relationships relatively separate. It's about ensuring that she doesn't have another loss. Research shows that the well-being of a child is less about having an intact family, it's about the number of transitions'' -- meaning, she said, a move or a new relationship that comes into the house.
''We know that kids with two married parents do better,'' she said. ''A lot of that can be explained by other factors like income or residential stability. For example, there is very little difference in the well-being of children from single-mother households and a household with a mother and a stepfather. But it's one more layer of complexity.''
And couples who remarry have a 60 percent chance of divorcing; some demographers put that figure closer to 70 percent when one or both of the spouses have children from a prior relationship.
''Not cohabiting is a way of having a relationship when there's a lot of obstacles,'' Dr. Stewart said. ''Not all women can do this, of course. It makes more economic sense to share resources. If I didn't have enough money to live on my own, Chris wouldn't be the best partner for me.''
Yet the economy is one factor freezing some new couples in place and apart.
Jenni Lorsung, 44, a writer in Burnsville, Minn., has three children from a 20-year marriage that ended a year and a half ago. Her ex-husband was her guarantor on the mortgage for her new house, she said, which she delights in running herself. She married right out of college, and had never lived alone.
Still, she would consider moving in with her boyfriend, John McNamara, 46, an architect, except that he lives across the street from her ex. ''That would be awkward,'' she said.
And Mr. McNamara would move in with her if he were able to sell his own house. ''But the market stinks,'' she said.
Another wrinkle is Mr. McNamara's custody arrangement with his pre-teen son, whom he sees a day or so every other week, time he cherishes.
''On the practical side,'' Ms. Lorsung said, ''we're dealing with three E's: the economy and our two exes. On the emotional side, I wanted to make sure my kids were transitioning O.K. with their two new households. My sons would love for John to move in, or for us to move there. We joke it's because he has an Xbox and I don't. My daughter still struggles with needing time with me. I try to be responsive to that.'' Families, she concluded, ''don't have to be two married people with kids -- it can be this. That's what we keep trying to say. This is a redefinition for us.''
Family therapists like to think of the state of maintaining separate residences as a temporary one, a transition toward moving in together, except in extreme situations.
Patricia Papernow, a clinical instructor in the Department of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School and a therapist who specializes in stepfamilies, recalled a couple who had moved in together -- with his two girls and her three boys -- with disastrous results.
''One of the daughters had major sensory processing issues, and she ended up in the hospital with a suicide attempt,'' Dr. Papernow said. ''It was all too much for this kid. The family cultures were just too different.''
She described a mashup of two divergent family styles: hers, loud, sporty and chaotic, with lots of sharing of stuff; his, quiet and neat, with distinct boundaries.
''It was easy for the grown-ups to say the girl was being manipulative,'' she said. ''But let's define manipulative: 'I'm trying to get something that I need and I'm going about it in this indirect way because nobody's listening.' The girl needed her father's attention. Also, the adults were at each other's throats. Perhaps if the adults had been able to stay calm and collected, things would have worked out differently. Or maybe not.''
The father and his two daughters moved out for a few years, but the couple stayed married. ''It was very painful for the adults,'' Dr. Papernow said. ''They lost their daily contact with each other, but they also lost that incredible tension.''
It was an imperfect solution, she concluded, but then added: ''It was imperfect if the idea was that we are all going to live together. But these are solutions to hard problems and we have to think outside the box. If you have to live in two boxes instead of one, that's a much better solution than shoving everyone together in one box.''
Julie Friedman, a broker with Bellmarc Realty in Manhattan, recalled a scene at an open house she held last summer, in a three-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side. A woman walked in and then burst into tears. As Ms. Friedman soon learned, the woman was divorced and had two children. She had recently sold her large Upper West Side apartment and moved in with her fiance, who had shared custody of his three children.
''She described the scenario as warfare,'' Ms. Friedman said. ''All the children were teenagers, and his were very territorial, landmines at every turn, and that soured the relationship between her and her fiance. After six months, he asked her to move out. Maybe not blending has merit.''
On the other hand, cautioned Ms. Friedman, who has a Ph.D. in social work: ''Looking at this from family systems therapy, which emphasizes working through family dynamics to a resolution, a couple can't completely unify when the dividing line is literally at the front door. While it's beautiful to put your children's emotional and physical needs paramount, by denying a bonded relationship with a new partner or spouse, you are sending a clear message to the children that they don't have to adjust to new, possibly difficult scenarios and that the parent will defer to the child through sacrifice and martyrdom.''
Of course, in New York City, everything is possible when good fortune and real estate collide. Mr. Petrini moved to his three-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn four and a half years ago from Manhattan, so his children could be closer to his ex-wife, who had also moved and with whom he shares custody. In 2007, when the house came on the market, he and Ms. Curtis, who were already involved, bought it together, at which point they renovated, creating two very individual containers for each household.
There is a clear aesthetic dividing line between the two -- a psychological division -- in addition to the staircase. The front hall is open to Ms. Curtis's parlor-level living room, and to the stairs up to Mr. Petrini's apartment. Ms. Curtis's daughter, Ella, spends every other weekend and every weeknight here but Tuesday, when she is with her father in Manhattan. Mr. Petrini's children, Ramona and Joe, are here every weekend, and Wednesday nights.
The contiguous apartment scenario eliminates some basic stepparenting snags -- Ella is expected to make her bed, and if Ramona and Joe were living in Ms. Curtis's house, they would be, too, and that's a turf battle everyone is happy to avoid. But it preserves many of the benefits.
''I was worried about Ella being an only child,'' Ms. Curtis said. ''Years ago I had considered adopting, but then I worried how a child with no father would feel as the sibling of a child with a very involved father.''
But the Petrini-Hetfield clan consider themselves siblings, all three said. ''Joe and I fight like brother and sister,'' Ella said proudly.
Sitting in the sun-filled parlor, with Ella and Joe perched on either side of her, Ramona added:
''Sometimes I feel like this family -- it's more picturesque than my mom's family, which is a single mom with two kids. Sometimes I feel bad that it looks this way, though my mom understands that she is more unorthodox. As comfortable and nice as it is here, it's not better, it's just different.''
Like any family, this one has evolved its own rituals. On Christmas, that means two trees, one for each household -- hers with white lights; his with colored -- and a night of decorating both.
''It started out as a competition,'' Mr. Petrini said. ''And now it's this great tradition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT A HOUSE HOLDS: The Curtis-Hetfield- Petrini clan, at home in their two-family town house in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. (D1)
UPSTAIRS, DOWNSTAIRS: Ramona and Joe Petrini, above, live with their father on the top two floors
Sarah Curtis and Ella Hetfield, right, share the ground floor space. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TREVOR TONDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
APART BUT NEARBY: Jenni Lorsung and John McNamara, left, live in separate houses in different towns in Minnesota (behind them is Ms. Lorsung's daughter). Susan Stewart and Chris Missel, right, are apart-but-together, too, in Iowa: she and her daughter have a house on the same street as her ex-husband, in Ames
 Mr. Missel is in Des Moines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES , BRIAN FRANK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (59%) IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



654 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WOOD, GARLAND E

 BODY:
WOOD--Garland E. Garland Wood, an innovator in the municipal bonds market, passed away on Monday, November 15, after a long illness. He was 66. Mr. Wood rose through the ranks at Goldman Sachs over two decades to become a renowned leader and innovator in public finance. He is widely recognized as being instrumental in leading the firm's advanced refunding efforts in the late 70s and early 80s. Garland Wood was born on December 29, 1943. He earned a BA from Columbia and remained there to pursue his MBA, graduating in 1972. Following graduation, Mr. Wood joined the Securities Division at Goldman Sachs in the Municipal Bonds Department. 
Mr. Wood distinguished himself early in his career by creating strategies that allowed the firm's clients to convert standing bonds from high to low interest rates. He also played a significant role in the firm's early work financing single family housing and helped to establish Goldman Sachs' leadership as a top firm in the tax-exempt business. The firm named Mr. Wood a general partner in 1986, making him the first black professional to reach the top tier of leadership at Goldman Sachs and among the first black partners on Wall Street. Mr. Wood retired from Goldman Sachs in 1994 and remained an advisor to the firm for many years. Mr. Wood is survived by his children, Michelle, Cynthia and Scott Wood, all of New York; his mother, Lou Lee Wood of Prairie View, Texas; his brothers, Curtis Wood Jr. of New York City and Craig Wood of Prairie View; and his sisters, Barbara Wood Harrison of Washington DC, Beth Setrakian and Gina Hector, both of San Francisco, California. A memorial service will be held for Mr. Wood early next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (85%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



655 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Sending a Signal on Disclosure in Schwab Inquiry

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Schwab YieldPlus Fund was supposed to be safe - ''a smart alternative for your cash,'' the pitch went.
But like so many seemingly secure investments, the mutual fund plunged in value when the financial crisis struck - and the Charles Schwab Corporation is still struggling to contain the damage.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining whether Schwab misled its customers about YieldPlus, which, it turned out, was packed with riskier mortgage investments, according to a person with direct knowledge of the investigation. Federal investigators are also looking into similar funds managed by Bank of America and Citigroup, this person said. 
If this all sounds a bit familiar, that is because it is. How much banks and others did - or did not - disclose about the risks associated with certain investments has been a big issue on post-bailout Wall Street. Several other banks and investment companies have settled claims that they hoodwinked investors about certain securities or funds in the heady days before the collapse.
But unlike, say, collateralized debt obligations sold by the likes of Goldman Sachs, Schwab's YieldPlus fund was aimed not at savvy institutional investors but at individual savers. The S.E.C. is also examining certain C.D.O. sales practices at Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, but those inquiries largely involve big, sophisticated institutions.
Taken together, these cases are putting Wall Street on notice that investors must better understand the financial products they are being sold.
Federal regulators have been looking into the marketing practices of the Charles Schwab bond fund for well over a year. In October 2009, Charles Schwab acknowledged that it had received a Wells notice from the S.E.C., alerting the brokerage firm that the commission might file civil charges against the company and a senior executive.
Although S.E.C. officials declined to comment on the investigations, a recent class-action lawsuit filed against Schwab provides a glimpse at the ways Schwab promoted YieldPlus.
According to the lawsuit, filed in March 2008 in federal court in San Francisco, Charles Schwab marketed and sold the YieldPlus fund as a stable, short-term bond fund. In fact, the Charles Schwab fund invested more than 45 percent of its assets in mortgage-backed securities, the lawsuit claims. That made YieldPlus a much riskier investment than Schwab let on.
The lawsuit also claims that Schwab brokers were trained to sell the fund as a ''safe alternative to cash'' and were paid to steer their customers into it. For putting customers in YieldPlus, brokers stood to collect fees that were 10 times higher than they would have collected by steering their clients to traditional certificates of deposit, according to the lawsuit.
Charles Schwab agreed to settle claims for $235 million last spring, although the firm backed out of the deal this month. In a statement announcing that it had backed out of the deal, Schwab dismissed the allegations and said it looked forward to a ''fair and complete hearing'' in court. ''The decline of the YieldPlus fund was caused by the credit crisis and unprecedented housing collapse of 2007-2008, not by any Schwab wrongdoing,'' Schwab said. A hearing over the scuttled deal is scheduled for Thursday.
S.E.C. investigators are also examining whether sales materials for several Citigroup fixed-income hedge funds adequately disclosed the risks associated with those funds. One series, known as ASTA and MAT, invested in municipal bonds. Another, Falcon, invested in municipal bonds, bank loans and mortgage-backed securities.
But the funds relied on leverage to juice their returns, and when the markets turned against them in 2008, they were forced to shut down. Citigroup pitched its funds to wealthy investors, including some of its own executives, including Sallie L. Krawcheck, Robert E. Rubin and Stephen Volk, according to people with knowledge of the situation. Such high-net-worth individuals are considered ''sophisticated investors,'' exempting Citigroup from certain registration requirements and making it trickier for regulators to bring a case. Citigroup, which spent $250 million to cover a small portion of its clients' losses in those funds, said that it had been cooperating with the inquiry since mid-2008 but denied that it had misled its customers. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a bank spokeswoman, said customers were put on notice that the funds were more volatile than the stock market and they could lose their entire investment.
Bank of America faces similar scrutiny over the marketing of its Columbia Strategic Cash Management fund, which invested in mortgage bonds and other longer-term assets to offer institutional clients slightly higher returns than a traditional money fund. That fund also failed when the real estate market collapsed, forcing Bank of America to liquidate it.
Shirley Norton, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said that, as a matter of practice, the bank did not comment on regulatory investigations but always cooperated with them.
The S.E.C., meanwhile, has brought enforcement actions against mutual funds run by Evergreen Investments, Morgan Keegan and the State Street Corporation, as well as several of those firms' employees. So far, more than $690 million has been recovered for investors through settlements and private litigation.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into the Charles Schwab YieldPlus mutual fund described some of its investments incorrectly in some editions. The fund was heavily composed of mortgage-related securities, but only about 5 percent of its holdings were riskier subprime investments; it was not ''packed with subprime investments.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Schwab, founder and chairman of the Charles Schwab Corporation, which is being investigated about claims that it misled individual investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Trailing Its Peers: The Schwab YieldPlus fund has underperformed its peers since 2006. (Source: Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SALES TRAINING (65%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



656 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Report Looks at How China Meddled With the Internet

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
An annual report to Congress touched off a round of speculation Wednesday about the motives of a small Chinese Internet service provider that briefly rerouted as much as 15 percent of the world's Web traffic on two occasions last spring.
The report, by the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, noted that the service provider, IDC China Telecommunication, broadcast inaccurate Web traffic routes for about 18 minutes on April 8. That information was then retransmitted by China's state-owned China Telecommunications, effectively forcing data from the United States and other countries to pass through Chinese computer servers. A similar episode in March drew less attention. 
The report said the move affected data traveling over both the government and military networks of the United States, including information from the Senate, the Army, the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Air Force, the secretary of defense's office, NASA, the Department of Commerce and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, as well as from many American companies.
The incidents, which were widely reported when they occurred, were never explained, although Chinese engineering managers said that the routing errors were accidental.
The commission said it had no evidence that the misdirection was intentional. ''Evidence related to this incident does not clearly indicate whether it was perpetrated intentionally and, if so, to what ends,'' it said in the report. ''However, computer security researchers have noted that the capability could enable severe malicious activities.'' The 12-member commission was established in 2000 to submit an annual report to Congress on the national security implications of the United States' economic relationship with China.
American computer network engineers who met with Chinese technicians visiting the United States at the time said they did not believe that the Chinese had given them a full description of what had happened.
While sensitive data such as e-mails and commercial transactions are generally encrypted before being transmitted, the Chinese government holds a copy of an encryption master key, and there was speculation that China might have used it to break the encryption on some of the misdirected Internet traffic.
There was also speculation that the rerouting might have been a test of a cyberweapon that could be used to disrupt the Internet during a crisis or a war.
There has been no evidence presented to support either theory, and Chinese technical experts rejected the suggestion that the routing changes were intentional.
''The Web information flow is controlled by the U.S., while China just holds a branch line of the global traffic,'' Lu Benfu, director of the Internet Development Research Center at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, said on the Web site of Global Times, a state-run newspaper. ''So this kind of accusation is technically unfeasible.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Thursday about an annual report to Congress that raised speculation about possible meddling in the world's Web traffic by a Chinese Internet service provider last spring misstated the name of the group that issued the report. It is the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, not Revision Commission. The article also referred incorrectly to The Global Times, which quoted a top Chinese Internet researcher as saying such meddling was technically not feasible. It is a state-run English-language newspaper in China, not a Web site of the People's Daily, the newspaper of China's ruling Communist Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); EVIDENCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARMIES (76%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (75%); NAVIES (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); AIR FORCES (74%); OCEANOGRAPHY (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); NETWORK SERVERS (70%)

COMPANY: CHINA TELECOM CORP LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (56%); US NAVY (56%)

TICKER: K3ED (SGX) (57%); CHA (NYSE) (57%); 0728 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



657 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Arizona Law Said to Harm Convention Businesses

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- The scene at the Westin Kierland Resort and Spa in Scottsdale on Wednesday was a convention organizer's dream: more than 1,000 delegates, many of them top leaders in the travel industry, hobnobbing over seminars and golf. But the sold-out crowd at the PhoCusWright convention was not reflective of the challenges Arizona is facing in attracting large meetings.
The state's convention business as a whole is down $45 million this year, hurt by controversy over the state's immigration crackdown that went into effect over the summer, according to a study to be released Thursday. 
Spinoff effects bring economic losses into the hundreds of millions of dollars, according to the study, commissioned by the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy group in Washington. Potential future effects of fewer convention bookings could mean Arizona will receive an overall hit of more than $750 million, the study said.
The center, which opposes Arizona's hard-line approach to illegal immigration, hired Elliott D. Pollack & Company, a respected Arizona economic consulting firm, to estimate how much the state would be likely to lose when it comes to conventions. The purpose was to send a message to the other states considering Arizona-style immigration crackdowns.
''You can't unring the bell in Arizona, but other states looking at this need to know the consequences of going down that path,'' said Angela Maria Kelley, the center's vice president for immigration policy and advocacy. ''We wanted to take a cold, hard look at the measurable economic impacts of laws like this.''
The State Senate president, Russell Pearce, a Republican who sponsored the law to encourage illegal immigrants to leave the state, dismissed the report as a fiction and said illegal immigrants were costing the state billions.
''I get tired of this,'' he said. ''Arizona is not the bad guy. Arizona didn't make illegal illegal. We're enforcing the law.''
The study focused only on the decline in convention bookings, not on the law's effects on leisure travel, economic development or other areas. Up until now, the only estimate of how the law known as Senate Bill 1070 had affected conventions came from the Arizona Hotel and Lodging Association, which said in August that the state had lost at least 40 conventions and $15 million in lodging revenue.
That was considered a lowball estimate, which the new study says was about a third of the actual losses so far. Other effects from conventions already canceled include 2,761 lost jobs, $86.5 million in lost earnings, $253 million in lost economic output and $9.4 million in lost tax revenues, the study found.
The study estimates that the losses will only grow because large convention bookings typically occur several years in advance. The decline in business came at an awful time for Arizona's hospitality industry, which endured a devastating year in 2009, with the economic downturn and the so-called A.I.G. effect, or controversy surrounding luxury corporate retreats.
But the hotel association is cautiously optimistic that the controversy is ebbing. ''The rhetoric has started to die down and some of the boycotts have been rescinded,'' said Kristen Jarnagin, the hotel association's vice president for communications. ''We're approaching peak season, and we're beginning to hire a little bit.''
Those hurt most of all by the boycotts and canceled business, Ms. Jarnagin said, have been hotel workers, many of them Hispanic, who have been laid off during the slow times.
The United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, which represents 3,000 Hispanic-owned businesses across the country, opposed Arizona's immigration approach but did not favor a boycott because of the disproportionate effect such sanctions would have on Latinos.
''Not only are they insulted and abandoned by their state, but they could end up unemployed,'' said Javier Palomarez, the chamber's president and chief executive.
But Mr. Palomarez did not agree that Arizona's economic woes are behind it, despite the fact that a federal judge has blocked some of the law's most controversial portions. ''I don't think anybody in the Hispanic community has forgotten this,'' he said. ''We're very mindful of this legislation.''
The National Minority Supplier Development Council said it had moved its fall conference, which was expected to bring 7,000 attendees to Phoenix last month, to Miami Beach. Similarly, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc., the oldest black fraternity, relocated its July convention to Las Vegas.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with an article about a study that suggests Arizona's convention business is suffering as a result of the controversy over the state's immigration crackdown misstated the date of the Greenbuild International Conference and Expo that was held in Phoenix. The convention was there in 2009, not this week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Greenbuild International Conference and Expo was held in Phoenix this week, but the state's convention business is down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (78%); RESORTS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



658 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: For California, A New Month, A New Deficit

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Five weeks after the Legislature passed a budget that promised to close a $19 billion budget shortfall, California has sunk back into yet another fiscal crisis, this time facing a $26 billion gap that is posing a major new challenge for the incoming governor, Jerry Brown, and seems almost certain to force deep cuts in a state already reeling from three years of financial turmoil.
The departing governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, has called a special session of the Legislature for Dec. 6 to begin dealing with one part of the problem: a projected $6 billion shortfall in the $126 billion budget passed in October, a record 100 days late. Mr. Schwarzenegger's aides said the governor, a Republican who has fought repeatedly with Democrats in pushing through deep spending cuts, would propose another round of reductions to get the state through the end of this fiscal year in June.
''There's no more easy stuff to cut,'' Susan Kennedy, Mr. Schwarzenegger's chief of staff, said Monday. ''We are cutting into bone now.'' 
California's outsize budget woes always draw attention. But as the economic downturn grinds on, the state is by no means alone in looking at staggering deficits. Illinois, which has literally been having trouble paying its bills, has a deficit that could swell to $15 billion next year. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey took office this year facing a $10.7 billion gap -- more than a third of the state's projected revenues. Even Texas, which had been weathering the downturn, faces a gap that lawmakers say could top $21 billion over the next two years.
The latest California budget problems -- described by officials in both parties as calamitous -- confirm what many officials warned when the Legislature voted in October: the gap was closed, in no small part, through the use of budget gimmickry, including overly optimistic estimates of federal revenue. It has been worsened not only by the continued downturn of the economy, but also by initiatives passed by California voters in November that had the effect of increasing the revenue shortfall by $1 billion.
But even beyond the problems of the current fiscal year, state officials have predicted yet another shortfall, of $19 billion, in the budget for the next fiscal year, which Mr. Brown must propose in January.
California has a history of recovering from financial crises, riding the wave of national economic growth to fiscal health, and that is one reason state leaders frequently turn to stopgap solutions intended to push the problem up the road.
''They are always hoping that tomorrow is going to be a brighter day -- and usually it is,'' Robert Stern, director of the California-based nonpartisan Center for Governmental Studies, told a reporter. ''We're always bouncing back. We are always written off by you guys, but we always bounce back.''
Still, Mr. Stern said, ''this is the worst I've seen it.''
Indeed, historic resilience in this economically powerful state is being tested as never before in this recession, prompting concern that fundamental changes in the state's economy, combined with a tightening welter of restrictive voter initiatives on legislative decisions about spending and taxing, are thrusting California into an era of long-lasting austerity.
Mac Taylor, the head of the Legislative Analyst's Office in Sacramento, which issued the latest shortfall projections, said it would be a mistake for legislative leaders to rely on the history of past cyclical economic recovery to rescue the state from this particularly brutal downturn.
''Things are a little different this time,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''I don't think you are going to find many economists who are expecting any quick bounce back from this recession.''
This latest crisis follows three straight budgets characterized by deep cuts in aid to public education, the state university system and social welfare programs, as well as repeated worker furloughs as California has tried, in vain, to find its balance.
The options on the revenue side of the ledger are constrained by a California voter initiative that requires a two-thirds vote by the Legislature to raise taxes; that two-thirds requirement was extended to fees in another initiative passed this November. To compound things, Mr. Brown, a Democrat, pledged in the campaign not to raise any taxes without voter approval.
Sterling Clifford, Mr. Brown's spokesman, said: ''Jerry has met with the legislative leadership and state finance officials. He and his staff have begun working on the budget, and it will be his priority throughout the transition period.''
Leaders of the Legislature, which is controlled by Democrats, made clear they were wary of Mr. Schwarzenegger's promised budget proposals and suggested they were skeptical that much would come out of the special session. In any event, the bulk of the problem is falling to Mr. Brown.
''We will look at what Governor Schwarzenegger proposes,'' Senator Darrell Steinberg, the president pro tem of the Senate, said in an interview, adding that he would be inclined to move on to Mr. Brown ''if it's the same-old same-old -- the elimination of the services for the most needy.''
Speaker John A. Perez noted that Mr. Schwarzenegger had removed from the table any discussion of raising revenues. ''It's always difficult to go into conversations like this when you create a series of preconditions the way the governor has expressed,'' Mr. Perez said.
If this budget crisis is posing a major problem for Mr. Brown, it also seems likely to help define the legacy of Mr. Schwarzenegger. He came into office pledging to clean up Sacramento and rein in what he described as budgetary excesses, and he will now be graded, at least in part, for leaving his successor a huge budget deficit.
''That is how he is being judged; it is not fair, but it is what it is,'' Ms. Kennedy said. ''He gets credit for the good times, and he is going to get slammed for handing off a deficit. I'm telling you, no one could have done better, no one could have done any different. Any governor would have been handing over a deficit, given the national recession.''
Mr. Steinberg said that given all the restrictions the state faced, the best course of action would be a realignment of state services in a way that would require local governments -- which might have more flexibility to raise some taxes -- to provide them. He said he thought Mr. Brown would be more receptive to that kind of revamping than Mr. Schwarzenegger.
''I think the notion of trying to raise state taxes to continue to prop up this system is a dead end,'' Mr. Steinberg said, adding, ''Unless we get the miracle of an economic recovery faster than anyone expects, we have to be bold.''
California has, over the last three years, become accustomed to regular rounds of bad economic news. In this case, however, the level of despair is striking. And fresh problems just keep arriving. A lawsuit to prevent the sale and leaseback of some state buildings that was filed Tuesday, for instance, held up an important note sale the following day and threatened to add yet another billion-dollar load of debt to the state budget.
''What the new governor would be loath to admit is that California's fate depends on circumstances beyond his control,'' said John J. Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College. ''If there is a robust national economy, that would go a long way toward easing our problems. But the state of the national economy is not under Sacramento's control.''
Still, California's fiscal problems are hardly new, meaning lawmakers may be running out of tricks to get them through the year.
''It's been a while since they had actual balance,'' Professor Pitney said of California. ''If this were a private sector company, the governor and the Legislature would have gone to prison a long time ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov.-elect Jerry Brown of California will have to address a new deficit in the first state budget he presents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (78%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



659 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: For the President, Some Fighting Tips

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The World as He Finds It'' (column, Nov. 15):
Paul Krugman has summarized what I and a lot of other Democrats have been feeling about President Obama. After all the big disappointments -- inadequate stimulus, Republican-style health care reform, wimpy Wall Street regulation -- I have tried hard not to blame Mr. Obama, feeling that there must be pressures that he could not overcome.
But the tax cuts for the wealthy will finally show the true story. This issue is an absolute no-excuse, no-brainer for Democrats; Mr. Obama can simply veto any extension for the wealthy. 
He has the power, and he has the economic arguments. If the Republicans block an extension for 98 percent of the population, Democrats will have a powerful issue with which to blast them for years to come.
If he caves in once more and allows the tax cuts for the wealthy to be extended, even temporarily, I will give up. After 50 years of voting Democratic in every national election, I will just stay home in 2012.
If the country is going to deteriorate as a result of bad government policy, I would rather let the Republicans take the whole blame and look for another Democratic leader, one with enough backbone to defend important principles.
Patrick Cassidy Plainfield, N.J., Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman will have a long wait for President Obama to stand up and fight on any issue, domestic or foreign, that confronts him.
Mr. Obama's campaign vow to rise above partisanship was much more than mere talk; he seeks to rise above all conflict and become the person who reconciles the divided parties: the Israelis and the Palestinians, the Pakistanis and the Indians, as well as the Democrats and the Republicans closer to home.
It is my serious concern that the president, far from being either aloof or humble, has all along thought of himself not as a political leader struggling to make his point of view prevail, but as a man of peace, with an almost divine mission.
This 75-year-old liberal finds the possibility that President Obama may not be in office after the next election surprisingly painless. I find it entirely just that when a man is too good to fight, he should lose.
Carl Schiffman Middle Village, Queens, Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
Perhaps President Obama could benefit from becoming familiar with the recommendations for raising children and adolescents successfully. Neither authoritarian nor democratic and permissive styles of parenting are optimal ways to raise children. Rather, a third way, authoritative parenting -- in which the perspective of the child is understood but the parents' opinions and choices prevail -- has been to shown to lead to successful developmental outcomes and healthy children.
Perhaps it is time for the president to learn how to be the authoritative leader that this country craves and spare the American people the chaos that so often results from democratic, permissive parenting, which may well have led to the loss of faith in his leadership that Paul Krugman laments.
Aviva Bock Newton, Mass., Nov. 15, 2010
The writer is a psychotherapist.
To the Editor:
For the longest time I have been frustrated by the lack of leadership from the White House. President Obama was elected to be the voice of change. What he has failed to see is that change is not effected by hope and rhetoric, but by well-defined and unswerving leadership.
Say what you will about the years preceding Mr. Obama's presidency, but President George W. Bush declared himself to be ''the decider'' and acted decisively -- if mostly wrongly.
President Obama's quest for civil discourse might do well in the halls of academia, but not in the world of politics. Lobbyists continue to run wild. The health care bill was watered down because the president let others define it. He dithered for months over Afghanistan.
Now he is taking a conciliatory stance regarding the Bush tax cuts to appease the new majority that never worked with him and will do everything to stymie all of his initiatives.
Mr. President, you were elected to change the Washington status quo and lead us forward. Please do both.
Richard M. Frauenglass Huntington, N.Y., Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman's assertion that President Obama's intellect does not play well in the sordid world of politics brings back a memory of my undergraduate days at Occidental College. As young idealists in postwar America, we dreamed of being ruled by a philosopher-king.
One day a visiting academic, Dexter Perkins, descended on the campus. Speaking about the American presidency at an informal gathering of history majors, Mr. Perkins intoned the words: ''Scholars should be on tap, but not on top.'' With Franklin D. Roosevelt in mind, he argued that resolve and wit trump sheer intellectual prowess in high places. Our idealism got its first dose of realism.
I'm unable to get Mr. Perkins's dictum out of my head when I think about the perils we face as a nation.
Richard Crouter Northfield, Minn., Nov. 15, 2010
The writer is the author of ''Reinhold Niebuhr: On Politics, Religion and Christian Faith.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PARENTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VETO (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); TAX LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL KRUGMAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



660 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Murkowski Is Winner Of Alaska Senate Race

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY; Juliet Macur contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
ANCHORAGE -- Senator Lisa Murkowski won a historic victory on Wednesday in her long-shot run for re-election as a write-in candidate.
By Wednesday afternoon, 15 days after the midterm elections, it was clear from a count of write-in ballots in Juneau, the state capital, that Ms. Murkowski had enough of a lead over her opponent, Joe Miller, that Mr. Miller would not be able to catch up. The Democrat, Scott T. McAdams, trailed far behind.
Ms. Murkowski flew to Alaska from Washington to declare victory, taking the stage at a union hall here to chants of ''We made history! We made history!'' 
''We did,'' she said. ''We made history. And doesn't it just feel, wow, still a little bit mind-boggling?''
Mr. Miller, a Tea Party favorite, was backed by former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, and, after Mr. Miller upset Ms. Murkowski in the Republican primary, the national Republican establishment. His support for states' rights and tax and spending cuts resonated in this conservative state, but he committed a series of mistakes during the general election campaign.
At the same time, Ms. Murkowski showed new vigor after she announced her return to the race as a write-in on Sept. 17. She also showed a sharp sense of the state's distinct relationship with the federal government. About a third of the Alaska economy depends on federal spending.
''Alaskans have chosen the path of unity, the deliberative path, the common-sense path,'' Ms. Murkowski told her supporters on Wednesday.
She invited Lily Stevens, daughter of her mentor, the late Senator Ted Stevens, to come onto the stage. ''His motto was: 'To hell with politics. Let's just do what's right for Alaska,' '' Ms. Murkowski said. ''And that's what we did.''
Mr. Miller did not immediately concede. In an interview with Fox News, he said he was feeling less optimistic than he had been, but also declared, ''It's never over until the count is done.''
His campaign suggested this week it would pursue a recount of all the ballots cast.
But on Wednesday, Randy Ruedrich, the chairman of the Alaska Republican Party, which had been supporting Mr. Miller, called on him to concede. ''This was a free and fair election,'' Mr. Ruedrich said in a statement. ''It is now time to look forward.''
Ms. Murkowski is the first write-in candidate elected to the Senate since Strom Thurmond of South Carolina in 1954.
Election workers counted more than 100,000 write-in votes in Juneau over the last week, and it became clear early that Ms. Murkowski was likely to win. More than 97 percent of the votes were for her, officials said. On Wednesday, she led Mr. Miller by more than 10,000 votes with less than a thousand ballots left to count.
Throughout the write-in count, the Miller campaign aggressively challenged ballots, questioning any that seemed to have a misspelling, a smudge or extra words written on them. The campaign filed a federal lawsuit arguing that write-in votes that are not spelled correctly should be excluded; that case is pending.
So far, only 8,153 ballots have been challenged, meaning Ms. Murkowski would still lead by more than 2,000 votes even in the unlikely event that all the challenged ballots were set aside by the courts.
The Miller campaign had said it would not contest the results if there were not enough challenged ballots to change the outcome, but it has continued to raise money for a legal fund. Ms. Palin, a longtime rival of Ms. Murkowski, contributed to the fund through her political action committee; so has Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina.
A memento of Ms. Murkowski's bid for re-election -- which depended on her ability to cultivate support among groups that included labor unions and libertarians, and on a novel voter education campaign about how to fill in a write-in ballot and how to spell her name -- remains in the freshly repaired sidewalks outside her town house in Washington. Before the concrete set, someone etched into it her write-in campaign slogan: ''Fill it in. Write it in. Lisa Murkowski.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:Senator Lisa Murkowski after arriving at the airport in Anchorage on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DINNEEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Alaska's Senate Race 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (95%); ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (73%); TED STEVENS (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (93%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (93%) ALASKA, USA (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



661 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: A Second Group of Experts Calls for Cutting Military Programs to Lower U.S. Debt

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
A bipartisan group of budget experts called Wednesday for steep cuts in future military spending, just as leaders of a presidential debt-reduction commission proposed last week.
Taken together, the reports are likely to intensify pressure to reduce Pentagon spending and cancel troubled weapons programs as part of a broad effort to reduce federal budget deficits.
But the proposals, which would cut back on expensive planes like the F-35 fighter and the V-22 Osprey, represent only the start of what could be a long debate. And it is already clear that many of the suggestions will be hotly disputed in Congress. 
The plan released Wednesday included a five-year freeze on Pentagon spending, along with sweeping changes in taxes and other federal programs, to reduce projected deficits by $5.9 trillion through 2020. It was prepared by a group led by former Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, who was the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee for more than a quarter-century, and Alice M. Rivlin, who served both Congress and then-President Bill Clinton as a budget director.
Their proposal would freeze the Pentagon's spending, which tops $700 billion a year, at this year's levels from fiscal 2012 through 2016.
That would mean the Pentagon budget would not even be adjusted for inflation, and the military would lose $431 billion in additional spending that the Congressional Budget Office had projected it would receive during that period.
And even if annual inflation adjustments were restored in 2017, the Pentagon would still lose $1.1 trillion in cumulative spending by 2020.
''Would this be easy? No,'' said Gordon Adams, a professor at American University who led a team that prepared the group's recommendations on military spending.
But given that the Pentagon accounts for more than half of the government's discretionary spending, ''We think it's a reasonable plan,'' he said.
Last week, the leaders of a commission created by President Obama proposed cuts in weapons systems and other expenditures that could add up to $100 billion by 2015.
Those cuts were part of a larger package of spending reductions and tax increases proposed by the panel's chairmen, Erskine B. Bowles, who was White House chief of staff under President Clinton, and Alan K. Simpson, a former Republican Senate leader.
The recommendations from both groups have come after nearly a decade of rapid increases in military spending, and they are setting up the first serious debate since the terrorist attacks of 2001 about the size and cost of the armed services.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has sought to get ahead of the budget-cutting demands by showing that he can squeeze more efficiency from the Pentagon's bureaucracy.
He has called for the Pentagon's budget to keep growing at 1 percent a year after inflation, plus the costs of the war in Afghanistan.
He is also pushing for 2 or 3 percent in annual savings in the department's contracting practices. He wants to use the money for other military needs. But both of the debt-reduction reports said any such savings should be used to lower the federal deficits.
Speaking at a conference sponsored by The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, Mr. Gates said that the presidential commission's proposal to slash the military budget was ''math, not strategy.''
''If you cut the defense budget by 10 percent, which would be catastrophic in terms of force structure, that's $55 billion out of a $1.4 trillion deficit,'' Mr. Gates said. ''We are not the problem.''
Mr. Adams said his group believed that the Pentagon could reduce the number of uniformed personnel by 275,000 as the Afghanistan war wound down.
The group also recommended canceling all three versions of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
At a projected cost of $382 billion for 2,457 planes, the F-35, made by Lockheed Martin, is the Pentagon's most expensive program.
Last week, the president's commission suggested canceling the most complex version of the plane, which can take off almost vertically, while reducing purchases of the conventional and aircraft-carrier variants.
Both panels also recommended canceling the V-22, a combination of a winged plane and a helicopter, and the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, an amphibious assault craft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROBERT M GATES (52%); ERSKINE BOWLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



662 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Reid to Push to Allow End Of 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell'

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a direct challenge to Republicans who support the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy barring gay men and lesbians from serving openly in the armed forces, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said he would push ahead with a military policy bill that includes language authorizing the Pentagon to repeal the ban.
Senator John McCain of Arizona, the senior Republican on the Armed Services Committee, led his colleagues in blocking consideration of the bill in September in part because it allowed the repeal of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy. Mr. McCain has not changed his position, and Democrats had been considering stripping the provision to advance the legislation. 
But the White House on Wednesday repeated President Obama's commitment to repealing the ban. In a statement later in the day, Mr. Reid said he would bring the bill to the floor, with the repeal language in place. ''We need to repeal this discriminatory policy so that any American who wants to defend our country can do so,'' Mr. Reid said.
Senate Democratic aides said Mr. Reid would try to take up the bill sometime in December, meaning after the Pentagon is due to release a report on how it would carry out a repeal. The report includes a survey of active-duty forces and their families, which shows that a majority do not care if gay men and women serve openly.
That report is due on Dec. 1.
Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, applauded Mr. Reid's decision and said he would fight for approval of the bill.
In a statement, Mr. Levin said that he would hold hearings on the Pentagon report as soon as it was released and that he had asked Mr. Reid to wait until they were completed before trying to begin debate.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has said he would like to see the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy repealed before the end of the year, but some senior military commanders and some lawmakers in Congress have expressed opposition to ending the policy.
Senator McCain's wife, Cindy, called last week for ending the policy, appearing in a video for an advertising campaign aimed at preventing the bullying of gay teenagers. But then she abruptly reversed herself and said she agreed with her husband.
The House has already approved legislation authorizing repeal, and Mr. Reid's decision indicated that Democrats, despite heavy losses in the midterm elections, were not backing down from some top legislative priorities, important to the party's base.
On Wednesday Mr. Reid announced that he would also push to bring up a bill that would create a path to citizenship for certain illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as small children.
Mr. Reid tried to attach the legislation as an amendment to the military policy bill before the midterm elections, but Republicans blocked the bill, in part because they said that he was using it as a political prop to appeal to Hispanic and gay voters in his re-election campaign in Nevada.
In his race, Mr. Reid promised he would try again to pass the immigration measure, known as the Dream Act. And in a statement on Wednesday he said he would try to do so as a stand-alone bill.
The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, has been discussing the immigration measure with Democratic colleagues but has not scheduled a vote on it, a spokesman said.
The legislation would give legal residency to immigrants who arrived in the United States before age 16 and lived here for at least five years, graduated from high school and completed two years of college or military service. They would be subject to background checks, could not have criminal records, and even if successful would still not be eligible for financial aid like Pell grants.
In a statement, Mr. Reid said: ''If there is a bipartisan bill that makes sense for our country economically, from a national security perspective and one that reflects American values, it is the Dream Act. This bill will give children brought illegally to this country at no fault of their own the chance to earn legal status.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); CINDY MCCAIN (75%); CARL LEVIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROBERT M GATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



663 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
international
CLINTON'S SENATE LINKS
May Aid Treaty
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visited the Capitol on a mission to save one of President Obama's few foreign policy victories: an arms-control treaty with Russia suddenly jeopardized by the refusal of a single Republican to allow a vote on the pact in the Senate this year. It is a role she expects to play frequently in coming months, as the White House girds for a more hostile Congress bent on challenging the Obama administration's foreign policy agenda. PAGE A8 
National
F.D.A. ISSUES WARNING
On Alcoholic Energy Drinks
The Food and Drug Administration cracked down Wednesday on four manufacturers of caffeinated alcoholic drinks, giving them 15 days to stop adding caffeine to the products or stop selling them altogether. PAGE A24
New York
SCHOOLS CHANCELLOR PICK
Begins Calling Her Skeptics
Over the last few days, Cathleen P. Black, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's choice for schools chancellor, has been furiously dialing members of New York's political class to simultaneously introduce herself and beat back mounting skepticism about her qualifications. PAGE A27
Business
IN EURO ZONE, SOME SEE
Risk of Currency Breakup
Even as British officials and other Europeans bear down on a resolution to Ireland's debt crisis, there is a lingering unease in the markets about whether one or more countries might eventually bolt the currency union. PAGE B1
RESHAPING FORECLOSURE
Ever since law enforcement officials from all 50 states signed on last month to a high-profile investigation of big mortgage lenders, there has been a public tug of war. The banks have played down the investigation and want to see it end as quickly as possible. The state attorneys general, however, say that there is an opportunity to fundamentally change the way banks deal with defaulting borrowers. PAGE B1
Chrysler Lags Ford and G.M. B1
sports
FIFA REPORT FINDS FAULT
With World Cup Bids
FIFA, soccer's world governing body, has released details of a report that finds fault with both the American and the Middle Eastern bids to host the 2022 World Cup. Technical advisers for FIFA said the bid by the United States needed stronger guarantees of federal government support and that the heat in the Qatari desert posed a health risk to players and spectators. PAGE B21
arts
HISTORIAN TO DIRECT
Research Center in Harlem
Khalil Gibran Muhammad, a history professor at Indiana University, has been named the new director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, a research library in Harlem that is within the New York Public Library system. He will succeed Howard Dodson Jr., who is retiring. PAGE C1
home
RETHINKING POST-DIVORCE
Living Arrangements
In an attempt to balance the new, many-tentacled thing called ''a family'' created after amicable divorces and remarriage, stepfamilies are rethinking post-divorce living arrangements in hopes of ensuring the well-being of both children and adults. PAGE D1
thursday styles
FASHION SHOPPING SITE FROM GOOGLE MAKES ITS DEBUT
In a deliberate collision between nerds and fashion mavens, Google has created a new e-commerce site that significantly improves how fashion is presented and sold online. The site, Boutiques.com, may also change how people shop for clothes with its many capabilities and components. PAGE E1
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A31
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SOCCER (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (85%); SPORTS (85%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (75%); ENERGY DRINKS (75%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MAYORS (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); EURO ZONE (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MFG (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); HISTORY (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); EURO CRISIS (66%); CURRENCIES (66%); DEBT CRISIS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (63%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (62%); LIBRARIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); CATHLEEN BLACK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); QATAR (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



664 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRIB SHEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: The 10 Things to Talk About This Weekend

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD

 BODY:
1. Wills and Kate. The Chelsea Clinton nuptials will seem Mennonite by comparison.
2. Charles Rangel walks out of own ethics proceedings saying he can't afford lawyer. The Rent Is Too Damn High, Congressional Hearings Edition. 
3. The Roman Catholic Church holds emergency two-day meeting to teach clerics how to give exorcisms ... one week before new Harry Potter movie opens.
4. Cindy McCain appears in an ''It Gets Better'' ad then supports her husband's stance on Don't Ask, Don't Tell. Cindy: always open to new ideas.
5. Gwyneth's exhausting flawlessness at all human endeavor. The choice of country music is clearly an effort to connote warmth.
6. Perfectly cast: Carey Mulligan as Daisy Buchanan. Ironically named: Carnival Splendor.
7. Swinger sex parties in New York are down 20 to 60 percent because of economy. It's a sad day when fishbowls are actually filled with fish.
8. Laura Hillenbrand, the author of books about fast-movers Seabiscuit and the Olympic runner Louie Zamperini, has chronic fatigue syndrome. And now it turns out that Ernest Hemingway was afraid of open water.
9. New dieting app counts calories from a photo of what you're about to eat. And then screams ''Noooooooooo ...''
10. Another compelling reason to poison your relatives to death over the holidays: no inheritance taxes before Dec. 31!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); WRITERS (67%); DIETING (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); COUNTRY MUSIC (54%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (52%); ESTATE TAX (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (73%); CINDY MCCAIN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



665 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: In Unusual Move, Fed Bolsters Its Defense of Its Plan

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve, faced with more criticism than its leaders anticipated, stepped up its counteroffensive on Wednesday as leading Republican lawmakers continued to attack its plan to spur the recovery.
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, met with 11 members of the Senate banking committee to explain the decision to inject $600 billion into the banking system, a resumption of the Fed's bond-buying program aimed at lowering long-term interest rates.
In a speech on Wednesday, Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and one of the biggest advocates of the Fed's decision, said the plan could reduce the unemployment rate by a little less than half a percentage point by the end of 2012. ''This would translate into more than 700,000 additional jobs that we would not have had in the absence of this monetary policy action,'' he said. 
On Friday in Frankfurt, Mr. Bernanke intends to respond to international criticism of the Fed's decision, which has come from officials in Europe, and in China and other emerging markets.
Those actions, along with rare on-the-record interviews this week by William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, and Janet L. Yellen, the central bank's vice chairwoman, add up to an unusual and orchestrated attempt by the Fed to cast its decision in the most favorable terms and respond to a maelstrom of criticism -- some partisan, some not -- that has taken it by surprise.
Those objections persisted on Wednesday.
In a letter to Mr. Bernanke, four Congressional Republican leaders expressed ''deep concerns'' about the Fed's plan, known as quantitative easing.
''While intended to improve the short-term growth of the U.S. economy and help maintain a stable price level, such a measure introduces significant uncertainty regarding the future strength of the dollar, and could result both in hard-to-control, long-term inflation and potentially generate artificial asset bubbles that could cause further economic disruptions,'' the letter said.
The Republicans who signed the letter were the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky; Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona; Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, who is in line to become the House speaker in January; and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican. They emphasized that the Fed should be insulated from political pressure but also said the central bank ''should be open to receiving input and data from a wide range of sources.''
However, the letter was more moderate in tone than recent complaints voiced by other Republican critics, like Representatives Mike Pence of Indiana, the chairman of the House Republican Conference, and Kevin Brady of Texas, who is in line to lead a subcommittee on trade.
By contrast, in the Fed's corner on Wednesday was Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, which poured money into the midterm campaigns to defeat Democrats.
''The Fed has over many, many, many years been particularly helpful to this government and to this country in dealing with financial crises, and by the way, they always make money on it,'' Mr. Donohue told reporters, referring to the fact that the Fed each year turns over to the government the profit it makes as a byproduct of its investments. ''We're hopeful that the Fed's judgments turn out to be very positive for job creation and economic expansion.''
Mr. Donohue suggested that some of the criticism of Mr. Bernanke had gone too far, praising Mr. Bernanke as a scholar of the Depression and saying, ''We must maintain the independence of the Fed and be very, very careful not to louse that up on Capitol Hill.''
As for the senators who met with Mr. Bernanke on Wednesday, the Fed seemed to score some sympathy from skeptics, if not outright support.
''I thought he made good points,'' Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican, said afterward. ''I still am not necessarily fully signed on to the process, but that's why we have an independent Fed that's supposed to make these calls. He made a very strong case for what they've done.'' Mr. Gregg said he still had reservations, adding ''once you start printing money, it's pretty hard to control.''
Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, said Mr. Bernanke mentioned the potential for quantitative easing to help create jobs.
''He said he was absolutely committed to keeping inflation in check and that all indicators showed that it was benign,'' Mr. Bayh said. ''He also indicated that as they go forward, they were looking at a variety of data to see if there are any unanticipated adverse consequences of their actions and that if there were any, they would adjust what they were doing.''
Mr. Gregg and Mr. Bayh, who did not seek re-election this year, said in separate interviews that the Fed and monetary policy were carrying the burden because of failures in fiscal policy, though they disagreed on what those failures were. Mr. Bayh cited gridlock in Congress over short-term measures to stimulate the economy. Mr. Gregg said the Fed was acting because of the failure to get spending and deficits under control and reassure the markets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Boston Fed, said the bond plan would reduce unemployment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); BEN BERNANKE (78%); KEVIN BRADY (58%); JON KYL (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



666 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Massey, Troubled and Desired, Weighs Takeover Bids

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Michael de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Massey Energy is officially in play.
Massey's blunt-speaking chief executive, Don L. Blankenship, acknowledged for the first time on Wednesday that the board of the coal-mining company is seriously considering takeover bids.
Massey has been battered since an explosion last April at its Upper Big Branch mine in West Virginia killed 29 miners, the deadliest American coal mine accident in 40 years. Stiffening regulatory oversight has reduced Massey's production and increased its expenses, and the Virginia-based company is facing investigations into the accident and other Massey operations.
On a broader industry level, regulators are giving more scrutiny to mountaintop coal mines, and coal is losing some ground to natural gas in the nation's production of electricity. Reports of interest from possible acquirers have been swirling for more than a month, driving up Massey's share price by more than 25 percent. 
Alpha Natural Resources has already made a bid for the company, according to one person with direct knowledge of the talks who was not authorized to speak publicly. ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steel company, and Arch Coal have also expressed interest.
If Massey's board decides not to sell the whole company, several large Indian coal companies, including Coal India, are believed to be interested in buying mining assets, according to investment bankers who follow the coal industry. Selling assets would help Massey, currently the sixth-largest American coal producer, meet its liabilities while remaining independent.
At an investor conference in New York on Wednesday, Mr. Blankenship responded to a question about the possible sale of the company by saying that he could not say much. ''But I think you can plan on it being fully vetted and looked at very thoroughly,'' he said.
He said the board, which is holding its annual strategy review next week, would be looking at any takeover offer as ''a possibility, if you will -- a bigger possibility -- as part of liberating our shareholder value.''
Mr. Blankenship's remarks lifted the price of Massey's shares, which finished the day at $47.41, up 2.66 percent.
One executive of a company that has been mentioned as a possible buyer said that Massey appeared to be trying to stir up interest among potential acquirers. The executive insisted on remaining anonymous during negotiations.
Since the April explosion, Massey has spent about $150 million in related expenses and faced a succession of challenges.
In the last quarter, it reported a loss of $41.4 million, in part because its coal production was substantially down as a result of increased regulatory oversight of its operations. Two weeks ago, the Labor Department filed a lawsuit to close one of Massey's Kentucky mines until a subsidiary addressed various violations.
Massey has $1.3 billion in long-term debt and is low on cash, partly because of recent acquisitions.
While the company's directors have told investment bankers that they are open to a buyout, bankers said they believed Mr. Blankenship had been opposed to a sale. Wednesday's remarks may signal a softening of his position.
''Given the regulatory pressure on Massey, it's going to be hard for them to regain composure, make a profit and pay off their debt,'' said Justin Molavi, an energy analyst at IBISWorld, a market research firm.
Massey would be an attractive acquisition because it has the largest reserves of metallurgical coal, used in making steel, of any United States mining company.
The economic expansion of developing countries in Asia and South America has been tightening world supplies of metallurgical coal, also known as coking coal, and driving up prices. Only four countries export metallurgical coal, and of those, only the United States has the port and rail infrastructure to expand exports substantially over the next several years.
Investment bankers who are watching the maneuvering say Alpha Natural Resources and ArcelorMittal have the greatest likelihood of taking over Massey.
Arcelor could use Massey's metallurgical coal mines as a reserve that would be especially useful in the event of crises or natural disasters in other producing countries.
Arcelor already operates some coal mines in Siberia and elsewhere.
But David M. Khani, director of research at FBR Capital Markets, expressed doubts that Arcelor would be up to the task of mining in Central Appalachia, where getting permits for mountaintop mining has become increasingly difficult.
Alpha Natural Resources, on the other hand, already mines in the region. If Massey and Alpha were to combine, they would become the third-largest producer of metallurgical coal in the world after BHP Billiton and Teck Resources of Canada.
Michael J. Quillen, chairman of Alpha Natural Resources, did not return repeated telephone calls and e-mail messages seeking comment. Giles Read, an Arcelor spokesman, said, ''We don't comment on market speculation.''
Coal industry specialists said that if Massey were sold, the buyer would probably have an easier time with regulators, and that any acquirer would benefit from the fact that before the accident, Massey was the lowest-cost major operator in Central Appalachia.
But a buyer might also inherit growing litigation costs from the Upper Big Branch accident.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (94%); COAL INDUSTRY (91%); MINES & MINING (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); MINE WORKERS (77%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); LITIGATION (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (92%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (90%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (69%); ARCH COAL INC (55%)

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (92%); ANR (NYSE) (90%); MTS (MCE) (69%); MT (PAR) (69%); MT (NYSE) (69%); MT (AMS) (69%); ACI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%)

PERSON: DON L BLANKENSHIP (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



667 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Fall Delinquent In Paying Mortgages

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Even as the fight over foreclosures continues, the high tide of delinquency among homeowners has begun to recede.
Households that are behind in their mortgage payments fell during the third quarter to 13.52 percent, from 14.42 percent in the second quarter, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported on Thursday.
It was the lowest delinquency rate since the beginning of 2009, just as the financial crisis began hitting home. The new data come amid stepped-up scrutiny of foreclosures by state and federal authorities, prompted by revelations that the banks have been pursuing them in ways that could violate the law. 
Delinquencies during the summer months declined for two reasons. Bankers reduced the pool of the seriously delinquent by offering loan modifications to some and evicting others. Seriously delinquent mortgages -- those that are three months overdue or more -- fell during the third quarter to 8.70 percent of all loans, from 9.11 percent in the second quarter, the bankers' group said.
An economy that stopped deteriorating also had a positive effect. The percentage of borrowers that missed their first mortgage payment dropped in the third quarter, both from the second quarter and from the third quarter of 2009.
Just as the third quarter was ending in September, however, an uproar over foreclosure documentation began. Under pressure, several lenders suspended foreclosures so they could review their procedures.
Until those reviews are completed, analysts said, the number of households in the latter stages of delinquency is likely to swell again, meaning it is too early to know whether the third-quarter data signals a longer-term trend.
The report ''is clearly good news, but perhaps we should wait'' another quarter before concluding that the delinquency decline is permanent, said Jennifer H. Lee of BMO Capital Markets.
Lender Processing Services, a mortgage data company, also suggested caution in a separate report this week, saying the number of properties in delinquency and the number in foreclosure edged up in October from September.
Even with the third-quarter drop, delinquencies and foreclosures are above normal. They are closely tied to the employment situation, which is no longer worsening but not getting much better, either.
The delinquency survey on Thursday came out during a second day of Congressional hearings this week on foreclosures, with five major banks testifying. The banks tried to emphasize they were changing their ways, statements that were met with some skepticism.
''There is significant evidence to suggest that the speed-driven, corner-cutting operations endemic in the mortgage servicing industry have produced systemic and damaging consequences for the nation's homeowners and for our housing and financial markets,'' said Representative Maxine Waters, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity.
Elizabeth A. Duke, a Federal Reserve Board governor, said in her testimony that the central bank expected about 2.25 million foreclosure filings this year and in 2011, and two million more in 2012.
''They will remain extremely high by historical standards,'' Ms. Duke said in her prepared testimony. In 2006, before the collapse, there were about one million foreclosures a year.
It is evident from the third-quarter data that foreclosures are no longer being caused by bad loans, which was the case for much of the recession. Now most foreclosures occur with prime loans, which are harder for banks to modify than subprime.
Prime fixed-rate loans, the safest kind of loans, represented 36 percent of all new foreclosures in the third quarter, up from 30 percent in the third quarter of 2009. Meanwhile, the percentage of new foreclosures generated by the worst kind of loans, adjustable subprime, fell sharply.
The Treasury Department also released its most recent loan modification figures on Thursday, showing that only 24,000 households had gotten permanent new loans during October. It was the lowest number since the government's Making Home Affordable Program was getting started last year.
About 483,000 homeowners have gotten permanent new loans through the program; 719,000 enrolled in a trial but were either foreclosed or got a modification without government oversight.
Bank of America said that it modified 25,000 loans in October, up from 16,500 in September. Relatively few were done through the government program.
Michael Fratantoni, vice president of research for the mortgage bankers, said, ''The modification effort has certainly benefited a number of homeowners.'' But he noted that the re-default rate of modified loans can be as high as 50 percent after the first year, another reason foreclosures are unlikely to decline significantly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ginneh Smith, holding her month-old son, met with a bank home loan negotiator in Los Angeles in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EVICTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%)

COMPANY: LENDER PROCESSING SERVICES INC (58%)

TICKER: LPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: MAXINE WATERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



668 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Over

 BODY:
The recession that began in late 2007 ended officially in June 2009, but much of the country is still suffering.
The Times's Sabrina Tavernise recently reported on new Census data showing that in 2010, the number of children living with a grandparent rose sharply for the second year in a row, to 7.5 million. That is 10 percent of children under 18, up from about 8 percent from the years before the recession. 
Experts attribute the increase to out-of-work parents needing help. But it is also a sign of families fracturing under economic stress. More than a fifth of children living with a grandparent did not have a parent living in the house. The pain and costs aren't temporary. Long-term parental unemployment profoundly affects children, even lowering their lifelong earnings potential.
Children aren't the only ones suffering. Even without additional caretaking duties, many senior citizens have been hit hard by the downturn and rising unemployment. One sign of that is the jump in the number of people who resort to early Social Security retirement benefits after they lose a job and cannot find another.
The Urban Institute has found that in 2009, even after controlling for population growth, roughly 150,000 more men and 90,000 more women took early Social Security benefits than would have been expected based on historical rates.
Taking benefits early helps beneficiaries in the near term, but it also means they will receive smaller benefit checks for the rest of their lives. Together with losses on investments and near-zero interest rates on savings, smaller benefits increase the chances that they won't have enough to support themselves in advanced old age.
The recession's fallout doesn't even stop there. A slack labor market deprives high school and college graduates of early work experience on which careers -- and earnings potential -- are built. It also limits the upward mobility, and lifetime earnings, of current workers. Foreclosures wreck the credit of borrowers for many years; some defaulted borrowers will never re-establish credit. Tight lending puts some otherwise viable small businesses out of business.
As the lame-duck Congress debates whether to extend expiring unemployment benefits, these problems show again why Washington needs to do more to strengthen the safety net and create jobs. The recession may be over, but it is not going away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); CENSUS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); AGING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); FORECLOSURE (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%); POLITICAL DEBATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



669 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Weekness and Endurance

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Just over a week ago, Newsweek announced that it is going to merge with the online magazine The Daily Beast. Since then, cyberspace has echoed with pessimistic commentary about the future of this new entity. After all, why should anyone think that two money-losing organizations will start making money simply because they have banded together?
It's a fair question, but I wouldn't be so gloomy. The pessimists are underestimating how much American culture is changing right now and how these changes will open up fresh opportunities for Newsweek and old-line general-interest print magazines like it. These magazines didn't thrive for so many decades for no reason. They tapped into a deep strain in American culture. 
If you want to get highfalutin about it, this strain started in the 19th century when Ralph Waldo Emerson and other lesser lights offered audiences recipes for self-improvement. The man and woman of character, they said, must possess a well-furnished mind. You may be a salesman or a farmer or a housewife, but you have a responsibility to be familiar with the best that has been thought and said.
To be respectable, it is necessary to spend your leisure time sampling the great masterworks of culture. To fight off the grubby materialism of American culture, it is necessary to be conversant in philosophy, theology and the great political events of the wider world.
This ethos shaped the American news media for more than a century. Poor families scratched together their dollars to buy an encyclopedia, to join the Book of the Month Club, to buy Will and Ariel Durant's ''Civilization'' series or the Robert Maynard Hutchins's Great Books.
Magazines like Harper's, Saturday Review, Time and Newsweek arose to satisfy this tide of cultural aspiration. For decades, Time and Newsweek devoted more space to opera and art and theology than to Hollywood or health. You may never have visited New York City, but to be a respectable figure in your town in Wisconsin or Arizona, it was helpful to know what operas were playing or what people were reading in Paris. The magazines supplied this knowledge.
These magazines also inflamed a million imaginations. Smart boys and girls got a glimpse of a wider world. The implication was that their current lives were insufficient, but they could read about John Foster Dulles or Georgia O'Keeffe and gain access to a higher realm that they might someday join.
About a generation ago, this earnest self-improvement ethic came under attack. People no longer believed that there was such a thing as a common culture that all educated Americans should study and know. The new ethos valued hipness, not class.
Moreover, the self-esteem hurricanes blew across the landscape. You don't have to read or listen to boring stuff to possess character. You are wonderful just the way you are. General-interest magazines paid less attention to the lofty world people hoped to enter and started covering the readers themselves. The media segmented as each lifestyle niche got its own treatment. Attention narrowed. Technology accelerated everything.
In the middle of all this, the middlebrow general-interest magazines have tried to adapt. But events shock nations and cultures shift. The United States has just endured a financial crisis and a recession. Already one can see a new sobriety in the air. The savings rate is up. Consumption is down. The political world is focused on deficits and austerity. Hummers look kind of silly now. The polls show that Americans are deeply worried about the long-term fate of their nation.
A verdict has been reached about the bubble age: people got shortsighted. There is now a countervailing desire to be a little more serious, to think about the long term more, to return to fundamentals. There's been a broadening of the national attention span.
In this climate, there should be room for a general-interest magazine to reinvent the old middlebrow formula. There should be room for a magazine that counterprograms against the ceaseless ephemera of much of the online world and offers things you will remember, a magazine that doesn't endlessly chase buzz, that isn't coastal urban journalists writing ceaselessly for each other, that doesn't aim for insider-ish horserace gossip when covering politics, that doesn't chase the same upscale liberal audience that every other media outlet is chasing.
There must be room for a magazine that offers an aspirational ideal to the middle manager in the suburban office park, that offers a respite from the deluge of vapid social network chatter, that transmits the country's cultural inheritance and its shared way of life, that separates for busy people the things that are enduring from the things that aren't.
In the media business, as in politics, it's important to know what year it is. It's 2010, not 1998 or 1986. There is an anxious seriousness in the air, waiting for an outlet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ETHICS (71%); RELIGION (65%)

COMPANY: BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



670 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Japan Works to Cut Ties Between Mob and Business

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO --When the toasts are raised here next year at the opening of the world's tallest communications tower, yakuza gangsters will not be celebrating.
The yakuza, as members of Japan's criminal underworld are known, are banned from the construction of the 2,080-foot tower, developers say.
''The mob cannot come here,'' said Toru Hironaka, a lawyer who leads a legal team retained by the tower's developers to bar crime syndicates from the construction project.
The ban is part of a nationwide effort by the Japanese government and the business community to sever the deep-rooted ties between organized crime and corporate Japan, especially in the construction industry. 
As part of the national crackdown, on Thursday a top crime boss of Japan's largest crime syndicate, the Yamaguchi-gumi, was arrested on charges of extorting 40 million yen ($480,000) from a construction company in the western city of Kyoto, police officials said.
The man arrested, Kiyoshi Takayama, 63, had been seen as the syndicate's de facto leader after its official boss was imprisoned in 2005 for possessing firearms, which are illegal in Japan.
''Organized crime is threatening Japan's entire economy,'' Kohei Kishi, director of the organized crime division of Japan's National Police Agency, said in recent interview. ''And they have deep roots in construction.''
The National Police Agency and other government departments are pressuring businesses of various sorts to stamp out mafia links, which police officials describe as more entrenched in corporate Japan than in the United States.
The country's finance ministry, for example, has directed banks to step up safeguards to prevent money laundering, cut off loans to mob-related companies and deny bank accounts to individuals with known gangster ties.
The big target, though, is Japan's 30 trillion yen ($362 billion) construction industry, where the yakuza have long run rampant. In the 1990s, at the peak of yakuza involvement with construction, police estimate that gangs pocketed at least 2 to 3 percent of all construction spending in Japan.
Many experts say Japan's crackdown efforts are long overdue. The crime syndicates now operate with such sophistication that Jake Adelstein, who has written extensively about Japanese organized crime, calls the yakuza ''Goldman Sachs with guns.''
Across Japan, almost 83,000 gangsters operate in 22 crime syndicates, according to police data, that contribute to a mob-controlled economy worth an estimated 20 trillion yen ($242 billion) a year.
In the construction industry, the yakuza's influence dates back to at least Japan's extensive rebuilding after the devastation of World War II, when the mob helped supply cheap labor to contractors, aiding in the breakup of worker strikes and the enforcement of labor compliance.
A modern-day yakuza boss pressures developers to pay ''protection money'' to cover construction projects -- as in the case in Kyoto -- or use front companies to win lucrative construction or procurement contracts, police say.
In a 2007 police survey of 3,000 construction companies in Japan, 34 percent of respondents said they had been approached by the yakuza with requests for payments or business in the last year.
Sometimes it is the developers that reach out to the yakuza -- to muscle reluctant owners into selling their land, for example. In 2008, the president of a big real estate company, Suruga, resigned after police arrested members of a front company that Suruga had hired to evict occupants from a Tokyo building. Banks quickly recalled their loans from Suruga, and the company went bankrupt.
''The construction industry was once tolerant of yakuza involvement,'' said Hiroshi Inuzuka, a lawyer and adviser to the nationwide Federation of Construction Contractors, a trade group. ''A good project manager was expected to smooth over 'local relations,' which involved working with the yakuza so there would be no trouble,'' he said.
The industry's anti-yakuza effort, which began in 2008, has shifted away from the past focus on going after the crime gangs themselves. Now the emphasis is on monitoring companies and imposing tougher penalties on ones that do business with the mob.
In April, the federation advised its members to adapt a clause in all contracts that would void obligations if a contractor was found to have links with the yakuza.
The new Tokyo tower -- which is called the Tokyo Sky Tree -- has become a prominent symbol of the crackdown. Companies involved include the railroad operator Tobu Railway and the Obayashi Corporation, one of Japan's biggest contractors.
In late 2008, the companies working on the Sky Tree teamed up with local businesses to form an anti-yakuza committee. It is one of more than 100 similar committees that have been formed here in the past few years.
Mr. Hironaka, the tower's anti-mob lawyer, says movement to and from the construction site is closely monitored by guards and with closed-circuit video. Contracts are scrutinized to make sure that no construction equipment or materials -- not even boxed lunches or gloves for workers -- come from companies with mob affiliations.
''The site is water-tight,'' Mr. Hironaka said. ''It will take a lot to get past all that.''
Local governments, whose public works projects account for the bulk of construction spending in Japan, have also joined the campaign to extract the yakuza from the building business. Next month, Tokyo is set to ban any company or individual affiliated with the yakuza from city contracts -- from office supplies to public works -- along with threats of penalties and public disclosure for companies found to have mafia ties.
Morio Umeda, who runs a public anti-yakuza advice center in Tokyo and runs seminars for companies on dealing with the yakuza, says inquiries are rising as more companies try to sever ties with the mob. In 2009, similar advice centers across the country received more than 4,200 consultations about organized crime from companies in construction or real estate, about 12 percent of total consultations.
''I tell them that they should not be afraid, that they should go to the police even if they are warned not to,'' said Mr. Umeda, a former anti-yakuza officer with the Tokyo Metropolitan Police. ''But especially at busy construction sites, it can sometimes be difficult to be aware of who's coming and going.''
And the mob is threatening to fight back. Last month, police say, a gunshot was fired into the wall of a construction site linked to Takenaka Corporation, one of Japan's biggest general contractors, the fourth shooting at construction sites in Tokyo this year. Although no one has been hurt, the shootings have resonated in a country where guns are almost unobtainable for everyone except gangsters.
Those close to the yakuza call the attacks a sign of desperation.
''It's the ice age'' for organized crime, said Yukio Yamanouchi, a former legal adviser to the Yamaguchi-gumi, who still defends members of organized crime.
''They looked for new earnings in the mainstream economy, but that's triggered a backlash,'' Mr. Yamanouchi said. ''Now, some yakuza are worrying where their next meal will come from.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Japan banned organized crime from the construction of the Tokyo Sky Tree, a communications tower that will open next year. (B1)
 Japan's construction industry started its anti-mob effort in 2008, and the new tower has become of symbol of the crackdown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (96%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); EXTORTION (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); ARRESTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (69%); STRIKES (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



671 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: With All Disrespect, Mr. President

 BODY:
There was supposed to be a bipartisan summit at the White House on Thursday, but only the Democrats showed up. The Republican leadership of the House and Senate somehow couldn't find any time in their schedules to meet with the president of the United States. If this is what cooperation and mutual respect is going to look like over the next two years, then settle in for more trench warfare and far less progress. 
It has been more than two weeks since President Obama issued a postelection invitation for Congressional leaders to join him for dinner on Nov. 18 to discuss ''how we can move the American people's agenda forward.'' Republicans left him hanging, refusing to commit to a date even as the office of Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, said he was encouraged that the president wanted to discuss areas of agreement.
On Wednesday, the Republicans, led by Mr. McConnell, said they just didn't have the time. They had discovered there was so much to do -- new members to welcome and lots of other unspecified details. Besides, they said, the president should have asked for a mutually agreeable date instead of just inviting them. So the meeting was pushed back until Nov. 30.
As the Republicans know, that means less time to work out important compromises in the remaining lame-duck session on crucial issues like taxes, the nuclear arms treaty with Russia and extending unemployment insurance. So far, in fact, there has been zero interest in actual compromise on any of those issues, despite extended hands from the White House. On Thursday, House Republicans blocked a bill that would extend long-term unemployment insurance past the holidays.
Beyond the practical implications of this rudeness, there is an increasingly obvious lack of respect for the president and the presidency, with Republicans interpreting their electoral victory as a mandate to act with hubris. Steny Hoyer, the outgoing House majority leader, noted Thursday that he couldn't remember a single instance when Democrats did not change their schedule to accommodate a request to meet with President George W. Bush. Mr. McConnell has already made it clear that defeating Mr. Obama is more important than negotiating on legislation. Apparently, that also goes for snubbing Mr. Obama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); STENY HOYER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



672 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Financier Seeks Damages From Former Partners

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Steven L. Rattner's antagonists include not only the New York attorney general but also Mr. Rattner's former business partners.
In an unusual filing made Thursday in New York state court, Mr. Rattner disclosed an arbitration claim he brought against the Quadrangle Group, the private equity firm he helped found.
The claim seeks damages against Quadrangle and its partners ''for their unlawful conduct and contractual breaches'' and for taking advantage of Mr. Rattner's departure ''to seize'' money owed to him. 
Quadrangle said in a letter to investors that Mr. Rattner's filing was filled with inaccuracies and that the firm would contest his claims.
The dispute comes amid Mr. Rattner's other legal woes: On Thursday, the attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, filed two lawsuits against him, seeking $26 million and a lifetime ban from the state securities industry.
Mr. Rattner's surprise court filing underscores the deep bitterness between Mr. Rattner and his former colleagues at the New York private equity firm. Mr. Rattner, once a top media industry investment banker, left his post as deputy chairman of the former Lazard Freres a decade ago to start Quadrangle with three colleagues.
In February 2009, he left Quadrangle to head the White House's auto industry overhaul effort. His departure put his former partners in a difficult spot. Not only was the firm struggling with its investments during the depths of the financial crisis, but it was also dealing with the government investigation into its dealings with state pension funds.
Quadrangle settled with Mr. Cuomo's office earlier this year over alleged improper payments made to a top adviser to the New York State comptroller for his help in securing a $150 million investment from the state pension fund.
The firm paid a $12 million settlement and, as part of the deal, disavowed Mr. Rattner's actions as ''inappropriate, wrong and unethical.'' At the time, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo said that the Quadrangle executives involved in the conduct at issue in the case were no longer at the firm.
Thursday's state court filing by Mr. Rattner requested documents related to the New York pension fund investigation that his lawyers said would aid in his arbitration claim against the firm. He accused his former partners of effectively throwing him under the bus.
''Faced with the investigation, the Quadrangle parties had a choice: they could have either disclosed completely their involvement with the underlying facts,'' said the filing, ''or they could offer the New York attorney general a scalp. They chose the latter.''
In response, Quadrangle sent a letter to its investors on Thursday stating that Mr. Rattner's arbitration filing, initiated in September, came despite the firm's efforts ''to resolve our differences in a negotiated manner.''
''Unfortunately, his further filing today is filled with inaccuracies and misrepresentations, which continues his pattern of failing to take responsibility for his actions,'' the letter read. ''We will therefore defend ourselves vigorously.''
Mr. Rattner is also defending himself vigorously - from Mr. Cuomo. On Thursday, he settled an action brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission by agreeing to a two-year ban from associating with any investment adviser or broker-dealer and by paying $6.2 million.
''While settling with the S.E.C. begins the process of putting this matter behind me, I will not be bullied simply because the attorney general's office prefers political considerations instead of a reasoned assessment of the facts,'' said Mr. Rattner, who called the lawsuit politically motivated. ''This episode is the first time during 35 years in business that anyone has questioned my ethics or integrity.''
It is unclear how much money Mr. Rattner is seeking from Quadrangle in the arbitration claim. Mr. Rattner, 58, disclosed last year in government filings a net worth of at least $188 million.
Quadrangle continues to manage a $2 billion private equity vehicle but has decided not to raise another fund. The firm has retrenched substantially since Mr. Rattner's departure and is now exploring options that include the sale of a minority stake in the firm.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Rattner has brought an arbitration claim against the Quadrangle Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); DAMAGES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); ETHICS (76%); MISCONDUCT (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (64%)

COMPANY: QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



673 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Speech Offers Support for Obama Policy

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, plans to argue Friday that currency undervaluation by China and other emerging markets is at the root of ''persistent imbalances'' in trade that ''represent a growing financial and economic risk.''
Mr. Bernanke is expected to warn that a ''two-speed global recovery,'' with the richest countries lagging behind fast-growing emerging markets like China and India, is hampering the cooperation the worldwide recovery needs, echoing a main point the Obama administration made -- with limited success -- when leaders of the Group of 20 economic powers gathered last week in South Korea. 
The Fed released on Thursday the prepared text of the speech Mr. Bernanke was scheduled to deliver Friday at a European Central Bank conference in Frankfurt, with accompanying remarks that he planned to deliver as part of a panel discussion there.
For the last two weeks, the Fed has been criticized for its Nov. 3 decision to inject $600 billion into the banking system through next June, resuming an effort to lower long-term interest rates.
Those attacks continued Thursday. Speakers at a conference here, organized by the libertarian Cato Institute, warned that the Fed's monetary policy could lead to asset-price bubbles like the housing boom that crashed in 2007.
Mr. Bernanke's speech argues that unemployment in the United States is at ''unacceptable'' levels, and gingerly wades into the fiscal policy debate roiling Washington.
''In general terms, a fiscal program that combines near-term measures to enhance growth and strong, confidence-inducing steps to reduce longer-term structural deficits would be an important complement to the policies of the Federal Reserve,'' Mr. Bernanke will say.
He does not plan, however, to express a view on extending the Bush-era tax cuts, the most contentious fiscal policy choice facing the White House and the lame-duck Congress.
Even so, by defending the Fed's actions, calling for global rebalancing and hinting that more fiscal stimulus might be needed, Mr. Bernanke's remarks amount to an endorsement of crucial elements of President Obama's economic approach.
But that endorsement, in turn, could further stoke criticism by Congressional Republicans, who say the Fed is defying voters' skepticism about large-scale government intervention in the economy and setting the stage for inflation later, and by foreign officials, who fear the Fed is trying to weaken the dollar to make American exports more competitive.
Mr. Bernanke, a Republican economist who was first appointed by George W. Bush, will reiterate his argument that the Fed felt compelled to act because inflation is so low (about half of the Fed's target of roughly 2 percent) and unemployment so high (stuck at nearly 10 percent for the last 18 months or so).
''In sum, on its current economic trajectory the United States runs the risk of seeing millions of workers unemployed or underemployed for many years,'' he will say. ''As a society, we should find that outcome unacceptable.''
Mr. Bernanke will say that the Fed's first, $1.7 trillion round of asset purchases, which lasted from December 2008 to last March, helped stabilize the economy. By resuming the purchases, the Fed ''seeks to support the economic recovery, promote a faster pace of job creation and reduce the risk of a further decline in inflation that would prove damaging to the recovery.''
(In the speech he will also argue that ''quantitative easing,'' the term markets have used to describe the bond-buying strategy, is an ''inappropriate'' phrase because it usually refers to policies that aim to change the quantity of bank reserves, rather than affect interest rates, as the Fed is trying to do.)
The text includes indirect responses to domestic and overseas critics. He intends to argue that the Fed ''remains unwaveringly committed to price stability'' and that buttressing growth is ''the best way to continue to deliver the strong economic fundamentals that underpin the value of the dollar.''
The speech addresses the anxieties of Brazil, Thailand and other emerging economies, which fear that a surge of foreign capital will drive up prices and interest rates.
If exchange rates were allowed to move freely, Mr. Bernanke will argue, emerging markets would raise interest rates -- and allow their currencies to appreciate -- even as advanced economies like the United States maintained expansionary monetary policies. That would curb the emerging markets' trade surpluses and shift demand toward domestic consumption and away from export-led growth.
Instead, Mr. Bernanke plans to say, currency undervaluation in big surplus economies has led to unbalanced growth and ''uneven burdens of adjustment.''
Since ''the ultimate purpose of economic growth is to deliver higher living standards at home,'' the speech states, surplus countries should satisfy domestic needs instead of focusing mainly on exports.
Without naming China explicitly, Mr. Bernanke warned that its ''pursuit of export-led growth cannot ultimately succeed if the implications of that strategy for global growth and stability are not taken into account.''
As Mr. Bernanke prepared to depart for Frankfurt, other Fed officials rallied to the central bank's defense.
In a speech at Case Western Reserve University, Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, defended the asset purchases, saying that the recovery had been ''exceptionally gradual '' and that she did not expect unemployment to fall below 8 percent before 2013.
Even so, she tried to reassure inflation-fearing skeptics, saying: ''The main variable the Federal Reserve can control over time is the price level. Ensuring price stability is our job.''
At a speech in Chicago, Narayana R. Kocherlakota, president of the Minneapolis Fed, also defended quantitative easing.
He said that in normal times, if the Fed let banks create more money, that could spur inflation. But, he said, that ''this basic logic isn't valid in current circumstances'' because banks were sitting on nearly $1 trillion in excess reserves held at the Fed.
''This means that they are not using a lot of their existing licenses to create money,'' he said. ''Q.E. gives them $600 billion of new licenses to create money, but I do not see why they would suddenly start to use the new ones if they weren't using the old ones.''
Still, he said the effects of the Fed's new policy ''are likely to be relatively modest.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); TAX LAW (62%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); CATO INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



674 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Axis Of Depression

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
What do the government of China, the government of Germany and the Republican Party have in common? They're all trying to bully the Federal Reserve into calling off its efforts to create jobs. And the motives of all three are highly suspect.
It's not as if the Fed is doing anything radical. It's true that the Fed normally conducts monetary policy by buying short-term U.S. government debt, whereas now, under the unhelpful name of ''quantitative easing,'' it's buying longer-term debt. (Buying more short-term debt is pointless because the interest rate on that debt is near zero.) But Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, had it right when he protested that this is ''just monetary policy.'' The Fed is trying to reduce interest rates, as it always does when unemployment is high and inflation is low. 
And inflation is indeed low. Core inflation -- a measure that excludes volatile food and energy prices, and is widely considered a better gauge of underlying trends than the headline number -- is running at just 0.6 percent, the lowest level ever recorded. Meanwhile, unemployment is almost 10 percent, and long-term unemployment is worse than it has been since the Great Depression.
So the case for Fed action is overwhelming. In fact, the main concern reasonable people have about the Fed's plans -- a concern that I share -- is that they are likely to prove too weak, too ineffective.
But there are reasonable people -- and then there's the China-Germany-G.O.P. axis of depression.
It's no mystery why China and Germany are on the warpath against the Fed. Both nations are accustomed to running huge trade surpluses. But for some countries to run trade surpluses, others must run trade deficits -- and, for years, that has meant us. The Fed's expansionary policies, however, have the side effect of somewhat weakening the dollar, making U.S. goods more competitive, and paving the way for a smaller U.S. deficit. And the Chinese and Germans don't want to see that happen.
For the Chinese government, by the way, attacking the Fed has the additional benefit of shifting attention away from its own currency manipulation, which keeps China's currency artificially weak -- precisely the sin China falsely accuses America of committing.
But why are Republicans joining in this attack?
Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues seem stunned to find themselves in the cross hairs. They thought they were acting in the spirit of none other than Milton Friedman, who blamed the Fed for not acting more forcefully during the Great Depression -- and who, in 1998, called on the Bank of Japan to ''buy government bonds on the open market,'' exactly what the Fed is now doing.
Republicans, however, will have none of it, raising objections that range from the odd to the incoherent.
The odd: on Monday, a somewhat strange group of Republican figures -- who knew that William Kristol was an expert on monetary policy? -- released an open letter to the Fed warning that its policies ''risk currency debasement and inflation.'' These concerns were echoed in a letter the top four Republicans in Congress sent Mr. Bernanke on Wednesday. Neither letter explained why we should fear inflation when the reality is that inflation keeps hitting record lows.
And about dollar debasement: leaving aside the fact that a weaker dollar actually helps U.S. manufacturing, where were these people during the previous administration? The dollar slid steadily through most of the Bush years, a decline that dwarfs the recent downtick. Why weren't there similar letters demanding that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman at the time, tighten policy?
Meanwhile, the incoherent: Two Republicans, Mike Pence in the House and Bob Corker in the Senate, have called on the Fed to abandon all efforts to achieve full employment and focus solely on price stability. Why? Because unemployment remains so high. No, I don't understand the logic either.
So what's really motivating the G.O.P. attack on the Fed? Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues were clearly caught by surprise, but the budget expert Stan Collender predicted it all. Back in August, he warned Mr. Bernanke that ''with Republican policy makers seeing economic hardship as the path to election glory,'' they would be ''opposed to any actions taken by the Federal Reserve that would make the economy better.'' In short, their real fear is not that Fed actions will be harmful, it is that they might succeed.
Hence the axis of depression. No doubt some of Mr. Bernanke's critics are motivated by sincere intellectual conviction, but the core reason for the attack on the Fed is self-interest, pure and simple. China and Germany want America to stay uncompetitive; Republicans want the economy to stay weak as long as there's a Democrat in the White House.
And if Mr. Bernanke gives in to their bullying, they may all get their wish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (85%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



675 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Surge Worldwide on the Prospect of a Rescue for Ireland

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and DAVID JOLLY; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States rose Thursday after Ireland indicated that it would seek billions in aid from international lenders to rescue its banks. That eased concerns about the health of Europe's financial system and helped buoy investor sentiment globally.
Oil prices rose and the dollar fell, also fueled by upbeat economic data, analysts said. 
Thomas Lee, the chief United States equity strategist for JPMorgan said that the United States market had also been helped by recent economic data, including a new Labor Department report showing that claims for jobless benefits rose slightly last week by 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 439,000, which matched analysts' estimates.
In addition, a regional survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia showed that manufacturing activity improved this month, and that there were increases in employment and work hours.
The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 173.35 points, or 1.57 percent, or 11,181.23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 18.10 points, or 1.54 percent, at 1,196.69 while the Nasdaq composite index gained 38.39 points, or 1.55 percent, at 2,514.40.
Shares of General Motorsbegan trading after the company's initial public offering, the largest in United States history.
The automaker's shares surged nearly 8 percent after the market opened. They ended the day up $1.19, or 3.61 percent, to $34.19. The stock had been priced at $33 on Wednesday evening.
Investors were reassured about the economic situation in Europe. Irish officials acknowledged for the first time Thursday that the country was seeking aid from international lenders to end its debt crisis. A team from the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank were in Dublin for talks on the country's tottering finances.
''I think there is probably a sense that the sovereign issues in Europe, especially in Ireland, are being addressed,'' Mr. Lee said. ''I think these are reasons for investors to put capital to work.''
Ireland has moved more aggressively than many countries to address problems brought on by the financial crisis, but investors have been losing confidence in its banks in recent months, and a Greek-style rescue now appears imminent. On Wednesday, the British government signaled that it could offer Ireland direct financial aid as well.
Ireland had resisted asking for help, however, because of a reluctance to accept the strings attached to any bailout.
But on Thursday, Finance Minister Brian Lenihan told the Irish Parliament that it would be a ''very desirable outcome'' if a contingency capital fund could be established with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank.
The FTSE 100 index in London rose 1.34 percent, or 76.15 points to 5,768.71. The CAC 40 in Paris rose 1.99 percent, or 75.62 points, to 3,867.97 and the DAX in Frankfurt was up 1.97 percent, or 132.04 points to 6,832.11.
The dollar was lower on its index of a range of currencies. The euro rose to $1.3644 from $1.3529 late Wednesday in New York.
The energy sector was up more than 2 percent.
Brian M. Youngberg, an energy analyst for Edward Jones, said a major factor in the sector's rise was the price of oil, which climbed about 2 percent on the positive economic data and on relief over the Irish crisis.
''The market is obviously up in general, but oil is up with the dollar down, and the dollar is down with the expectation of a bailout of the Irish banking sector forthcoming,'' he said. Halliburton, an oil services giant, rose $2.06, or 5.80 percent, to $37.56, while Cameron International, also a provider of oil services and equipment, rose 5.30 percent, to $47.07.
Other commodities benefited, including metals. Alcoa had one of the largest increases on the Dow, rising 3.40 percent to $13.38.
Shares of other aluminum companies also rose. Century Aluminum Company was up 60 cents, or 4.48 percent, at $14, and Kaiser Aluminum was up $1.72, or 3.87 percent, to $46.12. They helped lift the materials sector by nearly 2 percent.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 5/32, to 97 21/32. The yield rose to 2.90 percent, from 2.88 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); EURO (86%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (70%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); IRELAND (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



676 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Winner Absent, Peace Prize May Not Be Handed Out Now

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS and ALAN COWELL; Andrew Jacobs reported from Beijing and Alan Cowell from London. Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting from Beijing, and Joseph Berger from New York.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- During the depths of the cold war, when the Soviet physicist and human rights advocate Andrei D. Sakharov was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, the Kremlin barred him from leaving the country. But the authorities allowed his wife to collect the award in his stead.
Confronted with a similar challenge in 1983, the Polish authorities permitted the wife of the trade unionist Lech Walesa to travel to Oslo on his behalf. In 1991, the son of the Burmese opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi delivered the acceptance speech for his mother, who was being held under house arrest.
But the Chinese government has come up with a less magnanimous approach to the Norwegian Nobel Committee's decision to give the peace prize to the dissident Liu Xiaobo, 54, who is serving an 11-year sentence for subversion. Mr. Liu's wife, Liu Xia, has been held incommunicado since news of the award broke last month, and the government has been waging a muscular offensive to rebrand the prize as a Western ploy to undermine the Chinese Communist Party's hold on power. 
Beijing's overall response has not been subtle. It has warned foreign governments to stay away from the Dec. 10 ceremony, and it has placed dozens of Chinese dissidents and intellectuals under various forms of detention or surveillance. Last week, two prominent legal scholars were blocked from attending a law conference in London for fear they might later find their way to the awards ceremony to be held at Oslo City Hall.
China's reaction has been so comprehensively hostile that the Nobel committee, for the first time in the postwar era, said Thursday that the central part of the peace prize ceremony -- the bestowing of a medal and $1.5 million in cash -- would probably be postponed, given that neither Mr. Liu nor any of his family members were likely to attend.
This is not the cold war, and China is far more international and integrated into the global economy than either the Soviet Union or Communist Poland ever was. But China, emboldened by its rising economic might, appears to be more determined than many other authoritarian countries to confront the West's notion that Western values are universal and to mobilize China's citizens against what it views as an assault on its political system.
''Awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo once again reflects the strong attempts of Western countries to intervene in the political process in China,'' said a commentary that ran this month in the official newspaper People's Daily. ''It is a well-planned event, premeditated and long organized by Western countries, and is part of a series of actions by the U.S. and its allies and companies to undermine China.''
So far, it appears that Beijing's diplomatic campaign has been only marginally successful. A handful of countries, among them Russia, Iraq, Cuba and Kazakhstan, have acceded to China's plea for a boycott. But 36 other countries have said they will send ambassadors to a rump prize ceremony. ''The ceremony will definitely take place,'' Geir Lundestad, the secretary of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, said in a telephone interview from Oslo.
China's response has been puzzling to some analysts, who say the country has generally sought to avoid a big feud over rights issues. Each new editorial in the state-run press and efforts to muzzle critics supportive of Mr. Liu only feed foreign news reports about the government's strong-arm tactics.
''No amount of huffing and puffing from Beijing will do away with the fact that holding a Nobel laureate in prison for the next decade is disastrous in terms of soft power, a necessary attribute for a genuine global power,'' said Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch.
In fact, many experts say Beijing is simply reinforcing a growing perception in diplomatic circles that it is willing to throw its weight around in ways that undermine its professed desire to be viewed as a new kind of peaceful, harmonious rising power.
''Beijing's excessive reaction fits into the story line of a more assertive China, and this gathering image is inimical to Beijing's basically successful foreign policy strategy of the last three decades,'' said David M. Lampton, director of China studies and a professor at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
Other analysts who follow the country's political system say that the anti-Nobel juggernaut is largely designed for a domestic audience, much of which knew nothing about Mr. Liu until last month. Through its vitriolic commentary in the state-run press and the strict censorship of news accounts sympathetic to Mr. Liu, the government has created a different narrative about the prize at home.
Andrew J. Nathan, a political scientist at Columbia University who has been studying China for four decades, said he was struck by how many Chinese friends and associates, even those living the United States, had accepted the government's contention that Mr. Liu was seeking to push China into chaos through writings that called for free elections and an end to single-party rule. ''The Chinese people I speak to have quite readily absorbed the government's point of view that this guy is a criminal nurtured by the West,'' he said.
Still, despite its best efforts, the coming weeks are likely to be difficult for Beijing. Even without a family member of Mr. Liu's in attendance, Mr. Lundestad of the Nobel committee said the century-old pageant would take place as usual. It will include a speech by the chairman of the peace committee and text messages from the winner read out by the Norwegian actor and director Liv Ullmann. There will also be musical interludes, including one, requested by Mr. Liu, by a children's choir.
There was no immediate reaction from Mr. Liu's family. One of his brothers, Liu Xiaoxuan, did not answer his cellphone. He and another brother had voiced a willingness to represent their brother in Oslo, but on Thursday evening, he sent a brief text message in response to a reporter's unanswered calls, writing, ''Right now I am being monitored, cannot take interviews, can only keep silent.''
According to the Nobel Web site, the last time no one was present to accept the peace medal was in 1936, when the German journalist and pacifist Carl von Ossietzky was not allowed to leave Nazi Germany.
Mr. Ossietzky had been held in Nazi concentration camps in the 1930s and, although the German Propaganda Ministry publicly declared that he was free to go to Norway, ''secret police documents indicate that Ossietzky was refused a passport,'' according to the Nobel Web site. Ill with tuberculosis, he was later sent to a hospital in Berlin, where he was kept under constant surveillance until his death in May 1938.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Liu Xia, whose husband, Liu Xiaobo, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, is not being allowed to travel to the ceremony, nor is anyone else on his behalf. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY WONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A6)
 A police officer in Beijing fended off photos of the house of Liu Xia, the Nobel laureate's wife. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (95%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HOUSE ARREST (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); SENTENCING (68%); LABOR UNIONS (56%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); OSLO, NORWAY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); POLAND (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NORWAY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



677 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: A Stumble on Wrigley Renovation, but Don't Be So Quick to Scoff

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
When my first grader drops a thrown ball, he implores me for a ''re-do.'' It was the same for Tom Ricketts, the Cubs chairman, as he sought to avoid being a pinstriped public-policy pinata.
Mr. Ricketts is dealing with his family's first stumble as members of baseball's propertied class. He seeks government help to renovate Wrigley Field, that quaint symbol of valiant losers, in a move derided by Gov. Pat Quinn, Mayor Richard M. Daley, editorial pages and often fact-free callers to sports talk radio. 
He proposes to use 35 years of any growth in existing annual amusement taxes the team pays to support a $200 million bond-driven renovation. Critics see this as a private enterprise's taking from the city revenue that is needed elsewhere.
Surrounded by beleaguered building trades officials, a plaintive Mr. Ricketts again made his case Tuesday. He contended that stadium and related construction would bring tax revenue to offset what the city might lose by forgoing increased collections resulting from the renovation.
Mr. Ricketts conceded that the ''sequencing'' of his lobbying key public officials had been deficient. This euphemism alluded primarily to Mr. Quinn, who was seemingly pouting because he hadn't been informed earlier.
For sure, the Cubs might have greased the political skids better. And Mr. Ricketts is too candid by half in conceding he doesn't have a Plan B, not even offering a sports team owner's requisite threat to leave town.
It is not to deny the Cubs' importance to conclude that a private firm's study of the team's economic impact, which Mr. Ricketts touts, is short of empirical. I sought an analysis from Allen Sanderson, a University of Chicago economist and sports economics authority, who derided the study as methodologically woeful and self-serving.
''These are commissioned studies that give a predisposed answer,'' Mr. Sanderson said while detailing its apparent deficiencies. ''The old saw that 'you get what you pay for' applies.''
Then we have the sins of the father indirectly visited upon the children via Joe Ricketts, founder of Ameritrade and Tom's father. He heads a group vigorously opposed to federal earmarks and government aid to ''special interests.'' He also serves as a board member of a Washington research organization that has editorialized against subsidies for sports teams.
Even with all that, you wonder if Tom Ricketts is getting a fair shake.
Do you recall Mr. Quinn's campaign ad touting new Ford Motor Company jobs in Illinois? He signed off on $20 million in credits for the healthy automaker as it invests $400 million in its South Side plant. The governor said 1,200 jobs would result.
The state gave $67 million in incentives to retain and expand Navistar's Illinois operations. Mitsubishi's plant in Normal has received $105 million in tax credits in past decades.
In June, Mr. Quinn unveiled tax credits to renovate the Hotel Pere Marquette in Peoria and add an adjacent Courtyard Marriott. The state figures to forgo $10 million in income-tax receipts due to this pilot project, said State Senator John J. Cullerton, the Senate president.
The Peoria gambit will supposedly generate 1,000 construction jobs, the number Mr. Ricketts cites for his Wrigley plan. In Peoria, Mr. Quinn spoke of jobs and the taxes to be paid by workers.
The City of Chicago routinely gives private companies help to move operations and employees from suburban locations and to build affordable housing. Some developers get millions of dollars in tax abatements, while the wealthy owner of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Board of Trade is in line for a $15 million tax subsidy for, yes, a renovation.
Mr. Cullerton and United States Representative Mike Quigley, a Democrat whose district includes Wrigley Field, told me they support the Ricketts plan. Mr. Quigley is a longtime critic of arguably unjustified government aid to business, sometimes via tax-increment financing.
I'm a Yankees fan who thinks cramped, tottering Wrigley should be replaced, just like Yankee Stadium, a longtime symbol of valiant winners.
But if nostalgia doesn't allow you to abide by that specter, don't be too quick to rage at Mr. Ricketts for seeking help to keep it upright.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An artist's view of Cubs Alley, a proposed renovation at Wrigley Field for which the Cubs chairman wants government aid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHICAGO CUBS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); MAYORS (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (80%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (80%); F (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (80%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



678 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: October Was New York State's Best Month for New Jobs in Years, Data Show

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Employers in New York State added more jobs in October than in any month in more than five years, as the state and New York City continued to rebound from the long recession faster than the rest of the nation, according to jobs data released on Thursday.
The gains helped push New York City's unemployment rate down to 9.2 percent -- its lowest level since May 2009 -- and held the state's unemployment rate steady at 8.3 percent. The national unemployment rate is higher, at 9.6 percent for October. 
The state gained 40,500 private-sector jobs last month, the most since April 2005, near the height of the boom that preceded the financial crisis, state officials said. Most of the jobs that have been added this year have been in the city, where employment has risen twice as fast as it has in the country as a whole.
The relatively strong recovery in New York has come despite only a gradual return to hiring on Wall Street, which has traditionally powered the city's economy. Instead, the main sources of new jobs have been in professional and business services, like accounting and advertising, and in lower-paying fields like education and health care.
''It finally appears as if the recovery has hit nearly every segment of the economy,'' said Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist with Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm in Manhattan. ''It had been concentrated in tourism and health, but now has swept across the office-based industries, including financial services.''
Ms. Denham cited a gain of 2,600 jobs at employment agencies as ''a sign that the economy is truly on the upswing'' because those temporary positions often lead to permanent jobs later. Among other positive signals, she said, the securities industry added 1,600 jobs in October and has now recouped almost all of the jobs it cut after the financial crisis set in. (Ms. Denham adjusts the data for the traditional seasonal fluctuations, while the State Labor Department's most recent statistics for the city are unadjusted.)
Over the past year, the city has added 55,400 private-sector jobs, a gain of about 1.8 percent. That was double the rate of job growth for the nation over that period, and significantly higher than the 1 percent gain for the entire state. Meanwhile, employment in government agencies in the city has declined by 13,800, said James Brown, principal economist for the Labor Department.
The public sector may shrink even faster: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced budget cuts on Thursday that would eliminate 2,100 jobs this year and 8,200 in the next fiscal year.
Still, the number of unemployed city residents has declined by more than 50,000 in the past year, from a peak of about 415,000, Mr. Brown said. There were slightly fewer than 800,000 people unemployed statewide, and about 527,000 people were collecting unemployment benefits from the state.
The statewide private-sector job gain of 40,500, which is adjusted for seasonal ups and downs, was the largest in any month since April 2005, said Norman A. Steele, deputy director of the Labor Department's Division of Research and Statistics. ''New York State's labor market has regained some of the momentum it lost earlier this year,'' Mr. Steele said.
The city's unemployment rate dropped from 9.3 percent in September; a year ago, it was above 10 percent and more than 410,000 residents were unemployed.
But many of those still looking for work are in danger of exhausting their unemployment insurance soon. On Wednesday, a bill to extend those benefits for an additional three months failed to pass.
The city's private-sector job gain, which is not adjusted for the usual seasonal fluctuations, was more than double the typical increase in jobs in October, Mr. Brown said. The unemployment rate fell only slightly because it was seasonally adjusted.
The professional and business services, which have led the city's recovery from the recession this year, added almost 15,000 jobs last month as corporate profits rose, Mr. Brown said. Those sectors include many of the services that the city's banks and other big corporations use, including accounting, advertising and legal work.
Hiring was also strong among retailers, as they began to add workers for the holiday season, and in the education and health care fields, Mr. Brown said. But employment declined in the tourism-driven leisure and hospitality sector, he said.
Since the recession hit, the proportion of jobs lost in the city has been only about half as big as the nationwide loss, Ms. Denham said. The number of jobs in the city is down about 107,600, or 2.8 percent, since the city's economy peaked in September 2008. Nationally, the total loss is almost 7.5 million jobs, a drop of about 5.4 percent since the national recession started in December 2007, she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); BUDGET CUTS (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



679 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
KARACHI TURNS DEADLY,
Diverted by Bitter Rivalries
More than 1,350 people have died in Karachi in targeted political killings so far this year, more than the number killed in terrorist attacks in all of Pakistan, a human rights report said. A war that has displaced many thousands of ethnic Pashtuns from the northern tribal areas to the city has inflamed Karachi's always volatile ethnic balance. Page A6
SATIRE LEADS TO JAIL IN CHINA 
A 46-year-old Chinese woman was sentenced to one year in a labor camp on the charge of ''disturbing social order'' after she forwarded a satirical microblog message that urged recipients to attack the Japanese Pavillion at the Shanghai World Expo, human rights groups said. Page A10
EGYPT REBUFFS U.S. REQUEST
Egypt said that it was dismayed by Washington's call for foreign monitors to observe the country's coming parliamentary elections, describing it as meddling in its internal affairs. Page A10
MADAGASCAR COUP SPUTTERS
Following announcements by mutineers that all government institutions in Madagascar would be suspended and that they would soon be occupying the airport and the presidential palace, the leader of a coup attempt appeared to be foundering. The military officers who claimed to be taking over the country spent the day in their barracks. Page A9
GERMANY CALM DURING ALERT
Following a concrete terror threat, day was for the most part routine for Germany's 82 million citizens. Train stations were buzzing, coffee shops busy, government offices going about their business. Facing one of their most serious terror alerts, Germans broadly supported their government's call to fight back by resisting fear. PAge A6
AFTER IRELAND, PORTUGAL
As Dublin moves begrudgingly toward accepting a European Union bailout, attention is rapidly shifting to Portugal, the country perceived to be as weak a link in the euro zone as Ireland, though for different reasons. Page A11
National
ROUNDABOUTS ON THE RISE
As Drivers Learn Their Use
Armed with mounting data showing that roundabouts are safer, cheaper to maintain and friendlier to the environment, transportation experts around the country are persuading communities to replace traditional intersections with them. There's just one problem: Americans don't know how to navigate them. Page A12
REPORT ON PROBATION AGENCY
The hiring and promotion practices of the Massachusetts Probation Department are rife with ''systemic abuse and corruption,'' according to an independent report. Page A13
A SUPERHERO FOR TROOPS
Meet Doctrine Man, an Army officer's cartoon creation penned anonymously and posted to a Facebook page. This caped crusader's escapades in battling military bureaucracy have attracted an Internet cult following, small but devoted and expanding among troops around the globe. Page A14
DEBATE OVER TERROR TRIAL
Criticism erupted over the split verdict on terrorism charges against the first Guantanamo detainee to be tried in civilian court, casting new doubts on the Obama administration's goal of trying cases against other prisoners in the civilian criminal justice system. Page A18
New York
LINKING TWO WORLDS
By Extending One Train
Communters have mixed reactions, at best, to a plan by the Bloomberg Administration to extend the No. 7 subway line under the Huson River and into New Jersey's Secaucus Junction station as a way to get more cars off the road and improve public transit options.Page A20
FROM SCROLLS DEBATE TO JAIL
Raphael Haim Golb, a man convicted of impersonating a New York University scholar in a debate over the Dead Sea Scrolls, was sentenced to six months in jail and five years' probation. Mr. Golb's father is a prominent University of Chicago professor who studies the Dead Sea Scrolls. Page A22
Business
AT TOWER IN JAPAN, EFFORT
To Curtail Yakuza Influence
When the toasts are raised at the opening of the world's tallest communications tower in Tokyo, yakuza gangsters will not be celebrating. These members of Japan's criminal underworld are banned from the construction of the tower, developers say, as part of an effort by the government and the business community to sever the deep-rooted ties between organized crime and corporate Japan. Page B1
EX-MADOFF WORKERS INDICTED
Two former employees of Bernard L. Madoff were indicted, bringing to eight the number of people charged in the fraud. The Securities and Exchange Commission filed separate civil charges against them. Page B4
GROWTH CLOUDY, GROUP SAYS
Global growth prospects have clouded recently as a result of regional imbalances, persistently high unemployment and the failure of private consumption to pick up the slack created by the withdrawal of government stimulus, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said. Page B8
Arts
A GAUDY SWASHBUCKLE
In a Cluttered History
Within a multitude of names, citations and facts lie the essence and the central problem of ''A Free Man of Color,'' a Lincoln Center Theater production, writes Ben Brantley. Directed with a bravado that verges on desperation by the redoubtable George C. Wolfe, this big, untidy historical comedy that never coheres is pretty much the sum of what it cites. Page C1
HOMAGE TO THE OUTLAW
The Museum of the American Gangster displays beguiling curiosities from the annals of crime: seven .45-caliber bullets from the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, the bullet that killed Pretty Boy Floyd, and two death masks of John Dillinger. The museum's founder says his collection is a statement about America's conflict between authoritarianism and anarchy. Page C31
Sports
AS VICK'S STAR RISES,
Conviction Stigma Fades
Michael Vick, convicted in 2007 of operating a dogfighting ring, is the latest in a growing line of athletes who found themselves tangled in scandal and used the redemptive power of their athletic ability to scramble away from the sordidness. Few, if any, have done so with such unexpected aplomb. Page B11
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A25
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); COUPS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); SENTENCING (76%); PROBATION (76%); LITIGATION (76%); VERDICTS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); EURO ZONE (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%); EURO CRISIS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (77%) PAKISTAN (94%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); MADAGASCAR (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



680 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: O.E.C.D. Sees Global Recovery Slowing

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- Global growth prospects have clouded recently as a result of regional imbalances, persistently high unemployment and the failure of private consumption to pick up the slack created by the withdrawal of government stimulus, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Thursday. 
''The recovery's under way, but it's going slower than expected a few months back -- it's also uneven,'' said the organization's chief economist, Pier Carlo Padoan.
The Paris-based agency forecast in a twice-yearly report that growth among its 33 members, mostly developed countries, would reach 2.7 percent this year, moderate to 2.3 percent in 2011 and then bounce back to 2.8 percent in 2012.
In its previous forecast in May, the organization projected an expansion of 2.7 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2011.
''Uneven growth within the O.E.C.D. area, as well as between the O.E.C.D. and emerging economies, will add to global imbalances, which are among the most significant threats to the recovery,'' the organization said.
The report highlighted other risks that could derail the recovery, including the potential for renewed and prolonged drops in real estate prices, most notably in the United States and Britain; the sovereign debt crisis in some European countries; and possible abrupt reversals in government bond yields.
With economic growth picking up only modestly, prospects for strong employment growth ''appear limited,'' it added.
The organization warned countries against taking ''unilateral action'' in response to recent exchange-rate volatility and patterns in capital flows, which have been shifting to emerging markets for higher returns. International collaboration would be essential to ward off protectionism, it added.
The main emerging markets are likely to grow at a ''slightly lower, and more sustainable, pace'' than has been the case, the report said. Still, these rates will remain much higher than in the O.E.C.D. as a whole and will help lift global trade growth to more than 8 percent annually in 2011 and 2012.
The O.E.C.D. said that world growth would slow to 4.2 percent in 2011 from 4.6 percent this year, and then return to 4.6 percent in 2012. That was also a slight downgrade from its last assessment.
In the United States, growth was projected to rise to 2.2 percent in 2011 and then to 3.1 percent in 2012. For the euro zone, growth was forecast at 1.7 percent in 2011 and 2 percent the year after, while in Japan, gross domestic product was forecast to expand 1.7 percent in 2011 and 1.3 percent in 2012.
Mr. Padoan said the Federal Reserve's policy of making huge purchases of financial assets, known as quantitative easing, was likely to be less effective the longer it lasted. But the chances that the United States will enter a prolonged period of deflation appear limited, he added.
He said he was ''moderately optimistic'' that the euro zone might have gotten through the worst of its debt crisis.
''Paradoxically, Europe appears stronger'' as a result of recent events, he said, arguing that the crisis had led to the creation of new financial structures and was likely to bring political overhauls, including a tighter surveillance of national budgets by European Union officials in Brussels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BONDS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



681 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: A Shortcoming Of Stress Tests

BYLINE: By ROB COX and JEFFREY GOLDFARB

 BODY:
The newly powerful Federal Reserve may have missed a trick. The central bank, charged under the Dodd-Frank overhaul bill with broad oversight of the banking system, is asking the 19 biggest American financial institutions to submit to a series of stress tests. That's a good thing. The trouble is the regulator plans to keep the results and the criteria used in the tests private.
That's a shame. The stress tests the Fed ran in early 2009 were critical to drawing a line under the financial crisis. By coordinating with fellow banking regulators, the Fed minimized banks' ability to game the system. 
More important, it published worst cases and base cases for the economy and various asset classes. And at the end of the exercise, the Fed revealed the financial versions of electrocardiograms for all the institutions it deemed big enough to create havoc in the system if they failed.
That convinced investors that the Fed's diagnosis of the firms' health -- or treatment needed -- was appropriate, and bolstered confidence in the system more broadly. Companies raised nearly $200 billion, some easily and cheaply, and others with great difficulty, to shore up their capital and comply with the Fed's requirements. The process helped end the panic that began in 2008.
Now, the Fed is putting banks back on the treadmill to evaluate their desire to begin increasing dividends, buying back stock or expanding. That's unequivocally a good thing. But by keeping investors at large in the dark on the results, the Fed cannot hope to truly increase confidence in the same way it did a year ago. Banks may feel that divulging so much information would be burdensome. But their too-big-to-fail status has conferred benefits, especially cheap financing. So some additional disclosure obligation seems fair.
The lack of transparency may not be entirely the Fed's fault. It could be as much a flaw of the financial law, which mandates regular reviews of this kind but doesn't detail their scope or require public disclosure. This may just be one of the first obvious defects in the law to come to light.
Mixed Media
The courage of Comcast's conviction will now be on full display.
Even the most idiosyncratic American cable television owners, the Dolan family, have decided that separating content from distribution is an idea worth exploring for their company, Cablevision. That makes the decision by Comcast's boss, Brian Roberts, to move in the other direction by acquiring NBC Universal stand out even more. Though it struck a good deal, Comcast will need to execute impeccably to satisfy investors.
Cablevision considered the idea of spinning off networks like AMC and Sundance Channel five years ago as part of a more sweeping proposal for the company. Though the plan flopped and James and Charles Dolan could easily be dismissed as industry wild cards, Cablevision turned out to be ahead of its time.
Since then, Time Warner disconnected cable from its media operations, Cox Communications unloaded the Travel Channel, and Rupert Murdoch invested billions to buy more content but parted with his controlling stake in the DirecTV satellite broadcaster to reclaim News Corporation shares from John Malone. Now Cablevision is following the pack, hoping to structure a detachment of Rainbow Media as a tax-free pro rata distribution to shareholders.
On the same day that Cablevision announced its fragmentation analysis, Comcast laid the groundwork for taking control of NBC Universal, with its TV channels and movie studio, from General Electric. The deal still awaits regulatory approval, but Comcast unveiled a new executive lineup for NBC's divisions under Stephen Burke, the cable operator's chief operating officer. They'll be under pressure to deliver on what will now be a unique business model with cable and programming housed under one roof.
Other companies have unwound the structure for a variety of reasons. Yet all of them, at one time or another, met with unhappy investors who found value trapped inside the mixed media. Comcast's shareholders will have no easy comparison to make, meaning managers, however good they may be, will struggle each quarter to showcase how and why it all works together.
The battle already looks uphill. Comcast, at 16 times estimated earnings, is a slight discount to Time Warner Cable, according to Thomson Reuters data -- and a long way from the 22 multiple at which Cablevision trades. ROB COX and JEFFREY GOLDFARB

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian Roberts has set Comcast on an unusual path in its NBC takeover. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (84%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES DOLAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



682 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Cost-Saving State Law Endangers Growth of Wind Industry

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN

 BODY:
Chicago is the nation's wind industry economic hub, home to about 80 wind companies from corporate headquarters to turbine component factories. Illinois has ample farmland well-suited for wind farms, and a law mandating that the state get at least 18 percent of its electricity from wind power by 2025.
But the byzantine process by which an obscure state agency decides where that wind power comes from has stalled development of new wind farms and threatens to curtail Illinois's wind generation for years to come, experts said. A number of companies have new farms sited, permitted and ready to be constructed, but a complicated bidding process playing out through December could determine whether any of them are actually built.
Companies say they are caught in a vise. In order to get bank financing to build a wind farm, companies usually need a promise from the Illinois Power Agency -- a long-term power purchase agreement -- that their electricity will actually be bought for years to come. But the power agency so far has not made guarantees that would facilitate new wind farm construction since it is required to buy electricity from the cheapest sources that will satisfy wind-power mandates. 
Wind-power developers fear that unless the governor, the Illinois Commerce Commission or the state legislature takes action to revamp the state's renewable-energy procurement process, few or no long-term contracts for new wind farms will be awarded and the state will fulfill its renewable-energy requirement largely by buying credits from wind farms in Texas and other states.
The Illinois Power Agency was created by a 2007 state statute intended to ensure that power giants ComEd and Ameren buy electricity from generating companies that give ratepayers the best deal. Purchases are made on the basis of price, and those costs are passed to consumers without mark-up by the utilities. Hence the agency decides where ComEd and Ameren buy their electricity, including the purchase of renewable energy necessary to meet the state's renewable portfolio standard.
Since the power agency's mission is to get the cheapest power possible, it tends to buy wind power on the spot market or through short-term contracts.
In years past, when power prices were relatively high and the economy was humming, many so-called merchant wind farms, which produce power that is generally sold on the spot market, were built in Illinois, operating without long-term contracts.
But now electricity prices are low, and since the economic crisis, credit from banks remains tight. As a result, financial institutions are reluctant to finance a new wind farm unless the developer has a long-term power purchase agreement.
The American Wind Energy Association ranked Illinois seventh nationwide in installed wind capacity for 2009, and 14th for wind potential, meaning it is actually out-performing many other states.
Kevin Borgia, executive director of the Illinois Wind Energy Association, said Illinois had more than 1,800 megawatts of wind capacity, putting it in the top five states nationwide. But that rating could slip if new wind farms do not get financing.
The Illinois Power Agency has committed to procuring up to two million megawatt hours of renewable energy for ComEd and Ameren for the next 20 years. In August, it released the terms for 20-year power purchase contracts. Developers were dissatisfied with the terms, so the agency held a series of stakeholder workshops, and on Nov. 8 it released a revised contract, which wind developers say is still far from ideal. Owners of existing and proposed wind farms, in and out of state, have until Dec. 9 to submit final bids.
The power agency will recommend to the Illinois Commerce Commission which bids to accept, and the final contracts will probably be signed by Dec. 20.
The contracts will guarantee the agency's power purchases, which could prompt construction of new wind farms. But many fear that the contracts will go to existing merchant wind farms, instead of financing new ones.
Stefan Noe, president of Midwest Wind Energy, said his company would most likely not even submit a bid for the Walnut Ridge wind farm it hopes to build 120 miles from Chicago, since it does not think the project is feasible under the power agency's terms.
Because the agency seeks the lowest price, some in the industry believe that existing farms can be more competitive because they do not have the high capital costs that future farm developers take into account.
''This is disappointing to us, given the shovel-ready nature of Walnut Ridge and the significant development dollars that our company has invested in the project to date,'' Mr. Noe said.
This month a wind farm known as Top Crop II went online in Grundy County. The project was begun before the economic crisis and before developers needed long-term contracts to construct wind farms, said Tanuj Deora, government affairs director for Horizon Wind Energy, which owns Top Crop II. In the current economic and regulatory climate, Mr. Deora said, a project like Top Crop, which can power 54,000 homes, would most likely not be built.
A Houston company, Horizon, is ready to build a wind farm near Bloomington that would power 138,000 homes, but it probably needs a long-term contract to secure financing.
Mr. Deora said a failure to invest in new wind farms could lead to higher electricity rates, especially if stricter air quality laws, public opposition and aging equipment mean the closing of coal plants that now provide the majority of the state's energy.
''The reality is if we don't have long-term contracts, we won't get new resources built,'' Mr. Deora said.
Howard Learner, a professor of environmental law at Northwestern University, said this was a make-or-break moment for wind power in Illinois.
''There's been recognition by everyone involved of the need for long-term contracts for new wind farms to support jobs in the state and also reduce pollution here,'' Mr. Learner said.
Mr. Learner is also executive director of the Environmental Law and Policy Center, which released a study this month showing that Illinois is home to more than 100 wind-related companies employing more than 15,000 people.
Mr. Borgia, of the Illinois Wind Energy Association, said the Illinois Power Agency's contracting structure was created to protect ratepayers in the bulk purchase of electricity from all sources, not to deal specifically with renewable energy or to facilitate new wind development.
Hence, wind experts say, Illinois's wind procurement process is exceptionally complicated and inefficient.
''The contract wasn't designed for this process,'' Mr. Borgia said. ''It's like using a water-slide contract to commission a wind farm. You could do that, but why would you? Why wouldn't you use a wind farm contract?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Illinois is a leader in wind farms, like this one near Dwight, but the industry's future is threatened by the mechanics of a state law that governs energy purchases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (96%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SPOT MARKET (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UTILITY RATES (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



683 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: 12th-Grade Reading and Math Scores Rise Slightly After a Historic Low in 2005

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Reading scores for the nation's 12th-grade students have increased somewhat since they dropped to a historic low in 2005, according to results of the largest federal test, released Thursday. Average math scores also ticked upward.
Experts said the increases, after years of dismal achievement reports, were surprising because every year the nation's schools are educating more black and Hispanic students, who on average score lower than whites and Asians. 
The black-white achievement gap dates back more than a century, though researchers debate why it persists. Researchers presume that language barriers pull down scores for Hispanics.
''It's very good news because you have scores going up despite a demographic trend that pulls scores down,'' said Grover J. Whitehurst, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who directed the Department of Education's research division in the Bush administration.
The math and reading tests, known as the National Assessment of Educational Progress and administered by the Department of Education, were given in spring 2009 to a representative national sample of about 50,000 12th-grade students.
Educators and school policymakers closely monitor the national assessment scores much the way corporate leaders and economists watch for changes in the gross domestic product or employment trends.
On the 500-point scale used in the reading assessment, the average 12th grader scored 288 on the 2009 test, up from 286 in 2005. About 38 percent of 12th graders scored at or above the test's proficiency level.
Although the latest scores were a short-term increase, Steven L. Paine, a member of the National Assessment Governing Board, noted that the average score in 2009 represented a drop of four points from the average score of 292 in 1992.
''If we go back almost 20 years and compare today's national reading results, these scores are not quite what they should be,'' Mr. Paine said by audio hookup during a news conference in Washington.
The latest results show that Asians overtook whites as the nation's best readers at the 12th-grade level from 2005 to 2009. The average Asian 12th grader scored 298 in 2009, compared with 287 four years earlier. The average white student scored 296 in 2009, up from 293 in 2005. (After years of reading improvement, Asian fourth- and eighth-grade students first outscored whites in 2007 and 2009, respectively.)
The average Hispanic 12th grader scored 274 in 2009, a two- point rise from 2005. Black 12th graders, on average, scored 269 in 2009, up from 267 in 2005. Officials said these two-point changes in minority scores were not statistically significant.
Whether score increases can be considered significant depends on the test's margin of error, which increases as the number of test-takers falls. Minority students made up a small fraction of total test-takers, making the margin of error for minority scores greater than for scores cited as a national average.
On the reading assessment, the proportion of test-takers who were Hispanic rose to 17 percent in 2009, from 14 percent in 2005. The percentage who were black also rose, while the percentage of whites fell to 61 percent, from 67 percent in 2005.
Not surprisingly, students who said they read a lot in school scored far higher than students who said they read little, said Mr. Paine, West Virginia's schools superintendent. Students who reported reading 20 or more pages for school every day scored 25 points higher on average than students who reported reading five or fewer pages, he said.
On the math assessment, which is scored on a 300-point scale, the average 12th grader scored 153 in 2009, up from 150 in 2005.
Because the governing board changed the math test before its 2005 administration, the latest results cannot be compared with previous math tests given in the 1990s and early 2000s.
Twenty-six percent of 12th graders were proficient in math in 2009. By comparison, on the most recent national assessment of economics, administered in 2006, 42 percent of 12th graders were proficient. On the most recent science and history assessments, only 18 and 13 percent of 12th graders, respectively, showed proficiency.
Officials complain that it is difficult to persuade high school seniors to take the national assessments seriously. They are old enough to realize that because no student is individually scored, there are no consequences to performing poorly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); MATHEMATICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



684 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: 'The 39 Steps' Reaches Its Conclusion

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
It's a Hitchcock ending without any unforeseen twists, murders or characters falling off Mount Rushmore. The Off Broadway production of ''Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps,'' the stage play adapted from that classic 1935 suspense film as well as John Buchan's 1915 novel, will end its run on Jan. 16, press representatives for the play said on Thursday. 
The stage version of ''The 39 Steps,'' which enlists four dynamic, unfortunate, overworked actors to play the dozens of characters seen in the film, has been running at New World Stages since March 25, and will have played 23 previews and 318 performances there when it closes. Fittingly, the quick-change show arrived at New World after a frantic Broadway run that saw it move from the American Airlines Theater (where it opened in January 2008) to the Cort Theater to the Helen Hayes Theater, in a span of just over a year. It also endured some economically brutal months for the theater industry, and was at one point in 2009 the only nonmusical playing on Broadway.
''The 39 Steps'' will have played more than 1,100 performances in New York, and according to American Theater magazine is the most produced play at regional theaters for the 2010-11 season, with 23 productions.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



685 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: From Russia Expert, Gloomy Outlook for Developed World

BYLINE: By ANITA RAGHAVAN

 BODY:
William F. Browder was speaking at Columbia Business School several weeks ago when he was asked a question he gets asked a lot: Where's the next Russia?
Mr. Browder, the grandson of Earl Browder, a onetime leader of the American Communist Party, is uniquely qualified to answer.
From 1996 to 2005, he was on the front lines of investing in Russia, becoming one of the country's most prominent and vocal activist investors with a fund that ballooned to $4.5 billion by the end of 2005, from $25 million a decade earlier. 
Sitting in offices in Paveletskaya Square in Moscow, Mr. Browder focused on under-researched Russian companies that were trading at sharp discounts to their more widely followed peers. He had no plans to leave Russia, but at the end of 2005 he was expelled from the country after the Kremlin turned against him, possibly irked by his criticism of some of Russia's prized companies like Gazprom.
''I was then challenged to figure out the world, which was much harder than a simple place like Moscow,'' said the 46-year-old Mr. Browder, who moved to London, where he now invests in emerging markets from offices in a sedate square in the city's West End.
Mr. Browder is looking grayer these days, but he is upbeat until he starts talking about Russia; then his smile fades and his demeanor turns serious. ''I have pretty dark feelings about Russia,'' he says. ''I think it is a place best to avoid both for financial and moral reasons.''
In his old office in Moscow, he used to have a large painting of Lenin above his desk, but it has now been taken down and is stashed in a corner. The only visible reminder of his time there is a small painting of Red Square.
His team in London with about nine portfolio managers and analysts is bigger than the one he had in Moscow, which is not surprising since he is scouring the globe for investment ideas.
Mr. Browder's schooling on the world came at a critical juncture. By 2007, when he set up Hermitage Global, his new fund, with $1 billion in assets, there were growing signs that the real estate bubble in the United States, which had spawned a lending spree by banks, was headed for a bad end. Mr. Browder and his team did some analysis and concluded that an American bank - he got the wrong one - would fail. Then, as governments spent $9.1 trillion, by his estimate, to rescue their banking systems and revive their economies, he turned his attention to them.
About a year and a half ago, he stood up at a Stanford University alumni event in London and mentioned the unthinkable: a run on the Irish banks, which he posited could occur if depositors decided over a weekend to withdraw their money. Ireland would turn to the European Union, where dithering by fiscal hawks in Germany and France would precipitate a run on the banks on Monday morning.
Mr. Browder's doomsday scene was averted in 2009 when the International Monetary Fund announced a trillion-dollar balance sheet intended to avoid the kind of crisis he laid out. But he had predicted that the move would give Ireland breathing room of only 12 to 18 months, especially since the country, in a move to bolster confidence in its banks, had guaranteed all deposits.
Ireland is a country with ''tax revenue of $41 billion and total G.D.P. of $108 billion and their debt burden is about to explode from $59 billion to $459 billion in order to guarantee all bank deposits,'' Mr. Browder said in an interview this week. ''There is no way they can possibly guarantee everything in the end.''
He said countries like Ireland, Portugal and Greece were in an unsustainable situation. ''They are going to have to default and devalue, and the only way to do that will be to remove themselves from the euro zone and print their own currency,'' he says. ''If they default and don't devalue at the same time, they may never recover.''
Mr. Browder sees the emergence in developed countries of ''debasement inflation'' - or rising prices with no growth. In a situation where central banks of the developed world are printing money, ''you want to own hard things that can't be printed,'' he said. He added that he and his fund owned a lot of gold.
Emerging markets went through more than a decade ago in the Asian financial crisis what developed markets are experiencing now, Mr. Browder said. ''Their currencies aren't going to be debased,'' he says. Hard assets in emerging markets are a better store of value for investors and so he looks to own real estate developers and gold mining companies in these markets.
Mr. Browder said the world was in the second stage of the crisis, where ''governments won't be able to borrow much more, and are going to be forced to print money.'' This stage will spawn a new bubble in long-term bonds. ''People are going to lose their shirts owning long-term bonds,'' he said.
The next - and most dangerous- stage of the crisis will be the collapse of currencies. ''There will be a crisis in confidence in developed market currencies,'' he said. The trouble is, ''you can't bail out currencies when they start collapsing.''
As for the new Russia, Mr. Browder said there would never be another investing opportunity like the previous one in Russia, where investors had the chance to increase their money thirtyfold. But in the high-inflation scene he is painting for the developed world, he says he thinks there could be another lucrative opportunity for Columbia Business School students much closer to home.
''If I were finishing business school right now, I would become an expert as quickly as I could on the U.S. residential real estate market,'' which is 50 percent off of its peak and will become an inflation hedge as the United States and others start printing money, he says.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Governments won't be able to borrow much more, and are going to be forced to print money,'' William Browder, a hedge fund manager, said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO OLMOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ALUMNI (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (60%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (69%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (69%); GAZP (RTS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



686 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Requiem for a Man Whose Ideas on Transit Aren't Past

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Theodore W. Kheel made his bones as a labor arbitrator, a reputation so sturdy that it obscured the trainload of ideas he had about how to transport New Yorkers around their city.
He recommended tolls on the East River bridges. He wanted to nudge car drivers toward off-peak hours, an idea that now falls under the heading of congestion pricing. He urged a subway along Second Avenue -- not a ''stubway,'' like the one finally under construction, but a line that extended all the way to the Lower East Side. To help support mass transit, he suggested a commuter tax on people who did not live in the city but earned their keep there. He proposed ways to make subway rides more pleasant and efficient.
Mr. Kheel, who died last week at age 96, spoke about all these things as far back as four and five decades ago. Writing in New York magazine in 1969, he invoked the spirit of that tumultuous era. ''Transportation,'' he said, ''is as much a civil rights issue as housing and education and jobs.'' 
If any or all of these transit matters sound familiar, there is an excellent reason. Life in this city is often Faulknerian. ''The past is never dead,'' Faulkner wrote in ''Requiem for a Nun.'' ''It's not even past.''
We seem doomed in New York to argue and reargue certain issues over and over and over without ever reaching consensus, let alone action. East River bridge tolls, congestion pricing, a full-length Second Avenue subway, a commuter tax, improving subway service -- these matters and more remain as unresolved today as they were back in 1969. Many of them will undoubtedly still be debated in 2049.
Mr. Kheel's death reinforced that New York verity. It also led Charles Komanoff, an economist and bicycling enthusiast, to recall his work with Mr. Kheel in recent years, a search for a new balance between mass transit and the automobile in a city thoroughly unsuited for vast numbers of motor vehicles.
''Car travel and mass transit are two halves of a whole, the yin and yang of traffic,'' Mr. Kheel wrote in The Daily News in 2008. ''You can't consider one without the other.'' It's not clear which one is the yin and which the yang, but you get the point.
Not all of his ideas were winners. He and Mr. Komanoff proposed making subways and buses free, with lost revenue offset by a batch of fees on drivers, including tolls of $16 on cars and $32 on trucks that enter Manhattan south of 60th Street. That plan never made it to the starting gate.
''Ted and I took it off the table a few months ago,'' Mr. Komanoff said. ''We just had to bow to reality, fiscal and political.''
Politics plays an enormous role at every turn.
Albany politics led in the late 1990s to the death of a commuter tax that had come into being a few years after Mr. Kheel wrote that 1969 article. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's political clumsiness left his own proposals on bridge tolls and congestion pricing dead on arrival a few years ago. His administration's creation of bicycle lanes by fiat, with little or no opinions or advice from local communities, put noses out of joint in many neighborhoods. It remains to be seen if the mayor will be any more dexterous in shepherding an intriguing City Hall idea of a Hudson River tunnel link to extend the No. 7 subway line to Secaucus, N.J.
In the end, much depends on finding that elusive balance between the auto and the train. Drivers and their advocates in politics will always resist attempts to raise bridge and tunnel tolls and to divert a portion of that revenue to mass transit. Typically, they call such efforts unfair. Mr. Kheel saw it differently.
''Ted was not unique on this, but I think he propounded it as insistently as anybody,'' Mr. Komanoff said. ''The car driver is actually using mass transit, if we stretch the definition of 'use.' Without a robust transit system, the road would be so jammed that driving would be nightmarish. All the drivers who would want to be on the road in the absence of a viable transit system would be so much in each other's way that nobody would move.''
Decades ago, Mr. Kheel proposed banning cars altogether from large areas of Manhattan. That sort of talk faded away. Instead, he came to focus on ''balancing the needs of the driver with the needs of the straphanger and the bus rider,'' Mr. Komanoff said. ''He had no demons, no villains. He was looking for solutions, not pointing fingers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Theodore Kheel in 1981. He proposed free subway and bus rides. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK MANNING/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); CYCLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



687 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: How Economic Brawn Transformed a Nation

BYLINE: By JOHN STEELE GORDON. 
John Steele Gordon is the author of ''An Empire of Wealth: The Epic History of American Economic Power'' and other books on economic history.

 BODY:
AMERICAN COLOSSUS
The Triumph of Capitalism, 1865-1900
By H. W. Brands
Illustrated. 614 pages. Doubleday. $35.
It has often been noted that while the American union was established by the Revolution, the American nation was forged only upon the awful anvil of the Civil War. Far less noted, however, is that this nation's extraordinary power and influence in the 20th century and beyond has been largely a product of the remarkable 35 years that followed the Civil War.
In those decades the American economy exploded in size, becoming by far the largest, most productive and most technically advanced in the world. In 1860 the United States had imported almost all its steel -- the product that was increasingly the measure of economic power at that time -- from Britain. By 1900 it was producing more steel than Britain and Germany combined and exporting it profitably to both those countries. 
H. W. Brands tells this story of extraordinary economic transformation in his new book, ''American Colossus.'' Mr. Brands, a professor at the University of Texas, Austin, and one of the country's foremost historians, has written first-rate biographies of Benjamin Franklin, Andrew Jackson and both Presidents Roosevelt, as well as numerous other books on American history. In ''American Colossus'' he paints a broad picture, putting the growth of American economy firmly in the political and social context of the time. He has no ideological ax to grind, providing a rounded and largely fair portrait of the capitalists and the world they made. This is warts-and-all history, but the warts don't get undue attention. Mr. Brands opens his account just after the Civil War, which had greatly fostered American industry with its unprecedented demands for guns, powder, railroad rails and rolling stock, blankets, uniforms and a thousand other industrial products. At the same time the huge increase in the national debt turned Wall Street from a minor player in world markets into the second largest financial market on the globe, after London's. A booming industrial base and a rapidly expanding capital market on Wall Street provided the synergy that produced the colossus of the book's title.
It was a messy process. Not only did modern capitalism evolve at this time, but the rules needed to govern that capitalism and prevent the development of a plutocracy also had to be developed simultaneously. Even accounting had to evolve new tools to allow the efficient management of the vast emerging enterprises.
At the close of the Civil War there was not a single industrial corporation listed on the New York Stock Exchange. By 1900 there were dozens, many employing tens of thousands of workers. But while each corporation spoke with a single voice, the workers did not, putting them at a grave disadvantage in labor negotiations.
One result was a series of violent strikes that live on in the American folk memory, like the Homestead and Pullman strikes and the Haymarket riot. Mr. Brands recounts these disputes vividly, especially the assassination attempt on the industrialist Henry Clay Frick that backfired badly on the Homestead strikers.
Likewise the railroads, the nation's largest industry at this time, often acted in high-handed ways, especially when a railroad had a monopoly on freight transportation, as often was the case on branch lines. The railroads, naturally, took advantage of their monopoly power to charge high freight rates, and farmers fought back by organizing the Granger movement to lobby state governments for stronger economic regulation. That led to the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, the first attempt by the federal government to rein in monopolies.
It was largely a dead letter in the 19th century, when an unsympathetic Supreme Court sharply limited its reach. But it would greatly influence reforms in the early 20th century, although that period is beyond the scope of this book. A sequel on how capitalism was tamed in the next four decades would be most welcome.
And it wasn't always government that led the way to reform. A deeply corrupt New York State government and judiciary allowed Wall Street in the late 1860s to be a free-for-all, capitalism red in tooth and claw. But beginning in 1869 Wall Street cleaned up its own act and would later impose new rules, like requiring that accounts be kept in a uniform fashion and that they be certified by independent accountants.
Mr. Brands, a terrific writer who commands his material, handles this sprawling, complicated story with authority and panache. A book that might have been a worthy but boring tome turns out to be as close as serious history gets to a page turner.
There are some errors in ''American Colossus,'' as is inevitable in a book of its size and scope. Many of them concern one of the most important figures of the period, Cornelius Vanderbilt, or the Commodore. Curiously, Mr. Brands appears to make no use of T. J. Stiles's masterly and deeply researched 2009 Vanderbilt biography, ''The First Tycoon.'' Instead he relies on far older works, like Matthew Josephson's unscholarly and deeply dishonest (if highly popular) ''Robber Barons.'' Vanderbilt does not get a fair shake in this latest book.
The Commodore was tough as nails and a self-interested capitalist to his fingertips, but he never said: ''What do I care about the law? Hain't I got the power?'' And contrary to Mr. Brands's assertion, the financial world was not in the least astonished when William Vanderbilt inherited nearly his father's whole estate, which he doubled in the next eight years.
But such relatively minor matters aside, ''American Colossus'' is a first-rate overview of one of the most important periods in American history, one without which the American Century could not have happened.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARSHA MILLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); TRAINS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%)

TITLE: American Colossus: The Triumph of Capitalism, 1865-1900 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



688 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Time Warner Cable to Test Cheaper Channel Package

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
In an apparent attempt to retain cable customers who are thinking of canceling, or to woo back people who have already canceled, Time Warner Cable will start a trial of a lower-cost cable subscription package next week in New York City. 
For roughly half the cost of Time Warner Cable's current cable TV package, customers will receive ESPN News but not ESPN; TBS but not TNT; CNN but not Fox News or MSNBC. A market trial will begin in New York on Monday, a Time Warner Cable spokeswoman said, and in the company's northeastern Ohio market on Dec. 15.
The slimmed-down package, called TV Essentials, is an experiment for Time Warner Cable and for the television distribution business, which generally bundles as many channels as possible at the highest price possible.
That strategy may be hitting a rough patch. Earlier this week, the research firm SNL Kagan said that the number of households subscribing to a cable or satellite service had dropped for the second consecutive quarter.
The new package ''isn't for everyone, but we hope that some of those most hard-hit by the current economic conditions find it to be a helpful option,'' Glenn Britt, Time Warner Cable chief executive, said in a news release on Thursday evening. The package will cost $39.95 a month in New York and $29.95 a month in Ohio. In New York the company's most common package of cable channels row runs almost $75.
Craig Moffett, a senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said it was significant that the Walt Disney Company, the News Corporation and other channel owners were cooperating in the trial. ''In agreeing to support this package at this price point, the media companies appear to be acknowledging the importance of lower-priced offerings,'' he wrote in an analyst's note Thursday.
Notably, however, the lower-cost package will not be eligible for the so-called double- and triple-play discounts that Time Warner Cable sells to customers to sign up for television, Internet and phone service together. Effectively, Internet service will cost more for TV Essentials customers.
Additionally, the lower-cost package will not include high-definition television channels.
Still, Mr. Moffett called the package an ''extraordinary compromise between content owners and distributors,'' given that content owners have generally resisted any attempt to break up the bundle of channels.
ESPN, which commands about $4 a month from most subscribers, making it the costliest single channel on cable, said Thursday in a statement that it expected the trial to have ''no material impact to our business.'' ESPN added, ''Smaller experimental tiers have been tried before and resulted in very little traction.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TEST MARKETING (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (90%); WALT DISNEY CO (84%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); NEWS CORP (66%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (90%); DIS (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



689 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Ford to Cut Its Stake In Mazda

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Shifting its focus to faster-growing emerging markets, Ford will sell most of its longstanding stake in Japan's Mazda Motor, part of a push by the Detroit automaker to buttress its return to healthy profits.
Ford has decided to cut its stake in Mazda to 3.5 percent from 11 percent, losing its standing as the Japanese automaker's biggest shareholder, Mazda said on Thursday in a statement. Based on Mazda's most recent closing price, the shares being let go by Ford are worth 31 billion yen ($372 million). 
Ford had already reduced its interest in Mazda to 13 percent from 33.4 percent in late 2008, as it scrambled to raise cash in the midst of the financial crisis, signaling a winding-down of relations between the partners.
Because of the restructuring, which included the Mazda share sale, Ford was the only American automaker to avoid bankruptcy reorganization, though it posted a $14.8 billion loss in 2008 -- the biggest in its history. Since then, it has climbed back into the black, earning $1.7 billion in the third quarter, its sixth consecutive profitable quarter.
To reinforce its return to sustained growth, Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, has said that he intends to refocus the automaker on its primary brand. Ford is also restructuring its global operations, emphasizing fast-growing, emerging markets, particularly Brazil, China and India.
Mazda and Ford will maintain a loose technology-sharing partnership, said Mazda's chief executive, Takashi Yamanouchi. The two automakers continue to run factories jointly in the United States, Thailand and China.
In a separate statement, Ford confirmed its sale of the Mazda shares and said the transaction would be completed Friday. Neither side has disclosed potential buyers.
Ford said the reduced ownership in Mazda would allow it to increase flexibility as it continues to pursue growth in key emerging markets.
Ford has been Mazda's largest shareholder since 1979, when it bought 25 percent of the struggling, Hiroshima-based Japanese automaker, helping it to ride out the oil shortage crises of the 1970s.
In 1997, as Mazda's fortunes again dipped in the wake of financial turmoil in Asia, Ford sunk $430 million more into its Japanese partner and raised its stake to 33.4 percent, dispatching Ford vice president Henry Wallace to restructure Mazda as chief executive.The first foreigner to head a major automaker in Japan, Mr. Wallace, a Scotsman, became a national curiosity, even starring in ad campaigns.
Mr. Wallace and Mark Fields, another Ford executive who later headed Mazda, are credited with trimming losses at the Hiroshima-based manufacturer and revamping its vehicle lineup, helping to stage a turnaround in the early 2000s. The Ford-Mazda alliance had generally been seen as a success, with Ford capitalizing on Mazda's strength in smaller cars. Several of Ford's current models were developed with Mazda: the Fiesta compactcar is based on the Mazda2 subcompact, while Ford's Fusion family sedan is based on the Mazda6 platform.
''It's not easy for two companies in this industry to stay togetherover 30 years,'' Mr. Yamanouchi told a news conference in Tokyo.
A close, capital partnership with another automaker was ''unthinkable'' for Mazda, he told reporters. As of Sept. 30, the American bank, Chase Manhattan, was Mazda's second-largest shareholder, with a 7.1 percent stake.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Nov. 19 about Ford's sale of most of its stake in Mazda Motor paraphrased incorrectly from a statement by Takashi Yamanouchi, Mazda's chief executive. He said Mazda would continue to participate in projects with Ford, including the possible joint development of vehicles and engines. He did not say his company planned to stop such ventures with Ford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 7261 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (78%); THAILAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010



690 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: The Texas Fix Is Unlikely For Ireland

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Texas may not look much like Ireland. But at different times, each was deemed a model of rapid economic growth, envied and resented by neighbors. During those boom times, each had banks that went crazy, making so many speculative loans that the banking system was doomed when the bubble burst.
The difference was in what happened after the fall. The United States let the Texas banking industry collapse, with out-of-state banks picking up the pieces as the national deposit insurance fund suffered substantial losses. Ireland instead decided to bail out the banks and nurse them back to health as institutions based in Ireland, not controlled in some other country, and there was no European burden-sharing.
That decision may end up bankrupting Ireland. It certainly has led to a deep and enduring recession. 
Texas banks got into their mess because of the great oil boom prompted by the Iranian revolution in 1979. In 1980 and 1981, Texas grew rapidly while the overall American economy stagnated. The banks piled in and made huge profits. Real estate prices rose, and there was a surge in construction.
When it ended, the banks gradually folded, and tales of excess became legendary. The era was exemplified by Penn Square Bank in Oklahoma, a neighboring oil producer whose economy outpaced even that of Texas in 1980 and 1981. It featured a colorful executive named Bill Patterson who became famous for, among other things, drinking beer out of a cowboy boot. He was also good at making insider loans that were never repaid.
At the time, there was hand-wringing about how Texas could function without banks.
Just fine, it turned out.
Texas ended up with a lack of bank headquarters. That may have reduced support for local charities, not to mention demand for Dallas office space, but there was no shortage of banking offices willing to take deposits and make loans. The Texas economy recovered.
Ireland's economy was the envy of Europe a few years ago. In 2007, when France and Germany were growing at about 2 percent a year, Ireland's growth was almost 7 percent. It was known as the Celtic Tiger and was widely celebrated for the combination of low tax rates and fast growth. The banks grew rapidly and piled on property loans. In the early part of this decade, home prices grew at rates comparable to those in Phoenix and Las Vegas.
The banker who came to epitomize that era was Sean FitzPatrick, the chief executive of Anglo Irish Bank, which grew faster than the others by focusing on property lending above all else. He is remembered as the man who, in good times, denounced bank regulation as ''corporate McCarthyism.'' He also turned out to be good at making secret loans to himself that did not work out.
Ireland has now taken over Anglo Irish, and it has bailed out all the other big banks.
But it is not clear how much more money will be necessary. That depends on how bad the loans are, and given the record of the banks it is easy to understand why lenders are hesitant to believe their latest numbers. The Irish banks are increasingly dependant on the European Central Bank for funding, something that makes the central bank nervous, and much of this week was spent on negotiations about some sort of European bailout.
When the crisis struck, Ireland was the first country to adopt fiscal austerity, and was widely praised for that. Such cutbacks may have been necessary, but a result has been to worsen the recession and put more downward pressure on property prices, which in turn made the banks suffer even more.
During the boom, there was a similar circle, but then it seemed virtuous. Lending enabled people to buy property at ever increasing prices, and the boom in construction made the economy keep growing. At Allied Irish Banks, the largest of the Irish banks and one that seems to have been no more irresponsible than the rest, the book of loans doubled between 2004 and 2007. More than a third of the loans were for construction or unimproved property, while a quarter were for home mortgages.
By the end of 2007, home prices had been falling for more than a year, but the bank continued to finance new construction projects and boasted that only six-tenths of 1 percent of its loans were impaired.
Now, even after dumping many of its worst loans onto a government bailout bank, a tenth of all its loans are impaired.
The bank is still private, and its shares trade as if there is a little value left. The government wants it to remain private and eventually return to being a normal bank, but it is hard to see how the bank can regain the confidence of investors. Earlier this year the bank borrowed money with a government guarantee, but still had to offer to buy back its bonds if the investor wanted. This week it disclosed that some investors did want their money back. The Irish bank bailout now looks more like the first part of a crisis, not the resolution of one.
The European Union likes to compare itself to the United States. The German finance minister, in lecturing the United States a few weeks ago, said the Americans should not worry about their trade deficit with Germany, but look instead to the country's trade balance with the total euro zone. Nobody worried about Europe's balance with any particular American state, he noted.
If the euro zone were more like the United States, this problem would be far less severe. At its economic peak, Ireland accounted for only 2.4 percent of euro zone gross domestic product, while Texas provided 8.2 percent of the G.D.P. of the United States when its banks were about to go down. So it should have been less of a problem for banks outside Ireland to step in than it was for non-Texas institutions to move in then.
Perhaps the attractions of the Irish retail market could have persuaded some German or French banks to take over Irish institutions. The cost to the government would still have been great, but not open-ended, and Ireland would now have a functioning banking system.
To be sure, that might not have happened. The Irish crisis came along as the rest of the world also suffered, and there were bailouts in many places. But it would have been more likely with fewer barriers to cross-border transactions. There were European banking systems that escaped relatively unscathed.
In Europe, it is every country's banking system for itself. Ireland had the misfortune of having a banking system that was relatively large compared to the size of the country, and of having presided over one of the most speculative property booms. The rest of Europe, which still resents Ireland's earlier apparent success, wants to offer as little help as it can without destroying the euro.
Texas greatly benefited from the fact the American economy was integrated, with a central government that could and would help out. Ireland can only wish Europe could be more like that.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with the High & Low Finance column, contrasting the resolution of the Texas banking collapse of the early 1980s to the Irish banking crisis today, misspelled the given name of a lawyer for Bill G. Patterson, an Oklahoma banking executive whose bank, Penn Square Bank, exemplified the excesses of the time. He is Burck Bailey, not Burke.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill G. Patterson, right, with his lawyer Burke Bailey during House hearings on the Penn Square Bank in August 1982. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LONGSTREATH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BANKING LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHARITIES (70%); HOME PRICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

COMPANY: IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



691 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (ABC) 20/20 Cynthia McFadden interviews Cher, above, about her new movie, ''Burlesque''; her co-star Christina Aguilera; her love life; and reports that she's worth more than $600 million. Cher also talks about her daughter with Sonny Bono, Chastity, who became a gay rights advocate, underwent a sex change and is legally known as Chaz Bono. Cher begins the day by making the ABC talk-show rounds with stops at ''Good Morning America,'' at 7 a.m., and ''Live! With Regis and Kelly,'' at 9.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOG WHISPERER Marcy and Nicholas Razum met through a canine search-and-rescue program. Fourteen years later, their 12-year-old German shepherd, Nakota, is preparing to retire, and two puppies -- the year-old Neco and the 10-month-old Yona -- are in training to assume her duties. The problem is, they can't stop chasing their shadows. Cesar Millan helps them get serious about their mission. Elsewhere, he tries to save a snappish cocker spaniel named Justice whose pregnant owner, Chandra Fortier, is worried he will bite her baby. 
8 P.M. (Nickelodeon) ICARLY: ISTART A FAN WAR This new television movie finds Carly (Miranda Cosgrove) and the gang hosting a panel at WebiCon, where mayhem breaks out when fans demand to know a little too much about her love life. Meanwhile, Spencer (Jerry Trainor) comes face to face with his online nemesis, Aspartamay (Jack Black), and incites fans to summon their ''wizard powers'' as the rivals do battle.
8 P.M. (NBC) SCHOOL PRIDE In July 2008 the Partnership for Los Angeles Schools, sponsored by the office of Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa, took over 10 of the city's lowest-performing public schools. Among them: Hollenbeck Middle School, a magnet school with scant resources. Two years later, the school's students are thriving and test scores are improving. In this episode, Tom Stroup and his crew make over the school's athletic facilities with help from Derek Fisher of the Los Angeles Lakers and Joe Torre, the former manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers and, of course, the Yankees.
8 P.M. (CBS) MEDIUM Allison's neighbor Susannah Collings (Laura San Giacomo) is furious when a convicted sex offender (Brian F. O'Byrne) moves into the area. But Allison (Patricia Arquette, left) sees something that makes her think he might not be guilty of the crime.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW The United States Department of Agriculture has long been on a mission to get Americans to eat healthier food as part of its anti-obesity drive. So what was it doing encouraging an increased consumption of cheese, which has been linked to heart disease and is high in calories, through a marketing venture called Dairy Management? Rick Carr tries to explain the mixed message. Other segments examine the origins of Somali piracy and Amy Sedaris's new book, ''Simple Times: Crafts for Poor People.''
9 P.M. (NBC) THE MAN WHO WILL BE KING In this special edition of ''Dateline NBC,'' Brian Williams travels to Northern Scotland to interview Prince Charles about things royal and not so. Topics include his role as the Prince of Wales; his relationship with his sons, William and Harry; the prospect of William's wedding to Kate Middleton; his relationship with the media; his efforts to prevent global warming; and why he wants to be known as ''the defender of nature.'' At 10, ''Harmony,'' part of NBC's Green Week programming, looks at the leadership of Prince Charles on worldwide environmental and economic issues in conjunction with his latest book, ''Harmony: A New Way of Looking at Our World,'' which he wrote with Tony Juniper and Ian Skelly. Prince Charles will also appear on ''Today'' at 7 a.m.
9 P.M. (BBC America) LAW & ORDER: UK A seeming communication glitch between police officers leaves a gay cop without backup and caught in the crossfire between armed drug dealers. But then Detectives Brooks (Bradley Walsh) and Devlin (Jamie Bamber) connect the victim's partner to an extreme religious group that discriminates against homosexuals.
9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR Hillary, a florist who has recently lost 40 pounds and opened her own flower shop, has marriage on her mind. But her wardrobe -- a scary assemblage of aprons, castoffs and dirt-colored attire -- screams spinster. Stacy London and Clinton Kelly give Hillary a makeover that they hope will prompt her beau to finally pop the question.
10 P.M. (HBO) DENNIS MILLER: THE BIG SPEECH Mr. Miller offers his perspective on politics and celebrities, among other targets, in his first HBO stand-up special in four years. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY IDA MAE ASTUTE/ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (76%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); BASEBALL (67%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (62%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (62%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (56%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (50%)

PERSON: CHER (90%); CHRISTINA AGUILERA (73%); REGIS PHILBIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



692 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Small, but Hopeful, Signs in Employment, Factory Output and Growth

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- A closely watched gauge of jobless benefits hit a two-year low last week and factory activity in the country's mid-Atlantic region accelerated in November, suggesting the economy's recovery was gaining speed. 
The improving economic picture was further bolstered by a third report on Thursday showing a measure of future economic activity increased 0.5 percent in October.
While the data is the latest to show the economy shaking off a summer slowdown, it is unlikely to deter the Federal Reserve from completing a plan to buy $600 billion of government debt to stimulate growth.
''The economy experienced some weakness earlier, but things are looking better now,'' said Gus Faucher, director of macroeconomics at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pa.
New claims for state unemployment benefits rose 2,000, to 439,000, last week. However, the four-week moving average, a better gauge of underlying labor trends, hit the lowest level since September 2008, the Labor Department said.
Separately, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said that its business activity index soared to 22.5 this month, the highest since December, from 1 in October. Any reading above zero indicates expansion in the region's manufacturing, and economists had expected a reading of only 5.
Though data so far suggests the economy regained some strength as the fourth quarter started, the rate of recovery remains too slow to reduce the 9.6 percent unemployment rate.
A report on Wednesday showed core consumer inflation in October was the lowest since the record-keeping started 53 years ago. Economists said stubbornly high unemployment and low inflation should help the Fed withstand criticism of its decision to ease monetary policy further.
''I am inclined to believe they will continue. They are not worried about inflation in the near term and they are right not to,'' said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's.
The claims data covered the survey week for the government's employment report for November. Though claims have been too volatile to provide a good prediction of nonfarm payrolls, economists expect employment to expand again in November.
Last month, employers added jobs for the first time since May. The improving labor market trend was also highlighted in the Philadelphia Fed survey, which showed the employment index at its highest since August 2007.
The survey, which closely correlates to the Institute for Supply Management's report on national manufacturing expected early next month, suggested that an unforeseen drop in a gauge of New York state's factory activity may have given a false signal.
The claims data showed the number of people still receiving benefits under regular state programs after an initial week of aid held at a two-year low of 4.3 million for the week ended Nov. 6. However, taking all programs into account, a total of 8.85 million people were claiming benefits during the week of Oct. 30, the latest for which data is available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



693 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK ONLINE; BANK FRAUD

BYLINE: By PETER J. HENNING

 BODY:
The inspector general of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation told The Wall Street Journal recently that the agency had opened criminal investigations into about 50 banks that had failed since the financial collapse in 2008. While that makes it sound like prosecutors will soon be filing charges against a number of bank executives, do not hold your breath waiting for a flood of prosecutions.
The last time there was a surge in bank fraud prosecutions was in the early 1990s during the savings and loan crisis that led to the collapse of nearly 1,800 financial institutions. Unlike that era, the number of bank failures has totaled 311 since 2008, and most of those were smaller institutions that got caught up in construction lending. 
Although some larger banks did collapse in 2008, like Washington Mutual and IndyMac Bancorp, those failures appeared to be more related to aggressive mortgage operations that fell apart during the collapse of the housing market rather than misconduct by executives. And banks were hardly the most prominent contributors to the financial crisis, with the mortgage lender Countrywide Financial playing a significant role, while the collapse of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers triggered much of the upheaval in the bond market.
The F.D.I.C., which is led by Sheila C. Bair, can comb through the records of a failed bank to see if there were any improprieties that contributed to its demise, at which point the agency can only recommend cases to the Justice Department for possible criminal prosecution but cannot pursue them on its own.
Calling the examinations ''criminal investigations'' overstates what is really taking place. The F.D.I.C. cannot compel witnesses to testify and produce documents like a federal grand jury, and its review is limited largely to scrutinizing the documents from the failed bank to see if there are telltale signs of fraud or improper lending practices.
Once the F.D.I.C. makes a criminal referral to the Justice Department, it is up to prosecutors to put together a case, which can take months or even years as documents are subpoenaed and witnesses interviewed to determine whether there is sufficient proof of a crime to seek an indictment.
The better way to understand the F.D.I.C.'s role is that the agency identifies the transactions and loans that appear suspicious enough to warrant a full-scale criminal investigation, at which point the Justice Department takes over.
There are several statutes the Justice Department can employ to pursue prosecutions of bank executives and customers if there are indications of wrongdoing. Among them are the broad bank fraud statute that reaches any scheme or artifice to defraud (18 U.S.C. <7> 1344); a false statement statute that specifically focuses on communications with financial institutions (18 U.S.C. <7> 1014); and prohibitions on false entries in a bank's books and records (18 U.S.C. <7> 1005), bribery of a bank officer (18 U.S.C. <7> 215) and embezzlement or misapplication of bank funds (18 U.S.C. <7> 656).
Proving a violation, however, requires more than just showing that a bank officer acted recklessly or that management made bad business decisions by engaging in questionable lending.
Excessive risk-taking by banks, like diving into subprime loans or qualifying borrowers without any documentation -- so-called ''no doc'' loans -- certainly appears foolhardy, but until mismanagement and stupidity are made into federal offenses, making bad decisions is not enough to prove a crime.
The longer statute of limitations for filing charges involving a financial institution also illustrates how difficult these cases can be. While most federal offenses require the government to initiate its prosecution within five years, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 extended the time period to 10 years for banking crimes.
Congress adopted this provision at the urging of the Justice Department during the savings and loan crisis because of concerns that the complexity of the cases and the sheer volume of bank failures during that period would result in a number of potential prosecutions being lost.
These types of cases are not easy to investigate and prosecute, so the number of F.D.I.C. criminal inquires is not necessarily a strong indicator of the likelihood of prosecutions any time soon.
A more powerful weapon in the F.D.I.C.'s arsenal is its authority under 12 U.S.C. <7> 1821(k) to sue officers and directors of a failed financial institution for monetary damages ''for gross negligence, including any similar conduct or conduct that demonstrates a greater disregard of a duty of care (than gross negligence) including intentional tortuous conduct.'' This can be a much more expeditious means to recover at least some money from those who the F.D.I.C. can show mismanaged the financial institution.
Most important, the standard of proof is by a preponderance of the evidence rather than the higher criminal standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.
As part of any claim against a bank executive, the F.D.I.C. can also try to pursue the insurance company that provided the liability coverage for the bank's executives and directors.
Some of the more flamboyant prosecutions during the savings and loan crisis involved high-living bankers who used the institution's assets as a piggy bank, financing extravagant board meetings at expensive resorts while doling out loans to a favored few. The tales of extravagance in that earlier era have not surfaced in the most recent spate of bank failures, so proving that executives may have committed a crime will not be easy.
Even if there are prosecutions arising from recent bank failures, they are unlikely to involve the kind of lurid facts that draw the media's attention and make a defendant into a poster child for the financial crisis.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNET BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); BOND MARKETS (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



694 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Gates Urges School Budget Overhauls

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Bill Gates, the founder and former chairman of Microsoft, has made education-related philanthropy a major focus since stepping down from his day-to-day role in the company in 2008.
His new area of interest: helping solve schools' money problems. In a speech prepared for delivery Friday, Mr. Gates -- who is gaining considerable clout in education circles -- plans to urge the 50 state superintendents of education to take difficult steps to restructure the nation's public education budgets, which have come under severe pressure in the economic downturn.
He suggests they end teacher pay increases based on seniority and on master's degrees, which he says are unrelated to teachers' ability to raise student achievement. He also urges an end to efforts to reduce class sizes. Instead, he suggests rewarding the most effective teachers with higher pay for taking on larger classes or teaching in needy schools. 
''Of course, restructuring pay systems is like kicking a beehive'' -- but restructure them anyway, Mr. Gates plans to tell the superintendents in his talk to the Council of Chief State School Officers, which opens a convention in Louisville on Friday.
''Rebuild the budget based on excellence,'' Mr. Gates says.
Teachers' unions defend giving raises to teachers as they gain experience and higher education.
''We know that experience makes a difference in student achievement -- teachers get better,'' said Bill Raabe, director of collective bargaining at the National Education Association, the largest teachers' union. ''And additional training, too, whether its a master's degree or some other way a teacher has improved her content knowledge, we think it ought to be compensated.''
Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said of Mr. Gates's speech: ''He is proposing to change one of the things that parents count on -- small class sizes to differentiate instruction. There's a mountain of solid research and common sense showing smaller class sizes benefit students.''
States and local school districts are headed toward what may be painful budget decisions because two years of recession have battered state and local tax revenues, and the $100 billion in stimulus money that has been pumped into public education since spring 2009 is running out.
New Jersey, for example, faces a $10 billion deficit, and Gov. Chris Christie has clashed with superintendents over his efforts to cap their pay.
In several other states including Ohio, which faces an $8 billion deficit, newly elected governors are scrutinizing school spending as part of a broad review.
Secretary of Education Arne Duncan delivered his own speech in Washington this week, titled ''Bang for the Buck in Schooling,'' in which he made arguments similar to those of Mr. Gates.
School officials should be using this crisis to ''leverage transformational change in the education system'' rather than seeking to balance budgets through shorter school years, reduced bus routes or other short-term fixes, Mr. Duncan said.
Mr. Gates accepted an invitation to speak to the council, he said in an interview, because many of the key decisions in America's decentralized education system are made by state superintendents and local school boards.
''These are the leaders,'' he said.
Steven Paine, the West Virginia superintendent who is the council's president, said the group invited Mr. Gates because ''he has a perspective that we need to consider.''
''He's been fairly successful in the business arena,'' he added.
After reading an advance copy of Mr. Gates's speech, Mr. Paine said, ''We all want to transform our education systems, but when you're falling off that funding cliff it's difficult to do.''
In the speech, Mr. Gates says that improving student achievement is a central challenge, and that budget crises are making change necessary.
''You can't fund reforms without money,'' he says. ''And there is no more money.''
The only way out, he says, is by rethinking the way the nation's $500 billion annual expenditures on public schools is allocated. About $50 billion pays for seniority-based annual salary increases for teachers, he says. The nation spends an additional $9 billion annually to pay salary increases to teachers with master's degrees, he says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Gates plans to tell school superintendents, ''Rebuild the budget based on excellence.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF CHIEF STATE SCHOOL OFFICERS (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (92%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



695 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Was the Stimulus Enough of a Jolt?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Two Cultures'' (column, Nov. 16), David Brooks attacks liberals' reliance on economic models. But many economists, including some within the Obama administration (like the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers), argued that the stimulus package was not strong enough, and they were right. 
The problem was likely an excess of political caution (or wishful thinking) in designing the stimulus. Even so, this limited stimulus prevented unemployment from soaring to much higher levels, and nothing in this experience casts doubt on the merits of stimulus under such circumstances.
Mr. Brooks might have noted that the crisis itself was due in no small part to conservative reliance on models that seemed to show that bubbles could not arise in the current world, despite the long history of bubbles and their disastrous consequences.
G. G. Johnson Washington, Nov. 16, 2010
The writer is a retired macroeconomist.
To the Editor:
The apparent path to economic recovery, according to David Brooks, is ''the old wisdom of common sense: simple regulations, low debt, high savings, hard work, few distortions.''
This misses a vital ingredient. For his common sense to make sense, you first must have a job. It is difficult to work hard and save money if you don't have work.
Paul G. Bursiek Boulder, Colo., Nov. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
David Brooks asserts that Germany is one of the countries that weathered the recession best because it had some of ''the best economic fundamentals beforehand.'' Perhaps.
Another major factor (one usually ignored in the United States media) is the requirement of German law that half the board seats at bigger companies go to representatives of the employees.
Countless German jobs were saved by reducing all workers' hours rather than firing some workers.
Things worked differently here.
Michael K. Cantwell Forest Hills, Queens, Nov. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
David Brooks's crowing over the apparent failure of the stimulus to produce expected employment overlooks the inadequacy of this particular stimulus to do the job. Paul Krugman and others pointed out early on that the approximately $800 billion was insufficient for the size of the task at hand.
And the administration knuckled under to right-wing demands for a large chunk to be in the form of tax relief for affluent taxpayers -- those far less likely to spend and recirculate the money than, for example, people hired for public works. As I drive over the rutted roads of Cambridge, I can't help wishing for less ideology and more asphalt.
George Waldstein Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 16, 2010
To the Editor:
We liberals are aware that a national economy does not respond automatically to formulas, no matter how sophisticated the generating computers may be. And we do understand that the country responds to leadership that expounds felt values, and that those values change with time and circumstance.
We liberals happen to think, for instance, that ''simple regulations,'' which did not match the sophistication of the products being peddled, likely were a cause of, and could not be a cure for, the near destruction of our financial system.
Bruce A. McAllister Palm Beach, Fla., Nov. 16, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); RECESSION (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); WRITERS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



696 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Struggling To Make Any Headway

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent, said Thursday that he and other opponents of the military's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy on gay service members had secured the votes to authorize its repeal -- provided that Senate leaders allow a free-flowing debate on the wider military policy bill that includes the repeal.
The renewed confidence expressed by Mr. Lieberman, who is a senior member of the Armed Services Committee, came as Democrats struggled to make any progress on the most pressing issues confronting Congress in its lame-duck session. House Democrats failed in a bid to extend jobless benefits, raising the prospect that aid could run out for millions of Americans headed into the holidays. 
With the added benefits for the long-term unemployed set to begin expiring Dec. 1, Democrats sought to put a three-month extension on the fast track before leaving for a weeklong Thanksgiving recess. The rules required a two-thirds majority and backers of the aid came up about 20 votes short on a final vote of 258 to 154.
''The American people, struggling with high unemployment, continue to look to their leaders for a lifeline until they can get back to work,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after the vote.
When lawmakers return to Washington on Nov. 29, they will try to approve a temporary spending measure and also deal with the expiring Bush-era tax cuts under a brutally compressed schedule.
A stopgap spending measure that is keeping the federal government running expires on Dec. 4, and unless Congress acts all of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts will expire at the end of year.
Leading Democrats and the White House were hoping to win some Republican support for an all-inclusive spending measure that would extend through Sept. 30, sparing a fight early next year with Republicans over spending.
But the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, threw cold water on that idea. ''If this election showed us anything, it's that Americans don't want Congress passing massive trillion dollars bills that have been thrown together behind closed doors,'' Mr. McConnell said in announcing he would oppose such a spending measure. His stance makes it more likely that Congress will approve legislation to finance the government just into early next year.
On the tax issue, Mr. Reid said he would schedule two votes, one on legislation for President Obama's preferred plan to extend the lower rates only on annual income up to $250,000 for couples and $200,000 for individuals, and a second vote on a bill by Mr. McConnell to extend all of the lower rates. The votes would be intended to show Republicans favoring tax cuts for the wealthy.
Mr. McConnell dismissed the plan as a waste of time. ''Votes structured for symbolic reasons in December won't prevent a tax hike in January,'' he said in a statement.
The Senate late Thursday confirmed Jack Lew, most recently a deputy secretary of state, to be Mr. Obama's budget director.
Earlier in the day, Senate Democrats plodded forward on Thursday with legislation to improve the nation's food safety system, with a long list of big issues delayed until after the holiday.
On Wednesday, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, announced that he would push forward with the annual military policy bill, including a repeal of the policy that prohibits openly gay and lesbian people from serving. It was a direct challenge to Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has indicated he will try to block the measure's passage as long as it contains the ''don't ask'' provision.
On Thursday, in a show of resolve, 13 Democratic senators led by Mr. Lieberman held a news conference to proclaim that they had secured the needed votes, including crucial support from Republicans, provided that Mr. Reid did not overly restrict the length of debate or the number of amendments to be proposed.
But it is unclear that Mr. Reid can meet those demands, given the extremely tight calendar, or that Mr. McConnell is willing to make any agreement on the length of debate or number of amendments.
Mr. Lieberman and his colleagues urged the floor leaders to reach an accommodation.
''The movement to end the injustice of 'don't ask, don't tell' is alive and well and we are going to keep fighting -- in the spirit of the American military -- until we get the job done,'' he said. ''And we will get the job done.'' He conceded, however, that he had made no progress in persuading Mr. McCain, a close friend of his, to withdraw his opposition.
Time is running out. The House has already approved its version of the military policy bill, including the repeal language, which would have to be reconciled with the Senate measure.
Leaders of the new House Republican majority have indicated that repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell'' is not a priority for them, making it unlikely they would approve the bill again. That means if the repeal language is not approved by the end of this year, it will be effectively dead.
The House majority leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, said Democrats in his chamber were eager for the Senate to act. ''We feel very, very strongly that the 'don't ask, don't tell' needs to be resolved,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Reid, the Senator majority leader, said he would push ahead for a vote to allow openly gay people to serve in the military.
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman said he and other ''don't ask, don't tell'' opponents had lined up the votes to repeal the law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); APPROVALS (69%); THANKSGIVING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



697 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: China Restarts Rare Earth Shipments to Japan

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China resumed exports of crucial minerals to Japan on Friday for the first time in almost two months, Japanese government officials and an industry executive said.
Chinese customs agents were not only processing the paperwork for shipments of the minerals, known as rare earths, but were also allowing dock workers to load containers of rare earths on ships bound for Japan on Friday afternoon, the Japanese officials and the executive said.
''Everything is flowing,'' said the rare earth industry executive, who insisted on anonymity because of lingering diplomatic sensitivity about the Chinese embargo, which Beijing had never announced or formally acknowledged. 
But an official at another company said that delays persisted for its shipments, a difficulty that suggested not all export restrictions had been lifted.
Although China had allowed shipments of the minerals to resume to the United States and Europe after a brief suspension in late October, deliveries to Japan had remained suspended -- even after Chinese custom agents had started processing the shipping paperwork a few weeks ago.
But Japan's ministry of economy, trade and industry said Friday that 16 of 27 companies that imported rare earth minerals from China had reported in a survey over the last three days that their ability to buy them had improved.
Tsutomu Murasaki, director of the trade ministry's nonferrous metals division, said Friday that some loading of ships with rare earths had begun, after China gave customs approval Wednesday, Reuters reported from Tokyo.
Akihiro Ohata, Japan's trade minister, said that the improvement was consistent with assurances he had received during a meeting last weekend in Yokohama with Zhang Ping, the chairman of China's National Development and Reform Commission.
China produces 95 percent of the world's rare earths and half of its exports of these minerals go to Japan, which uses them in its high-tech manufacturing industries.
Rare earths are vital to the production of a wide range of industrial products, including automobiles, glass, oil refining, computers, smartphones, wind turbines and flat-screen televisions. The military needs them for missiles, sonar systems and the range finders of tanks.
Officials at the General Administration of Customs in Beijing declined to accept questions over the telephone on Friday about rare earth policy, saying that any questions would have to be faxed. When questions were faxed, officials did not respond.
China's decision to resume shipments to Japan may be more than simply a sign of warming relations between Beijing and Tokyo.
Many factories in China assemble products that require high-tech components from Japan that use rare earths. Some of these factories, which employ large numbers of workers in China, have begun running low on components as Japanese suppliers ran short on some of the more obscure rare earths needed to manufacture them, two rare earth industry executives said.
Electronics industries have been affected, particularly camera manufacturers, leading to a desperate scramble for raw materials that has even included buying tons of obscure rare earth compounds from corporate stockpiles in Europe and airlifting them to Japan.
All 32 of the authorized rare earth exporters in China have refused to increase their shipments to other countries during the unannounced ban on shipments to Japan, making it difficult for Japanese traders to obtain supplies indirectly.
As a result of the blocked shipments, some rare earths now cost up to 10 times as much outside China as inside; the Chinese government has started a vigorous campaign to prevent this from leading to smuggling.
Chinese customs officials abruptly halted the processing of paperwork for shipments bound for Japan on Sept. 21. The shipments were halted during an acrimonious dispute over Japan's detention of a Chinese fishing trawler that rammed two Japanese coast guard vessels two weeks earlier near islands long controlled by Japan but claimed by China.
Japan quickly released the captain after China engaged in what Japanese officials described as economic warfare. Government officials in Japan reportedly have said that Japanese companies had rare earth stockpiles that could last through March. But there are 17 different rare earth elements that in turn are processed into a wide range of chemicals that are hard to replace and are produced at different levels of purity. Making sure that every Japanese company had enough of every chemical compound of the correct purity for its manufacturing applications has become more difficult as the Chinese interruption in shipments has dragged on.
Chinese customs officials halted some shipments of raw rare earths to the United States and Europe from Oct. 18 to 28, after the Obama administration opened an investigation into whether China was violating international free trade rules with its green energy policies, including China's restrictions on rare earth exports. But the United States in particular mostly buys processed rare earth materials from China and Japan, and was little affected.
The resumption of shipments may not last long. China has cut its rare earth export quotas by 40 percent this year, to 30,300 tons. Industry executives estimate that only 3,000 to 4,000 tons worth of quota remain to be exercised this year, which means that shipments could stop again in several weeks and not resume until quotas are issued for 2011.
The Chinese government did not issue initial 2010 quotas until Dec. 31, 2009, but it has hinted that it will act sooner this year so as to allow time for exporters to make logistical arrangements for shipments to resume in early January.
China briefly resumed the processing of customs paperwork for rare earth exports three weeks ago, a day before a meeting in Hanoi of top Chinese and Vietnamese officials. But when that meeting went poorly, Chinese port officials prevented containers from being actually loaded aboard vessels regardless of whether the customs forms had been completed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); SONAR SYSTEMS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); SMARTPHONES (61%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (99%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



698 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; RED HOOK JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: 2 Idle Towers May Test the Wind's Power to Keep a Bit of Brooklyn Moving

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
About two years ago, Debra Salomon was on her way to the new Fairway market in Red Hook, Brooklyn, when she took a wrong turn and found herself on a windblown pier that had two 90-foot Eiffel-like towers rising into the sky for no apparent purpose.
Ms. Salomon quickly saw a purpose. She is a designer and teaches design at the City University of New York, and she has been interested in finding ways to economically adapt wind energy to individual buildings. So her mind took a turn of its own. 
''That looks like it should have a wind turbine on top of it,'' she remembers telling herself.
It must have been kismet because the towers, which once held up a water tank, happened to be on property owned by Greg O'Connell, a retired police detective who, among an eclectic range of enthusiasms, is curious about harnessing the power of wind. He was willing to let Ms. Salomon borrow the towers for her brainstorm.
The towers, it also turned out, were so situated that the muscular gusts blowing off Upper New York Bay were striking them at an average of 13.5 miles per hour, double the city's average wind speed and fit to spin the contoured blades of a small turbine consistently. The surrounding buildings were low, posing no obstructions to the wind.
Now Ms. Salomon, with a $12,500 grant from the city's Economic Development Corporation and the collaboration of a couple of start-up entrepreneurs, wants to build an experimental 15-foot-tall, butterfly-shaped turbine atop those towers. It would produce three kilowatts of electricity to power a charging station for electric cars, although the project's goal is to see whether the turbine could produce enough electricity -- she and her team predict 6,700 kilowatt-hours per year -- to steadily power the lobby, elevator and laundry room of a hypothetical small apartment building.
Ms. Salomon, a spirited woman of 57, does not think she is some Don Quixote, foolhardily tilting at windmills -- real as they are, in her case. She does not want to convert the entire city to wind. Not yet. But if the winds are fortunate (steady and powerful enough), she does envision a time when thousands of apartment houses, particularly taller ones facing stiff offshore breezes, will have rooftop turbines to reduce their dependence on electricity generated by oil, gas or coal.
''This will be a spark,'' she said. ''You can talk endlessly about renewable energy, but you have to start. How can we harness this in New York in an urban environment?''
Tall, soaring wind turbines are increasingly scattered on America's hillsides, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has long-range plans to build farms of giant pinwheels miles out in the Atlantic or on the New Jersey side of New York Harbor. But the field of small turbines that power individual buildings is still a barely explored technological frontier. Within the city itself, there are only a handful of small turbines.
Clusters of rooftop turbines in the Melrose section of the South Bronx and in the Brooklyn Navy Yard have failed to produce enough electricity to make them cost-effective for widespread adoption, said Steven Gitlin, vice president for marketing at AeroVironment Inc., the California firm that tested them. Russell Tencer, chief executive of Wind Products, which would furnish the Red Hook turbine, blames the uneven winds in the Bronx and Navy Yard locations for the poor results.
Still, with the prodding of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the Economic Development Corporation is exploring what opportunities are available in wind power. It is financing two other small turbine projects: one on Pier 42 on the Lower East Side that will also use Wind Products' technology and one in Hunts Point, in the South Bronx, that will be run by a firm called Urban Green Energy. The development corporation hopes that such technologies can generate jobs -- 13,000 ''green'' jobs over the next decade -- as well as electricity.
Indeed, central to Ms. Salomon's thinking is using the turbine in field research for a continuing-education class she teaches on clean energy at the New York City College of Technology.
She wants her students -- some of them in the building trades -- to learn the mechanics and practical hurdles involved in erecting turbines. One thing they have learned is that calibrating wind flow is an art as well as science.
''People think if it's windy you can put a turbine there,'' said Maureen Cauthen, 47, of Brighton Beach, who took Ms. Salomon's course because of her interest in a career in wind and solar energy. ''There can be too much wind, or the wind is not straightforward, or there are obstacles it has to go through.''
Often a bigger challenge is bureaucratic: getting proper government permits. The Red Hook turbine cannot be mounted atop the towers until the project receives a permit from the city's Department of Buildings, which is still developing standards for rooftop turbines.
The turbine prototype would be machined by a company in Kingston, N.Y., said Cullen Kasunic, a vice president of Wind Products, which has raised $700,000 in private capital and also received a $1 million grant to develop wind turbines from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. The installation itself would done by AeonSolar, a solar-energy firm run by another instructor at City Tech, Robert Ashmore.
But Ms. Salomon is the spark plug. She started out in Cleveland with the idea of becoming a painter. Later she branched into design. To her, fossil fuels are simply a ''bad design.'' Now she hopes to find out whether a small wind turbine is a practical design.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Debra Salomon, a designer, joined up with Cullen Kasunic, left, whose firm is developing wind turbines, and Robert Ashmore, who has a solar energy firm, to pursue a wind-energy project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATE GLICKSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (63%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (61%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



699 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Opt-Out Illusion

 BODY:
Texas and several other states are flirting with the idea of dropping out of the Medicaid program and trying to shift most of the burden of providing health insurance for the poor to the federal government.
The idea appears to be driven at least as much by ideology as economics: Republicans' fierce opposition to President Obama's health care reform and their insistence that state budgets can be balanced solely by cutting services, like Medicaid, rather than raising taxes.
The idea originated with analysts at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization based in Washington. They argue that many states would be irresponsible not to drop Medicaid in 2014 and direct poor residents to buy commercial insurance on new competitive insurance exchanges, where they would receive generous federal subsidies. A Heritage analyst believes that 40 states and the District of Columbia could save money this way and estimated that Texas could save $46.5 billion between 2014 and 2019. 
That may sound great. Even assuming it is legal -- a big question -- at the core, this would amount to a shell game. It may save money for some state budgets but only by driving up costs for the federal budget and for the poor enrollees, who would have to pay more for commercial policies even with the federal subsidies.
And for all of the me-firstism out there, state taxpayers need to remember that they are also federal taxpayers. Even if their state drops Medicaid, they will continue to pay taxes that support the subsidies in the insurance exchanges and Medicaid programs in other states.
There is no question that Medicaid is badly straining many state budgets. And state leaders need to do a lot more to make their systems more efficient and reduce waste and abuse. The burden, and the need for reform, will undeniably grow under health care reform because the states will have to enroll many adults not previously covered and allow people with somewhat higher incomes to enroll.
The federal government, however, will pay for most of that increase -- 100 percent of the cost for newly eligible enrollees for three years and at least 90 percent ever after, as well as 90 percent of the added administrative expenses. Despite that largess, the Texas health agency estimates the state will have to spend $27 billion of its own money over a decade. Outside experts are skeptical of those numbers.
Before any more politicians get excited about the opt-out idea, they need to consider several basic issues.
First, none of these maneuvers will help states meet their current budget crises. The exchanges won't exist until 2014, by which time state revenues will probably have picked up.
Even more important, no one seems certain whether the federal government can even legally pick up the Medicaid burden, or would be willing to. One provision of the reform law indicates that the poorest people on Medicaid -- those earning less than the federal poverty level -- could not receive subsidies on the exchanges; a separate table implies that they might be eligible. If that issue is not clarified by federal officials, it may have to be resolved in the courts or Congress.
Large numbers of people, mainly low-income elderly and disabled patients who need long-term care services, would not be eligible to buy insurance on the exchanges. These are the two most expensive groups to cover, and the cost of their care would fall solely on the state. It is conceivable that a state with small enrollments of these groups might be able to shoulder the whole burden; states with big enrollments ought to be wary about relinquishing federal matching funds.
Medicaid is also so intertwined with multiple parts of the health care system that political leaders will need to be wary about harming a wide range of medical institutions that depend on Medicaid reimbursements.
Despite all of the campaign rhetoric, there are no easy fixes out there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (77%); POLITICS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



700 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: 3-Mile Bypass Planned for Leaky New York Aqueduct

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
New York City plans to build a three-mile-long tunnel to divert water from a leaking aqueduct that carries from the Catskills about half of the city's drinking water, officials announced on Friday.
The tunnel, to be built under the Hudson River and parts of Dutchess and Orange Counties, will address a problem that has daunted the city since leaks were first discovered in the Delaware Aqueduct in 1988: some 15 million to 35 million gallons of water, coming down from the Catskills, have been escaping daily through cracks.
The tunnel will bypass the worst of two leaks, said Caswell F. Holloway, the city's environmental commissioner. Construction work is expected to begin in 2013 and be completed by 2019 at a cost of about $1.2 billion, officials with the city's Department of Environmental Protection said. Officials said that cost, spread out over nine years, was built into the department's capital program. 
For years, the city has faced criticism for its long delays in stanching leaks in two sections of a 45-mile stretch of the aqueduct known as the Rondout-West Branch tunnel, in Orange and Ulster Counties. The cracks in that branch, which was completed in 1944, have caused chronic flooding in the Ulster hamlet of Wawarsing.
Environmental groups accused New York City of dragging its feet, and a 2007 report by the state comptroller criticized city officials for failing to ''adequately monitor the extent and nature of the leaks'' and to establish ''an adequate plan to protect the public in the event of a sudden or imminent substantial loss of water.''
New York City officials countered that they faced a challenge in identifying a way to halt the leaks while enabling them to get enough water to the city. Studies of the problem have involved sending robotic vehicles and deep-sea divers into the aqueduct in recent years to inspect and photograph the cracks.
Their plan calls for constructing a bypass tunnel at depths of 600 to 800 feet from Newburgh, in Orange County, under the Hudson to Wappinger, in Dutchess County. The aqueduct will be shut down for eight months to a year beginning in 2018, to allow workers to connect the tunnel in the last phase of the project.
''We've settled on a design for a fix, and we're moving ahead doing that design and taking steps to address the leak,'' Mr. Holloway said in an interview.
The leaking portion of the aqueduct would then be sealed and its use discontinued, the officials said.
During the shutdown, engineers will also enter the aqueduct to repair smaller leaks at Wawarsing from inside the tunnel, the officials said.
The 85-mile-long aqueduct, among the world's largest, is one of two systems bringing water from upstate reservoirs to eight million residents in New York City and another one million people in Orange, Putnam, Ulster and Westchester Counties. The other is the Catskill system.
The shutdown will require lining up other sources for the 500 million gallons of water that the Delaware Aqueduct carries each day from the Rondout Reservoir in the Catskills. About 290 million gallons would come from the New Croton Aqueduct in Westchester County, which is now used only as a backup water source until a filtration plant in the Bronx is completed in 2012.
The city plans to spend another $900 million in water supply projects to make up for the loss of the aqueduct during construction. It has already spent more than $300 million to prepare for long-term repairs of the aqueduct, as well as better monitoring of tunnel conditions and repair methods.
Designed to last at least a century, the aqueduct's troubled Rondout-West Branch section, which reaches depths of up to 1,200 feet, developed leaks a few decades after its completion. In the Wawarsing area, the tunnel has cracked along a 500-foot stretch. At Roseton, officials said, the cracks run along 5,000 feet.
Mr. Holloway said the leaks had penetrated the tunnel's concrete lining but were also found in areas where the branch passed through limestone, which is softer and more vulnerable to water corrosion than the harder rock of sandstone and shale found elsewhere in the tunnel's path.
But the commissioner said monitoring showed that the amount of water leaking had not increased since 2002 and did not pose the risk of an emergency, like a collapse. ''We don't see a substantial risk of this getting worse,'' he said.
In a statement on Friday, the Ulster County administrator, Michael P. Hein, called the plan ''a real and substantive solution.''
''In light of the hardships being encountered by the residents of Wawarsing, time is clearly of the essence,'' he said, adding that the bypass ''will not only eliminate the problem for the residents of Wawarsing, it will have profound economic benefit to our area through job creation.''
Paul Gallay, executive director of Riverkeeper, said the plan was a sensible approach. ''It's a big investment in solving a big problem,'' he said, adding that the city should also move to compensate homeowners affected by the leaks for damages suffered.
Mr. Holloway said that other solutions, like bypassing the entire Rondout tunnel altogether, had been considered, but that the idea was dismissed as unnecessary.
''We know where the leaks are and why,'' he said.
Another possibility was to drain the aqueduct for a longer time to repair it from within, but that raised uncertainty about how long the aqueduct would be out of service.
''You want to know how long the water is going to be off so you know where the supplemental water is going to come from,'' Mr. Holloway said, adding, ''It's absolutely critical to get it right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Working on the Rondout-West Branch Tunnel of the Delaware Aqueduct in 1942. Cracks have caused flooding in Wawarsing, N.Y., in Ulster County. (A13)
 Meant to last a century, the Rondout-West Branch tunnel leaked just decades after its completion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION) (A16) GRAPHICS: Repairing the Leaks: Leaks in the Delaware Aqueduct, which delivers much of New York City's water, will be bypassed by a parallel tunnel in a six-year project that could start in 2013. Added supplies from other projects will help make up for losses from a year-long shutdown necessary to connect old and new sections. (GRAPHICS BY NEW YORK GIS VIA GOOGLE EARTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); ROBOTICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



701 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Even With Prevention, H.I.V. To Spread in South Africa

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK

 BODY:
DAVEYTON, South Africa -- South Africa, already home to 5.7 million H.I.V.-positive people, more than any other nation, can expect an additional five million to become infected during the next two decades even if the nation more than doubles its already considerable financing for treatment and prevention and gives prevention a higher priority, according to a report presented here Friday to the country's leading advisory body on AIDS policy.
South Africa has far and away the continent's leading economy, but the study concludes that it nevertheless faces a ''major and mounting financial challenge'' to confront its AIDS problem, explaining that about $102 billion will need to be spent over the next 20 years merely to keep the number of new infections at the projected five million mark. 
''The government doesn't seem to have their heads around the numbers yet, and they are going to have to do some thinking out of the box,'' Teresa Guthrie, an economist and one of the report's authors, said in an interview. ''It's not an encouraging picture.''
Actually, South Africa is in the midst of a rapid expansion of its AIDS programs, attempting to overcome years of denial and delay when former President Thabo Mbeki questioned whether H.I.V. caused AIDS. He suggested that antiretroviral drugs were harmful, and his health minister recommended remedies of beet root and garlic.
Last year, the nation spent $2.1 billion on AIDS, according to the report, though about a third of that came from international donors, including $620 million from the United States.
''We would argue that the donors really need to stay with this, and the next five years are absolutely critical,'' said Robert Hecht, another of the report's authors.
The government itself requested the study, which is called ''The Long-Run Costs and Financing of H.I.V./AIDS in South Africa.'' It was done by the Center for Economic Governance and AIDS in Africa, based in Cape Town, and the Results for Development Institute, based in Washington.
Mr. Hecht, a managing director of the institute, presented the findings at a meeting of the South African National AIDS Council, a group that includes leaders from both the government and civil society.
None of the government officials at the meeting were willing to comment on the report, but Mark Heywood, the council's deputy chairman and executive director of the AIDS Law Project, which is based in Johannesburg, said later that he was ''gravely concerned'' about the numbers cited.
''I found it all difficult to accept,'' he said. ''Our prevention strategy was such a mess for such a long time that I felt sure we could bring down infection rates at a faster pace now that we're working at it.''
Mr. Heywood said he did not know where any extra financing would come from. ''I think the budget is strained already,'' he said.
In the past year, the government has widely increased treatment with antiretroviral drugs and begun a campaign for counseling and testing. The report said it needed to go much further, emphasizing male circumcision, which has been shown to decrease by more than 50 percent the rate of contracting H.I.V., and the promotion of condom use.
''Things are still not being done fast enough and broadly enough,'' Mr. Hecht said. ''The big, looming, difficult problem to crack is the general adult population and the millions of people with multiple partners and overlapping relationships. That's the big challenge for South Africa.''
In South Africa, with a population of 49 million, an estimated 350,000 to 500,000 new infections occur annually, depending on the estimate. With enough money and better programs, that number could gradually be brought down to 200,000 a year, Mr. Hecht said. This can be accomplished, the report said, by 2020.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); ANTIVIRALS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); AIDS POLICY (71%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (78%) SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



702 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Incivility Can Have Costs Beyond Hurt Feelings

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
COURTESY means a lot to me. I am keenly aware when someone fails to say please or thank you. Waiters or clerks who ignore me or respond snippily do so at their peril. My children know well my glare when they fail to give their bus or subway seat to an elderly person.
But, as we're all aware, the 21st century has brought with it new variations on rudeness. Answering texts during a luncheon. Tapping on BlackBerrys instead of listening to a speaker -- or a child's recital. Shooting off hostile e-mail anonymously.
But is this decline in manners real? And when considering this, should we separate the outward symbols of politeness from general civility? 
It's a complicated but important issue that has a surprising economic impact. Christine Pearson, a professor of management at Thunderbird School of Global Management in Arizona, said her research over the last decade had shown that many workers left jobs because of continuing incivility but rarely reported that as the reason.
More on this later. But to backtrack a little: is civility, whether in the workplace, on the street or at home, really on a rapid downhill slide?
''We are both ruder and more civil than in times gone by,'' said Pier M. Forni, a professor of Italian literature at Johns Hopkins University and also co-founder of the university's Civility Initiative.
Professor Forni gives the example of the pregnant woman. ''Fewer people may give up their seat on the bus for her, which shows a decline in civility,'' he said. ''But when she steps into the workplace, the number of people who take her seriously is much higher than in my father's time.
''We are more accepting of people who look different and the disabled, and we have a higher ecological awareness,'' Professor Forni said. But he also acknowledged that what we classically think of as courtesy is on the decline. This ranges from a certain deference to authority and age to graciously allowing someone to merge into your lane of traffic.
Of course, manners change over time. After all, few men kiss a woman's hand when meeting her nowadays. And we all, to some extent, draw our own lines on what constitutes polite behavior. My husband and I don't want our children's friends to address us by our last names. Yet I have some friends who insist on it.
But to dismiss signs of courtesy as mere symbols and to argue that what matters is not the outward trappings misses the point, said Richard Boyd, an associate professor of government at Georgetown University.
''To fail to be civil to someone -- to treat them harshly, rudely or condescendingly -- is not only to be guilty of bad manners,'' he wrote in a 2006 article, ''The Value of Civility?'' for the journal Urban Studies. ''It also, and more ominously, signals a disdain or contempt for them as moral beings. Treating someone rudely, brusquely or condescendingly says loudly and clearly that you do not regard her as your equal.''
Or to use an example Professor Forni offered: when a mother corrects her son for chewing with his mouth open, and tells him people don't like looking at half-chewed food, ''she has given him a rule of table manners, but also a fundamental notion of all ethical principles -- actions have consequences for others. Good manners are the training wheels of altruism.''
Professor Boyd said he saw signs of declining courtesy but warned against comparing today against some mythical past.
''People always say things are getting worse, but I'm not sure it's true,'' he said. ''And even if there's something to today's complaints about increasing rudeness and incivility, you have to put these in the broader context of a longstanding tradition of critics of American manners.''
He referred to the 1832 classic ''Domestic Manners of the Americans,'' by the Englishwoman Frances Trollope. To wit: '' I hardly know any annoyance so deeply repugnant to English feelings, as the incessant, remorseless spitting of Americans.'' She critiques American men ''who eat with the greatest possible rapidity and in total silence,'' and schoolchildren's ''constant talking and running from one part of the room to another.''
But Professor Boyd agreed that one difference is the rapid growth of technology, particularly the Internet and cellphones
Alex J. Packer, author of ''How Rude!: The Teenager's Guide to Good Manners'' (Free Spirit Publishing, 1997), went further. ''I would be the first to say that there has been an absolute collapse of civility in the past generation or two,'' Mr. Packer said. ''So much of communications is once removed that it adds a layer of distance and anonymity that can only worsen manners.''
Professor Forni, who also wrote ''The Civility Solution: What to Do When People are Rude,'' (St. Martin's Press, 2008), noted that the major causes of incivility were anonymity, stress, lack of time, lack of restraint and insecurity.
And we're certainly seeing greater stress and more ability to lash out anonymously through the Internet and texting. ''The more volatile the mixture, the more uncivil we become,'' Professor Forni said.
One answer is to start addressing the issue of manners on the Internet at a young age. South Korean children, for example, learn ''Netiquette,'' in school, which includes a song with lyrics like, ''Use polite words in a cordial way'' and ''I am the Internet guardian angel.''
Now, back to the price of incivility -- Professor Pearson, who co-wrote, with Christine Porath, ''The Cost of Bad Behavior'' (Penguin Portfolio, 2009), found through research among about 9,000 managers and workers that incivility was rampant on the job.
''We defined it as the low end of disregard and dysfunction in the workplace -- being rude, such as ignoring request for help, ignoring a colleague when passing in the hall, gossiping behind colleagues' backs, borrowing supplies without asking,'' she said.
I think we've all, ahem, been guilty of some of those actions. But, Professor Pearson said, her work focused on people who did this consistently, sneakily and toward people they felt could not -- or would not -- punish them.
Here are some statistics from her research: 60 percent of disrespectful behavior came from above, 20 percent from colleagues on the same level and 20 percent from below. And half said they decreased their effort on the job after experiencing ongoing rude behavior. Professor Pearson said that could mean that the workers did not put in the extra effort they otherwise might have, or that they worked strictly to their job description, or even that they slacked off.
There are solutions, although they are not easy. ''First, leaders can put something into their orientation code or credo that they expect employees to be treated with respect,'' Professor Pearson said. ''It's amazing how many expect their employees to treat customers with respect and how few worry about how their colleagues treat each other.''
Most important, she said, people at the top have to be willing to model civility, discipline those who act badly and be consistent -- that is, not let someone considered a superstar get away with rudeness.
Good manners, as any etiquette expert would say, involve rules, but not strictly adhering to them. I always liked the probably apocryphal tale of a guest who arrived in shirtsleeves at an English country house where everyone was wearing dinner jackets.
What did the host do to remedy the situation? Offer a jacket to the abashed guest? No, he removed his own jacket.
Now that's civility.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The stepped-up, always-on pace of the 21st century has taken a toll on etiquette and common civility. Some research suggests that rude behavior in the workplace can lead to resentment, even to slacking off. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); LITERATURE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



703 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Hiding From Reality

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
However you want to define the American dream, there is not much of it that's left anymore.
Wherever you choose to look -- at the economy and jobs, the public schools, the budget deficits, the nonstop warfare overseas -- you'll see a country in sad shape. Standards of living are declining, and American parents increasingly believe that their children will inherit a very bad deal.
We're in denial about the extent of the rot in the system, and the effort that would be required to turn things around. It will likely take many years, perhaps a decade or more, to get employment back to a level at which one could fairly say the economy is thriving. 
Consider this startling information from the Pew Hispanic Center: in the year following the official end of the Great Recession in June 2009, foreign-born workers in the U.S. gained 656,000 jobs while native-born workers lost 1.2 million. But even as the hiring of immigrants picked up during that period, those same workers ''experienced a sharp decline in earnings.''
What this shows is not that we should discriminate against foreign-born workers, but that the U.S. needs to develop a full-employment economy that provides jobs for all who want to work at pay that enables the workers and their families to enjoy a decent standard of living. In other words, a resurrection of the American dream.
Right now, nothing close to that is happening.
The human suffering in the years required to recover from the recession will continue to be immense. And that suffering will only be made worse if the nation embarks on a misguided crash program of deficit reduction that in the short term will undermine any recovery, and in the long term will make true deficit reduction that much harder to achieve.
The wreckage from the recession and the nation's mindlessly destructive policies in the years leading up to the recession is all around us. We still don't have the money to pay for the wars that we insist on fighting year after year. We have neither the will nor the common sense to either raise taxes to pay for the wars, or stop fighting them.
State and local governments, faced with fiscal nightmares, are reducing services, cutting their work forces, hacking away at health and pension benefits, and raising taxes and fees. So far it hasn't been enough, so there is more carnage to come. In many cases, the austerity measures are punishing some of the most vulnerable people, including children, the sick and the disabled.
For all the talk about the need to improve the public schools and get rid of incompetent teachers, school systems around the country are being hammered with dreadful cutbacks and teachers are being let go in droves, not because they are incompetent, but strictly for budget reasons. There was a time when the United States understood the importance of educating its young people and led the way in compulsory public schooling. It also built the finest higher education system in the world. Now, although no one will admit it publicly, we've decided to go in another direction.
In New York City, for example, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's choice to run the public school system is Cathleen Black, a wealthy corporate executive with no background in education whose children attended expensive private schools. Mr. Bloomberg has asserted that Ms. Black's management expertise will be a boon to the city's public school children. But the truth is that Ms. Black, if she gets a necessary waiver for her new job, will be presiding over budget cuts that can only hurt the schools. As part of a proposed austerity budget, the mayor is planning to eliminate the jobs of thousands of public school teachers over the next two years. Take that, kids.
We've become a hapless, can't-do society, and it's, frankly, embarrassing. Public figures talk endlessly about ''transformative changes'' in public education, but the years go by and we see no such thing. Politicians across the spectrum insist that they are all about job creation while the employment situation in the real world remains beyond pathetic.
All we are good at is bulldozing money to the very wealthy. No wonder the country is in such a deep slide.
We don't even seem to realize how deep a hole we're in. If student test scores jumped a couple of points or the jobless rate fell by a point and half, the politicians and the news media would crow as if something great had been achieved. That's how people behave when they're in denial.
America will never get its act together until we recognize how much trouble we're really in, and how much effort and shared sacrifice is needed to stop the decline. Only then will we be able to begin resuscitating the dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); TAX INCREASES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



704 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: 2 Experts Say North Korea Is Building A Reactor

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- New satellite images of a North Korean nuclear site and a recent visit to the North by two American experts suggest that North Korea has started work on a new reactor. 
The Institute for Science and International Security, a nuclear research group in Washington, said it had obtained photographs showing ''construction activity at the site of the destroyed cooling tower for the disabled reactor'' at Yongbyon.
Charles L. Pritchard, a former special envoy for negotiations with North Korea who is the president of the Korea Economic Institute, a policy group, toured the Yongbyon site during a five-day trip to North Korea this month. He said he was told by North Korean officials that they were building an experimental light-water reactor.
Mr. Pritchard was accompanied by Siegfried S. Hecker, emeritus director of the Los Alamos Nuclear Laboratory. Mr. Hecker told the security institute that ''the new construction seen in the satellite imagery is indeed the construction of the experimental light-water reactor.''
Light-water reactors are typically used to generate electricity for civilian purposes and are considered relatively safe in terms of proliferation risks. Experts at the institute estimated that a new reactor with a capacity of about 30 megawatts would require several tons of low-enriched uranium to start up, and another ton every year as ''reloads.''
''These values could vary depending on the design of the reactor and whether it will be optimized for electricity production or weapon-grade plutonium production for weapons,'' the security institute said in a report.
The new structure -- reinforced concrete foundations and a steel frame -- was still in its early stages. The expected completion date would probably be before April 15, 2012, the 100th anniversary of the birth of Kim Il-sung, the founding president of the North Korean state.
The South Korean Defense Ministry declined on Friday to comment on the reports.
North Korea demolished the cooling tower at its five-megawatt gas-graphite reactor at the Yongbyon complex in 2008 as part of a denuclearization agreement. That accord was reached through the so-called six-nation talks with South Korea, China, Russia, Japan and the United States.
The old Yongbyon reactor, which had been used to produce plutonium, remains inoperative, according to Mr. Pritchard, who met with North Korea's chief nuclear envoy, Kim Kye-gwan, and the chief diplomat for United States affairs, Ri Gun. Mr. Pritchard has briefed American and South Korean officials about his trip.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



705 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Buyout Giant Is Said to Have Its Eye on Del Monte Again

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
In 1989, after the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company closed its landmark $25 billion buyout of the food and cigarette giant RJR Nabisco, it swiftly moved to sell its food brands. Among the first sales was Del Monte, which K.K.R. offloaded to a group of private investors. 
More than two decades later, Del Monte is back on the private equity carousel, and K.K.R. is interested in scooping the company back up.
The firm is in talks to buy the Del Monte Foods Company, the maker of Kibbles 'n Bits and Snausages, say people close to the discussions. A deal could be reached over the next month, but it could also fall apart, these people warned.
Shares of Del Monte closed up 11.5 percent, to $17.51, giving the company a market value of roughly $3.4 billion. Including debt, Del Monte has an enterprise value of nearly $4.4 billion. DealReporter, a publication owned by The Financial Times, first reported on the possibility of a deal.
A spokeswoman for Del Monte, which is based in San Francisco, said the company did not comment on market rumors or speculation.
Though Del Monte brings to mind canned corn and sliced peaches, today some of its fastest-growing and most powerful brands are in the pet food category. A decade ago, Del Monte was not even in the pet business. Now roughly half of its estimated $3.7 billion in annual sales comes from pet products, an area it has expanded through acquisitions.
In 2006, for instance, Del Monte acquired Meow Mix Holdings from a private equity firm, and Milk-Bone dog biscuits from Kraft Foods.
''Del Monte is a much more attractive company than it was five years ago,'' said Timothy S. Ramey, an analyst with D. A. Davidson & Company. ''The change in the business mix to pet foods and pet snacks makes the company a better growth vehicle with much higher profit margins.''
Del Monte no longer has a connection to Fresh Del Monte Produce, a publicly traded company based in Coral Gables, Fla., known for its bananas and pineapples.
This would be K.K.R.'s second pet-related acquisition of the year. In January the firm bought Pets at Home, a British retailer, for about $1.5 billion.
A takeover of Del Monte -- which would rank among the larger buyouts this year -- would demonstrate the recovery in private equity deals as corporate credit markets have roared back since the financial crisis.
K.K.R. could find that its competitors are also interested in Del Monte. Private equity firms, which are sitting on billions of dollars in cash, have long coveted food businesses for their relatively stable cash flows, against which companies can borrow lots of debt.
Indeed, back in 1997, the buyout shop TPG, when it was known as the Texas Pacific Group, acquired Del Monte from the group that bought it from Kohlberg Kravis. TPG owned the company for several years before taking it public and selling its stake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD MFG (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PET FOODS (89%); PETS (87%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (94%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (93%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%); D A DAVIDSON & CO (65%); FRESH DEL MONTE PRODUCE INC (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (53%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (94%); FDP (NYSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (93%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (93%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (93%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (58%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (58%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (58%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



706 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Unions Yield On Pay Scales To Keep Jobs

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- Organized labor appears to be losing an important battle in the Great Recession.
Even at manufacturing companies that are profitable, union workers are reluctantly agreeing to tiered contracts that create two levels of pay.
In years past, two-tiered systems were used to drive down costs in hard times, but mainly at companies already in trouble. And those arrangements, at the insistence of the unions, were designed, in most cases, to expire in a few years.
Now, the managers of some marquee companies are aiming to make this concession permanent. If they are successful, their contracts could become blueprints for other companies in other cities, extending a wage system that would be a startling retreat for labor.
Though union officials said they could not readily supply data on the practice, managers have been trying to achieve this for 30 years, with limited results. The recent auto crisis brought a two-tier system to General Motors and Chrysler. Delphi, the big parts maker, also has one now. Caterpillar, back in 2006, signed such a contract with the United Automobile Workers. 
The arrangement was a fairly common means of shrinking labor costs in the recession of the early 1980s. At the end of the contracts, however, wages generally snapped back up to a single tier. At G.M., Chrysler, Delphi and Caterpillar, the wages will not be snapping back.
Nor will that happen for workers at three big manufacturers here in southeastern Wisconsin -- where 15 percent of the work force is in manufacturing, a bigger proportion than any other state. These employers -- Harley-Davidson, Mercury Marine and Kohler -- have all but succeeded in the last year or so in erecting two-tier systems that could last well into a recovery.
''This is absolutely a surrender for labor,'' said Mike Masik Sr., the union leader at Harley-Davidson, the motorcycle maker, not even trying to paper over the defeat. His union recently accepted a new contract that freezes wages for existing workers for most of its seven years, lowers pay for new hires, dilutes benefits and brings temporary workers to the assembly line at even lower pay and no benefits whenever there is a rise in demand for Harley's roaring bikes.
When the proposal was put to a vote recently, Harley's blue-collar employees, most of whom belong to the powerful United Steelworkers, approved it by a decisive 53 percent to 47 percent.
Just up the highway, Mercury Marine, which makes outboard motors and marine engines, has a similar agreement with its factory workers. And the Kohler Company, another manufacturing giant in southeastern Wisconsin, famed for its gleaming bathroom fixtures, is negotiating a contract using Harley's pact as a template and, so far, getting much of its way.
''The simple economic fact is that we overproduced and now we have to burn off the excess,'' Matthew S. Levatich, president and chief operating officer of Harley-Davidson, said in an interview, speaking in effect for all three manufacturers. ''You could say,'' he added, ''that the new contract is a recognition of this truth on the part of our workers.''
Nowhere else in the country has quite so tough a contract emerged at companies that are profitable, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. says.
''Management clearly has the upper hand in negotiations because of the employment situation,'' Milwaukee's mayor, Tom Barrett, said.
Mr. Barrett ran as the Democratic candidate for governor in the Nov. 2 election, losing to Scott Walker, a Republican in a state that usually votes Democratic. In interviews, several blue-collar workers said they had voted Democratic in 2008 and switched to Republican this time -- mimicking the blue-collar political shift throughout the Midwest -- because the Obama administration, in their view, had failed so far to help them.
The breakthrough labor agreements reflect this antipathy. They capitalize on a particularly difficult set of circumstances for blue-collar workers. In response to falling demand, the big manufacturers here have cut production and laid off thousands of employees. Many people lost jobs that had paid $22 an hour or more. Few can get work that pays as well, if they can get steady work at all, given an unemployment rate of nearly 8 percent in the area. That makes holding a job a higher priority than holding the line on pay and benefits, much less pushing for improvements, Mr. Masik said.
Increasing the pressure, Harley-Davidson and Mercury Marine, a unit of the Brunswick Corporation, publicly declared that they would move factory operations to lower-cost American cities -- Stillwater, Okla., for example, or Kansas City, Mo. -- if the unions failed to accept the concessions set forth in remarkably similar contracts. One provision denies laid-off or furloughed workers their old pay if they are called back; they must return as second-tier employees, earning $5 to $15 an hour less.
Mercury Marine's nearly 900 hourly workers voted last fall to reject such terms, but a few days later, they voted again and accepted them. They reversed course after the company announced that its headquarters factory, in nearby Fond du Lac, would be closed and operations consolidated in Stillwater. The Stillwater factory is now being closed instead.
Kohler officials have stopped just short of saying that they, too, will go elsewhere. They declare that if their proposals are not accepted, then ''it would be very difficult and challenging for us to sustain manufacturing operations'' in Sheboygan County, including those in the town of Kohler, 50 miles north of here, named for the family that founded and still dominates the company.
The alternative for the workers is to strike, thus challenging the companies in their stated determination to relocate -- in effect, calling their bluff. The International Association of Machinists at Mercury Marine and the United Steelworkers at Harley-Davidson declined to take that risk, and so has the U.A.W. at Kohler, so far.
The workers themselves are convinced, their union leaders say, that the companies are prepared to move factories from the Milwaukee area, where all three came to life decades ago.
''The company stuck to its agenda,'' Mr. Masik said of the Harley negotiations, his voice rising, ''and we ended up accepting their agenda.''
Harley-Davidson actually has two very similar new contracts, one with the Machinists, who represent workers at an assembly plant in York, Pa.; the other with the Steelworkers at an engine-and-transmission factory in Greater Milwaukee. The York agreement, ratified last year and now in effect, has shrunk the core work force there by more than half, to nearly 800 full-timers, while adding 300 ''casual'' employees, who are union members without benefits.
The Milwaukee agreement, recently ratified, will shrink the full-time payroll to 900 from 1,250 today and more than 1,600 before the recession. Up to 250 ''casuals,'' as in York, will be used to handle surges in demand for Harley bikes. While hourly pay under the current contract averages $31 an hour, that drops to $25 for the second tier, which becomes the only tier once all the veterans have left or retired. Casuals, in contrast, get $18.50 an hour.
The new Milwaukee contract kicks in when the current agreement expires on March 31, 2012. The union balked at negotiating so far in advance, Mr. Masik said, but conceded after the company insisted it would otherwise use the intervening months to prepare to move operations elsewhere, perhaps Kansas City. To guarantee support, Harley also incorporated into the contract $12,000 bonuses for its steelworkers, including those laid off.
Harley's president said the recession left no choice but to reorganize. Motorcycle sales are down 40 percent from their peak in 2006, Mr. Levatich said. Cutting the core staff allows Harley to slow the line during the winter months of lean demand and add ''casuals'' when demand picks up in the spring and summer.
''What we are doing is not mean-spirited,'' Mr. Levatich insisted. ''We have to retool if we want to survive. We should have started doing this, in small steps, 20 years ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matthew Levatich, president of Harley-Davidson, left, and Bill Peek, owner of Heart of Dixie Harley-Davidson in Pelham, Ala. At right, Mike Masik Sr., president of United Steelworkers local 2-209. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SMALL ENGINE MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MOTORCYCLES (69%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (64%)

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (86%); KOHLER CO (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (86%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (86%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (83%); SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



707 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: No Threats Here, Firms Tell the U.S.

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Leading money managers and mutual funds have a message for Washington: We may be big - but we aren't too big to fail.
The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law requires the newly created Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify specific nonbank financial firms - mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity shops - that pose a systemic risk to the financial system. Big bank holding companies like Citigroup and Goldman Sachs have already been designated as ''systemically important.'' The council has begun looking at nonbank financial firms and will propose criteria by next year.
For those nonbank firms, it is a bit of a scarlet letter to be tagged as ''systemically important.'' They will face greater scrutiny and regulation from the Federal Reserve. There could be risks for taxpayers, too: some regulatory lawyers say they are concerned that the designation will be an implicit guarantee of future bailouts. 
In public letters and private conversations, financial firms and their trade groups are arguing that because they use little or no leverage - or borrowed money - they do not pose a risk to the financial system. During the financial crisis, companies like Lehman Brothers ran into trouble because many of their investments were made on borrowed money, magnifying losses when those assets fell in value.
Some companies recently took the leverage argument to the oversight council, while BlackRock's general counsel and chief lobbyist met Nov. 4 with Federal Reserve officials, according to Fed disclosure records. The meeting was reported this week by Bloomberg News.
The BlackRock representatives told the Fed officials, ''Unlike a bank, an asset management company acts as an agent for its clients and does not hold investment assets on its own balance sheet,'' according to the records posted on the Fed's Web site.
''It's a good argument, and if I were in their situation, that's the argument I would be making,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution who specializes in financial regulatory issues. ''Leverage clearly has an effect in how dangerous you are.''
In a letter to the oversight council, which is led by the Treasury secretary,Timothy F. Geithner, executives for Vanguard warned, ''Efforts to identify any entity that could impose any degree of systemic risk will be overwhelming and fruitless, and could cause the council to miss the next systemically risky actor that threatens the markets.''
The case for leverage as the main criterion favors asset managers like BlackRock. Surprisingly, however, it is also an argument used by hedge funds, a group that is often associated with using leverage.
''Though hedge funds are often mischaracterized as being highly leveraged financial institutions, the industry is, and has been, significantly less leveraged than other financial market participants,''Richard H. Baker, the president and chief executive of the Managed Fund Association, a hedge fund trade group, wrote in a letter to the council.
This lack of leverage, among other factors, should ''substantially reduce the likelihood that the failure of a hedge fund would have systemic implications,'' Mr. Baker said.
Mr. Elliott, once an investment banker for JPMorgan Chase, said that leverage was just one factor in the systemic risk equation. ''Size does matter,'' Mr. Elliott said, adding that it also is important to determine how risky a company's business is and whether it is intertwined with other institutions. Some companies made similar arguments when appealing to the council and the Fed.
Mr. Elliott added that the council should tread lightly as it chooses which institutions to focus on. ''There's a moral hazard argument,'' he said. ''You don't want to go in and say that everyone is systemically significant. There is a chance you're setting up an institution to be viewed as too big to fail.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner leads a panel that will identify companies that merit greater attention from the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BLACKROCK INC (85%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BLK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (85%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



708 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Buy American? Upscale Investors Look Abroad

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Well-heeled American investors have been doing something lately that they resisted for decades -- becoming more like their European, Asian and Latin American counterparts and substantially diversifying their portfolios outside their home country.
There are two reasons for this. The financial crisis and the slow recovery showed them that the United States was not immune to devastating crashes of the kind that wealthy people in emerging markets have tried to hedge against by investing abroad. And second, American investors are worried that their portfolios are going to suffer for the foreseeable future, given the size of the United States' budget deficit, the weakness of the dollar and the uncertainty over the stock market.
''I've never seen a period in which clients have expressed such an interest in nondollar investments,'' said Kent Lucken, managing director at Citi Private Bank. ''People are spreading their chips around more prudently and I think more wisely.'' 
What is different is how directly these investors are going into non-American markets. They are not content with buying international equities or going into an international bond fund. They are looking to invest directly in Chinese private equity, Indian real estate, Brazilian equities denominated in reals and Australian government bonds. They are also opening cash accounts in multiple currencies.
''International clients understand the need to diversify currencies, but this is something new to U.S. clients,'' said David Frame, global head of alternative investment at J. P. Morgan Private Bank.
The people putting as much as 40 percent of their portfolios into nondollar investments are quite wealthy. But consider it this way: What can investors of more modest means learn from what the wealthiest people in the country -- with the best research and advice at their disposal -- are doing with large portions of their fortunes?
UPSIDE Investors who lived through the 1990s will remember the crises in Asia, Mexico and Russia that shook global capital markets. Investing internationally has always carried risks and it is by no means without perils today.
But many investors see a different trade-off, one based as much on a stagnant or declining United States as on certain international markets that are growing, if not booming.
''When you make an investment in nondollar currencies, you're making two investments at once,'' said Tony Roth, head of investment strategies at UBS Wealth Management. ''You're betting the dollar will go down, but you're also buying another investment. You need to be compensated for that source of risk.''
He cited the example of buying a one-year Australian government bond, yielding 5.25 percent. He said he believed that the American dollar was going to lose value and the Australian dollar was going to gain it. That's Part 1. Part 2 is that the Australian government is stable, so an investor can count on receiving that 5 percent annual return. The alternative is less than half of a percent if invested in United States Treasuries.
''I'm going to receive a return,'' he said, ''that more than compensates me for the marginal risk I'm taking.''
But there are far more risky investments. And the ones that are less liquid -- infrastructure in China, say, or a private equity fund in Brazil -- carry more uncertainty. But like their equivalents in the United States, they provide a higher return, in theory.
Mr. Frame said clients were investing in Asian infrastructure and Asian private equity by pooling their money with other investors. ''There is a lot going on when a country is growing and developing that is hard to address through the public markets,'' he said.
While there's an obvious ''pull'' to international investments, there is also a bit of a ''push'' out of the United States: investors who are making their portfolios more international are doing so because they believe that the role of the United States in the global economy is shrinking.
Mr. Roth said the United States contributed 40 percent of global gross domestic product 15 years ago and now contributed 21 percent. He predicted that that figure would fall to 12 percent in another 15 years. Going along with this is the shrinking market capitalization of American stocks compared with global stocks.
''We have the U.S. experiencing flat to 2 percent G.D.P. growth, but you have Brazil, India and China with substantially higher rates,'' Mr. Lucken said. ''Equity investors are investing abroad to capture higher returns and invest ahead of higher growth rates.''
DOWNSIDE The biggest risk is uncertainty, followed by a lack of knowledge. No one knows exactly what is going to happen, and there are always investors who rush in too quickly without fully understanding the risks.
Those risks run the gamut from income inequality that could create unrest, to legal systems that have not been tested by foreign investors, to managers abroad without established track records.
There is also the unforeseen. ''I witnessed firsthand the collapse of the Soviet Union,'' said Mr. Lucken, a former foreign service officer. ''That speaks to the unique political risks in smaller developing countries.''
Also, South Korea and Brazil, which are now darlings of investors, were shaken by crises in the 1990s. ''The history of success has been relatively short -- the past 10, 12 years,'' said Christopher J. Wolfe, chief investment officer for the private banking and investment group at Merrill Lynch.
But Mr. Wolfe said clients were investing across all asset classes when they invested internationally and that gave them greater diversification. It is also a big change from the time when ''it used to be U.S. stocks and non-U.S. stocks,'' he said.
Like all big changes, there are going to be fits and starts. But after what investors lived through over the last three years at home, some are willing to chance it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE BANKING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); AUSTRALIA (91%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



709 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Debt Rising, A City Seeks Donations In Michigan

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A Michigan city is pleading with churches, schools and a hospital for donations to help cover its staggering budget deficit.
The mayor of Mount Clemens, Barb Dempsey, sent a letter this week to 35 tax-exempt organizations asking them to voluntarily contribute to the city's general fund, which pays for services like fire protection, streetlights and roads. Ms. Dempsey said the city has already drastically cut its expenses, having disbanded the police department six years ago, but still faces a $960,000 deficit that is projected to reach $1.5 million next year.
''Those are all services that they utilize at no cost to them,'' Ms. Dempsey said. ''We figured it can't hurt to send out letters. If you don't ask, you never know.'' 
Mount Clemens, about 25 miles northeast of Detroit, collects no taxes from 42 percent of the property within its borders. The 4.2-square-mile city has about 17,000 residents and is home to 26 churches, a hospital, several schools and the headquarters of Macomb County, the third largest in Michigan. If not exempt, the properties would pay at least $1.2 million, enough to wipe out the deficit, Ms. Dempsey said.
Plunging property values across Michigan have greatly reduced the revenue collected by municipalities, and tax caps hinder governments' abilities to demand more from businesses and residents. A proposal that would have allowed Mount Clemens to increase its tax rate was defeated this month by a little fewer than 500 votes.
Ms. Dempsey's unusual request came several days after Hamtramck, a city adjacent to Detroit, asked the state for permission to file for bankruptcy, something no Michigan government had ever done before. The departing governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, said she hoped to find an alternative for Hamtramck, but warned that many communities were nearing insolvency.
''You've got a perfect storm hitting many of these communities,'' Ms. Granholm told Michigan Radio, ''and this is an issue that's going to be very difficult over the next few years as the property taxes continue to decline, and communities all across the state are going to need some additional support if they're going to provide the services that citizens expect.''
Charles Ballard, a professor of economics at Michigan State University, said it could take 15 years or more for tax revenue to rebound to pre-recession levels, given the way that Michigan governments are now allowed to levy taxes, and simply begging for more money is unlikely to make up much of the gap.
''People usually don't pay a whole lot of taxes unless they have to,'' Dr. Ballard said. ''But it shows you the level of desperation that is in many units of government of Michigan.''
Some of those receiving the requests in Mount Clemens are grappling with budget shortfalls of their own. The Mount Clemens Community School District has laid off some employees, and the county is more than $24 million in the red next year.
But the First Presbyterian Church of Mount Clemens is ''blessed with having a surplus,'' said the Rev. Bill Davis, its pastor. The church gave $1,000 to the city about five years ago, when officials considered making a similar request, and it might make another gift now, pending the board's approval, he said.
''If we can help the city in a time of need we definitely should do that,'' Mr. Davis said. ''We need the city, and the city needs us. If we can help financially, I think that's right.''
Ms. Dempsey said she realizes some of the letters will be ignored, but hopes they at least raise awareness of the city's financial straits.
She also said just asking can make a difference. The city asked its retirees to increase their health insurance deductibles, Ms. Dempsey said, and 8 or 10 did so or switched to their spouse's plan, saving $192,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



710 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING MERGERS ACQUISITIONS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Kohlberg Kravis Said to Be in Talks With Del Monte

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
In 1989, after the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company closed its landmark $25 billion buyout of the food and cigarette giant RJR Nabisco, it swiftly moved to sell its food brands. Among the first sales was Del Monte, which K.K.R. offloaded to a group of private investors. 
More than two decades later, Del Monte is back on the private equity carousel, and K.K.R. is interested in scooping the company back up.
The firm is in talks to buy the Del Monte Foods Company, the maker of Kibbles 'n Bits and Snausages, say people close to the discussions. A deal could be reached over the next month, but it could also fall apart, these people warned.
Shares of Del Monte closed up 11.5 percent, to $17.51, giving the company a market value of roughly $3.4 billion. Including debt, Del Monte has an enterprise value of nearly $4.4 billion. DealReporter, a publication owned by The Financial Times, first reported on the possibility of a deal.
A spokeswoman for Del Monte, which is based in San Francisco, said the company did not comment on market rumors or speculation.
Though Del Monte brings to mind canned corn and sliced peaches, today some of its fastest-growing and most powerful brands are in the pet food category. A decade ago, Del Monte was not even in the pet business. Now roughly half of its estimated $3.7 billion in annual sales comes from pet products, an area it has expanded through acquisitions.
In 2006, for instance, Del Monte acquired Meow Mix Holdings from a private equity firm, and Milk-Bone dog biscuits from Kraft Foods.
''Del Monte is a much more attractive company than it was five years ago,'' said Timothy S. Ramey, an analyst with D. A. Davidson & Company. ''The change in the business mix to pet foods and pet snacks makes the company a better growth vehicle with much higher profit margins.''
Del Monte no longer has a connection to Fresh Del Monte Produce, a publicly traded company based in Coral Gables, Fla., known for its bananas and pineapples.
This would be K.K.R.'s second pet-related acquisition of the year. In January the firm bought Pets at Home, a British retailer, for about $1.5 billion.
A takeover of Del Monte - which would rank among the larger buyouts this year - would demonstrate the recovery in private equity deals as corporate credit markets have roared back since the financial crisis.
K.K.R. could find that its competitors are also interested in Del Monte. Private equity firms, which are sitting on billions of dollars in cash, have long coveted food businesses for their relatively stable cash flows, against which companies can borrow lots of debt.
Indeed, back in 1997, the buyout shop TPG, when it was known as the Texas Pacific Group, acquired Del Monte from the group that bought it from Kohlberg Kravis. TPG owned the company for several years before taking it public and selling its stake.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD MFG (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PET FOODS (89%); PETS (87%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (95%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (93%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%); D A DAVIDSON & CO (65%); FRESH DEL MONTE PRODUCE INC (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (53%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (95%); FDP (NYSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (93%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (93%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (93%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (58%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (58%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (58%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



711 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: An Orphan in Her Teens, Determined to Get an Education

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
Ernestine Grant's mother, Ethel, adored Christmas. And so it was not surprising that one morning a week before the holiday she was heading out of her Brooklyn apartment in search of additional gifts. Ethel Grant got as far as the door before she cried out for her husband and crumpled to the floor. She had been stricken by a massive stroke. She lasted a week in the hospital. She died on her beloved Christmas Eve.
Ernestine found herself lost in an admixture of gloom and confusion. She was only 11, and the world now looked a whole lot different. That was in 2001. 
A lonelier and more desolate life continued with her father, Mozzon, who drove a truck for a candy company. In 2007, however, leukemia engulfed him without warning. In short order, he was essentially bedridden.
Ernestine cared for him -- cooking, doing the laundry, shopping -- because who else was there? She had five older siblings, but they lived elsewhere and her relationship with them was not close.
To keep her father's spirits up, she played checkers with him (''I beat him once'') and watched Mets games.
Everyone now knew her as ''Brooklyn.'' She played on the high school basketball team at the Manhattan Center for Science and Mathematics in East Harlem, but the coach could never remember her name. She was the only player from Brooklyn, so that is what he began calling her. The nickname stuck.
Her father hung on for six months. Alone now, a senior in high school, Brooklyn moved in with her aunt, Jessie Warren, a retired practical nurse who lived in the Bronx -- Brooklyn going to the Bronx.
She felt frozen, her young life brought to a halt. One day moved slower than the previous day. ''I was just sort of going through the motions,'' she said at her aunt's tidy, well-kept house, wind thumping against the windows. ''I was not really here.''
But she was intent on college. Money was nowhere in sight.
Cobbling together loans and scholarships, she entered the University of Hartford and began as a chemistry major, since she had been good in that subject in high school. Chemistry sat less well with her than she had anticipated, and when economics sparked her interest, she switched to that, finding the dynamics of supply and demand more animating.
In her sophomore year, costs rose and she was short of money. A request to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund resulted in an $800 grant from the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven organizations that participate in the Neediest Cases campaign. The grant got her through another semester.
When she found herself $5,000 shy of the tuition bill for the spring semester, she had to drop out last December and regroup. She was not terribly fond of the school, either.
For months, she sought a temporary job without success, the sagging economy being what it was, and she moped around, feeling lost. She finally found summer work at the Children's Aid Society, then landed a position as a sales associate at a Staples store in Chelsea, selling stationery while she plotted her return to college.
In January, she will resume her twisty road to an education at the far more affordable Lehman College, to which she can commute.
A pensive young woman with merry eyes and an easy laugh, she likes to go to the batting cage at Chelsea Piers, where she whacked away at baseballs. She intends to try out for Lehman's softball team.
Her ambition is to become an economics professor. What would she say of today's economy?
''It will improve, but it will take awhile,'' she said. ''They're not doing enough jobwise and educationwise for my generation and the generation behind me. I know a girl in my high school, and she was beyond smart and she didn't go to college because her mother couldn't afford it. It's ridiculous.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES: 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS: 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK: 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY: 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK: 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES: 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK: Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ernestine Grant, at her aunt's home, in the Bronx. Ms. Grant's mother died when she was 11, and her father when she was a high school senior. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); ORPHANS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (88%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); LEUKEMIA (71%); TUITION FEES (70%); BASKETBALL (66%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



712 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Hands Citigroup an Unexpected Prize: A $100 Million Check

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Nearly two years after Citigroup was outfoxed for the troubled Wachovia Corporation, Citi is walking away with an unexpected prize: a $100 million check from Wells Fargo to resolve claims that it had unfairly wrestled Wachovia out of Citi's hands.
The settlement, reached Friday, ends the bitter legal sparring that began just hours after Wells Fargo made a stunning middle-of-the-night bid for Wachovia in October 2008, days after Citigroup announced that it had a deal. Although Wells Fargo's offer ultimately prevailed, Citigroup mounted an aggressive fight to recover as much as $60 billion in damages - and to change the public perception that it had bungled one of the watershed deals of the financial crisis. 
Indeed, Citigroup officials thought they were riding to the rescue when they offered to buy Wachovia, one of a handful of deeply troubled financial companies that regulators were desperately trying to stabilize. The government arranged for JPMorgan Chase to buy Washington Mutual in one of the first shotgun mergers of the crisis, and it needed a fast solution for Wachovia.
Citigroup, facing its own gaping losses, asked for federal assistance to complete the merger; Wells Fargo beat Citigroup's bid with an offer that required no extra government support.
Under the terms of the settlement, Wells Fargo agreed to pay Citigroup $100 million to resolve all claims related the dispute.
''We are glad to put this matter behind us and we look forward to our two institutions working together in the future,'' the companies said in a joint statement.
By cutting the large settlement check, Wells Fargo hopes it can remove the legal cloud hanging over what has been a game-changing merger for the company. The deal nearly doubled the size of Wells Fargo and transformed it from a California regional bank into a national, too-big-too-fail giant.
Now that its real estate losses from Wachovia appear to be easing, Wells Fargo officials say that the deal is paying off far better than they expected. The $100 million payoff may just be another merger expense.
Meanwhile, the settlement should also free up the bank's leadership team to focus on the remaining challenges of integrating Wachovia's East Coast banking operations, rather than face the possibility of reputational embarrassments or other setbacks that could emerge in a trial.
This week, Wells Fargo announced that it planned to convert branches in New Jersey and Delaware in February, followed by New York and Connecticut in March.
For Citigroup, the legal windfall is essentially found money. Although Citigroup had vowed to mount a vigorous campaign, several legal experts regarded its case as flimsy. Citigroup had entered into only an exclusivity agreement with Wachovia; it had not formally completed the merger.
Still, it is a somewhat hollow victory. By missing out on Wachovia, Citigroup lost its chance to gain one of the last remaining large regional banking franchises, which would have brought in tens of billions of dollars in stable deposits and vastly expanded its branch network in the United States.
Although Citigroup officials maintain that they acted prudently, investors harshly criticized the bank's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, for bungling the acquisition.
Citigroup's stock fell sharply after it became clear that Wachovia would wind up in Wells Fargo's hands, and the bank ultimately was forced to turn to the government for multiple bailouts.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); MERGERS (89%); DAMAGES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



713 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Looking to Next Year, Republicans Stymie Democrats' Efforts on Top Measures

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Empowered by their election gains, Congressional Republicans are giving little ground to President Obama and weakened Democrats in the final weeks of the 111th Congress, imperiling Democratic efforts to pass major tax and spending legislation, unemployment aid and a nuclear nonproliferation treaty among other issues.
One week into a lame-duck session, Democrats have been unable to gain traction on their top priorities, leaving them casting about for ways to avoid a year-end pileup of expired tax breaks, exhausted jobless benefits and federal agencies running out of money. 
Republicans, who will take over the House in January and cut deeply into the Democratic majority in the Senate, appear content to do the minimum possible and push the big fights into the next year, when they will have more power and leverage. The Republicans say Democrats have only themselves to blame because they put off too many matters until after the election.
''While there's business that needs to be done, I would hope that the leaders that are still in charge would heed the advice of the American people that occurred on Election Day in terms of being prudent in their actions here before the end of the year,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the incoming speaker.
Democrats, enmeshed in organizational duties, have not yet forced showdowns on the expiration of Bush-era tax breaks or how to keep the government running after a stop-gap spending measure expires next month. But Republicans, after an election that seemed to reward their strong opposition to Democratic initiatives, have made their resistance clear.
In the House, Republicans united to defeat an initial attempt to extend unemployment pay for the long-term unemployed. In the Senate, Republicans used procedural tactics to force the Democrats to consume much of the week inching ahead on an otherwise popular measure to improve the food safety system. The Republican leaders of the Senate and House canceled a tentatively scheduled postelection meeting at the White House with Mr. Obama, a move Democrats viewed as a slight.
And in a decision that has drawn criticism from even the top Senate Republican on foreign policy, other leading Republicans say they will not back a nuclear nonproliferation treaty that seemed headed toward approval.
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat, accused Republicans of mounting a ''scorched earth policy'' where ''they vote no on everything, even the Start treaty, which is really appalling.''
But what Democrats see as obstreperousness, many Republicans view as fulfilling the wishes of voters, which is to limit their business during the lame-duck session and leave the work to the 112th Congress.
''The Democrats are insisting on playing an encore when there were boos for the concert,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Senate Republican. ''We should keep the tax rates where they are, reduce the debt and go home.''
The most nettlesome issue remains the matter of the Bush tax cuts, which are scheduled to expire at the end of the year. Democrats have been clear that while they wish to extend the cuts for middle-class families, they are against doing so for those families with earnings over $250,000. Republicans call the Democratic approach a nonstarter.
''We will do everything in our power to stop President Obama and Speaker Pelosi from raising taxes on working families, small-business people and investors,'' said Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and incoming majority leader.
Other Republicans offer instead to agree to a temporary extension of all the tax cuts while a solution is worked out, but a compromise has proved elusive. The standoff could spill into next year, leaving the next Congress, with a Republican-controlled House, to do battle with the Obama administration directly.
On spending, Democrats had initially seen indications that some top Republicans might be willing to support a package of bills that would pay for federal operations through the entire fiscal year and avoid a fight early in the new Congress. But Republicans, eager to make an impact on spending, are now leaning toward supporting another short-term spending bill that would allow them greater say in setting the spending levels in 2011.
House Republicans, mindful of how their handling of budget issues provoked a backlash in 1995, have been less aggressive in overtly defying the administration than have Republicans in the Senate, who will remain in the minority yet have more power to obstruct under Senate rules.
As Democrats square off with their rivals, they are clearly hoping that deep-seated Republican opposition, particularly on a national security issue like nuclear proliferation, backfires.
''I think what Senator McConnell said about wanting to make Obama a one-term president is the exact opposite of what the American people expect of Congress now,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat, referring to Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader. ''If that becomes their image of their brand, I don't think it will sit well with the people.''
Yet Mr. Durbin, the party's vote counter, said he was skeptical that anything of substance could get done in the lame-duck session given the need to overcome procedural hurdles.
''As the whip, it has been my sad duty to count to 60, and I have missed that number many times,'' he said. ''This is going to require bipartisan effort. Is it frustrating? Yes. But that's the reality we have to deal with in the Congress.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); FOOD SAFETY (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



714 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Pelosi Chooses a New Yorker For House Fund-Raising Post

BYLINE: By JANIE LORBER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Friday named Representative Steve Israel of New York to lead the House Democratic campaign committee into the next election, putting him in charge of the party's effort to regain the majority it lost in November. 
Mr. Israel, 52, a moderate who represents portions of Long Island, would succeed Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland. Republicans picked up at least 61 House seats in this year's midterm elections, knocking off many Democratic incumbents, some in swing and Republican-leaning districts.
''Congressman Israel knows how to win in tough districts,'' Ms. Pelosi said in a statement. ''He replaced a formidable Republican incumbent in 2000, and has worked every day since then to strengthen Democrats across the country.''
Returning Democrats to the majority - and securing the money to do it - will be no small task in a presidential election year amid a still-sputtering economy. And, with the moderate Blue Dog Coalition decimated, Mr. Israel's main job will be trying to recruit middle-of-the-road Democrats like himself.
He has built a reputation for being a prolific fund-raiser, pulling in nearly $2.5 million for his 2010 re-election campaign even though his seat is considered safe.
The nomination - he still has to be formally approved by the full House caucus - puts Mr. Israel in the exclusive group of party leaders. He has served as the committee's recruitment chairman since 2008 and also sits on the Appropriations Committee.
Mr. Israel worked his way into the Pelosi inner circle after supporting Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland instead of Ms. Pelosi in the battle for minority whip in 2001 and voting with Republicans on some issues, like the Bush tax cuts. He was elected to Congress in 2000 after serving on his town board in Huntington, N.Y., for nearly a decade.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Israel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (65%); TAX LAW (62%)

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (91%); NANCY PELOSI (90%); STENY HOYER (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



715 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: After the Fed's Action, Watching Inflation's Trajectory

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THE core rate of inflation fell to a record low in the United States last month, rekindling fears of deflation and warnings that the Federal Reserve might have to take even more aggressive steps to keep inflation as high as it wants it to be.
''In the short run, disinflationary forces in Western economies, especially the U.S., appear too powerful to be overwhelmed by the recent loosening of monetary policy,'' said Richard Batty, an investment strategist at Standard Life Investments, a Scottish firm. 
Since the collapse of the housing market in the United States and the beginning of the global financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has made avoiding deflation a major priority, recalling the experience of Japan after its bubble burst in the early 1990s. The Fed has set an annual inflation target of 2 percent or a little lower, but is not getting it.
The latest figures, released this week, showed that overall inflation in consumer prices was 1.2 percent in the 12 months through October, while the core inflation rate -- excluding food and energy -- rose just 0.6 percent. The previous low for that index, of 0.7 percent, came in the 12 months through February 1961, when the economy was in recession.
As the accompanying chart indicates, the core inflation figures are charting a path roughly similar to one shown in Japan 15 years earlier. That has been true despite a much stronger reaction by the American central bank, which was determined not to make the same mistakes the Japanese made.
Deflation is feared for several reasons. If consumers come to expect it, as happened in Japan, there is a strong incentive to delay purchases while waiting for a lower price. That can restrain economic activity and increase unemployment. In addition, deflation places downward pressure on asset prices, worsening the situation of those who are indebted.
The latest announced move by the Fed, called QE2 in the media as a shorthand for the second round of quantitative easing, calls for the central bank to purchase $600 billion of longer-term Treasuries in coming months. While the Fed has traditionally conducted its open market operations using short-term Treasury bills, rates on those are already close to zero, forcing the bank to move out the maturity spectrum if it wants to stimulate the economy.
That move has been denounced overseas as an effort to reduce the value of the dollar, something Fed officials deny, and inside the country as an effort to print money and support big government that would lead to runaway inflation.
This week, a group of Republicans proposed to change the Fed's dual legal mandate, which calls on it both to keep inflation tame and to fight unemployment. ''It's time to return the Federal Reserve to the singular mission of protecting the fundamental strength and integrity of the dollar,'' said Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, a Republican and chief sponsor of the proposal.
There are times when the dual mandate seems contradictory, but this is not one of them, and it is unlikely the Fed would change course if it had a single mandate.
The political criticism could make it harder for the Fed to continue acting if the economy remains weak and inflation keeps falling after QE2 is completed. But it might conclude it had no choice.
''To change inflation expectations permanently,'' wrote Mr. Batty of Standard Life, ''a much larger monetary response would be needed from the U.S. and Western authorities than that already announced. In summary, if central bankers decide that higher inflation must be engineered, then investors should anticipate another phase of extraordinary policy measures through QE3.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Following Japan's Path, So Far: In the United States, the core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy prices, rose 0.6 percent in the 12 months through October. That was the smallest 12-month gain since the government began calculating the figure in the 1950s. The chart shows the 12-month changes in core C.P.I. for the United States and Japan, in the years before and after housing prices peaked in each country. (Souces: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Japanese Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INFLATION (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); DEFLATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); HOME PRICES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



716 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: More China Bank Reserves May Counter Fed's Easing

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China's central bank unexpectedly announced on Friday night that it would require commercial banks to set aside a bit more money. It was the second such move by Beijing this month and the clearest sign yet that China means to counter the Federal Reserve's monetary easing in the United States.
Commercial banks were ordered to transfer an additional 0.5 percent of their assets by Nov. 29 to very low-yielding accounts at the central bank, the People's Bank of China. The central bank relies mainly on these reserves for the renminbi to buy about $1 billion a day worth of dollars, euros and other currencies -- purchases that prevent the renminbi from appreciating. 
Beijing, which has largely resisted United States pressure to let the renminbi rise, has argued that the Federal Reserve's recent easy-money actions are a de facto devaluation of the dollar.
The central bank ordered commercial banks to increase their reserves after many news reports that Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, would criticize China on Friday for its currency policies. But the Chinese central bank issued its new regulation before Mr. Bernanke actually spoke, in Frankfurt.
The bank did not mention the Federal Reserve in its one-sentence announcement, which described the move as undertaken ''in order to strengthen liquidity management and appropriately control money and credit.''
But economists were quick to point out that the Chinese central bank had chosen a policy stance particularly well suited to holding down the value of the renminbi against the dollar, at a time when the Federal Reserve was trying to increase the supply of dollars by buying longer-denominated Treasuries.
Qu Hongbin, the co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC, wrote in a research note on Friday evening that higher reserve requirements for commercial banks showed that the People's Bank was ''prepared to do whatever it takes to fend off the impact'' of the Fed's monetary easing policies.
Most Western economists, and even some Chinese economists, had been predicting that the Chinese central bank would raise interest rates instead of raising reserve requirements.
Higher interest rates would help cool activity in a Chinese economy that may be overheating. Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in the 12 months through October, and broadly measured money supply is up 54 percent in the last two years.
Higher interest rates would also reward depositors, many of whom are elderly Chinese. And higher rates would increase costs for borrowers, particularly the state-owned enterprises that account for up to 90 percent of the borrowing in China because of their political clout.
But raising interest rates would also make it even more attractive for international investors to buy renminbi and invest them in China, which would very likely lead to a strong renminbi. The Chinese government is already struggling to continue holding down the value of the renminbi; its relative weakness against the dollar has been crucial to China's emergence as the world's largest exporter.
China's large trade surpluses have created millions of jobs in China, although critics point out that this has been at the expense of employment in its trading partners.
China is also moving rapidly into the manufacture of telecommunications equipment, cars, solar panels and other sophisticated goods in which it competes directly with the United States instead of with emerging economies. That has made it even more important for Chinese companies to have a competitive advantage from a weak currency, and the resulting lower prices of their exports, as they establish footholds in the American market.
To battle inflation, the People's Bank is already trying to limit incoming investments by people and companies that want to buy Chinese stocks, bonds and real estate. The commerce ministry said this week that it was also tightening scrutiny of incoming investment in new factories and other big projects.
The central bank already requires large commercial banks to park 17.5 percent of their deposits at the central bank. The new order means that requirement will rise to 18 percent on Nov. 29. Two Goldman Sachs economists, Helen Qiao and Yu Song, predicted in a research note that China might raise the reserve requirement again by the end of this year so as to further limit lending and control inflation.
By comparison, the Federal Reserve sets a reserve ratio of 10 percent for all but the smallest banks in the United States, and American banks are not required to hold any reserves against some large categories of deposits.
In China, the renminbi from commercial banks' compulsory deposits have been the central bank's main source of money in buying $2.65 trillion worth of foreign reserves. Raising the reserve requirement ratio not only gives the central bank more renminbi with which to buy dollars but also leaves the commercial banks with fewer to lend, which may help cool speculation in real estate and commodities.
The State Council, China's cabinet, announced late Wednesday that it was drafting price controls for a wide range of foods while seeking to make more food and fuel available. Local authorities were also ordered to provide subsidies for the needy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); US DOLLAR (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (53%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (53%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (53%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



717 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Panel on Pick For Schools Has Close Ties To Bloomberg

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and SHARON OTTERMAN; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York State's top education official on Friday named an advisory panel of eight experts, at least half of them with strong connections to the Bloomberg administration, to help him decide whether to approve Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's controversial choice to run the city's school system.
Three panelists selected by David M. Steiner, the state education commissioner, worked as senior officials at the city's Department of Education. 
One of those three now works at a foundation that was, for many years, the vehicle for Mr. Bloomberg's personal charitable donations.
A fourth panelist is the head of a museum that has received almost half a million dollars from Mr. Bloomberg in donations since he took office.
The eight panelists share deep experience in the education field as academics and administrators. It is precisely the kind of experience that Mr. Bloomberg's choice for chancellor, Cathleen P. Black, the chairwoman of Hearst Magazines, lacks.
Mr. Steiner must decide whether to grant Ms. Black a waiver from state law requiring leaders of school districts to have substantial education credentials and experience.
Citing the prerogative of mayoral control over the schools, the Bloomberg administration has argued that she is a ''visionary'' with experience in managing large and unwieldy organizations, as well as a familiarity with dealing with customers who are not always happy.
But critics of Ms. Black's selection, including many opposed to mayoral control in the first place, say that her appointment, which was a closely guarded secret until just minutes before the announcement on Nov. 9, demonstrates that Mr. Bloomberg is tone-deaf to the voices of parents and teachers who want an educator in the top spot.
The panel is scheduled to hold its first, and probably only, meeting on Tuesday in private in New York City. Education officials say that only the panelists, the commissioner and staff members will attend.
While it is not clear when Mr. Steiner will make his decision, many people expect that he will do so shortly after the Thanksgiving break, or well before Joel I. Klein, the current chancellor, departs at year's end.
The chairwoman of the panel is Susan H. Fuhrman, the president of Teachers College at Columbia University. Three panelists are in charge of sizable urban school districts: Andres A. Alonso, the chief executive of the Baltimore school system and a former deputy chancellor under Mr. Klein; Jean-Claude Brizard, the superintendent in Rochester and a New York City native who has been a teacher and principal and was a top aide to Mr. Klein; and Bernard P. Pierorazio, the Yonkers superintendent and a former top official at that city's highly regarded Saunders Trades and Technical High School.
In an interview, Mr. Brizard said, that he would keep an open mind.
''I'm anxious to see Cathie Black's credentials, and I'm interested to know what her vision is,'' he said. ''I don't believe you need to be an educator, but you certainly need to understand what the goals are, and how the system works.''
The other panelists are: Ronald F. Ferguson, a Harvard economist who focuses on the achievement gap between minority students and white students; Kenneth G. Slentz, a top aide to Mr. Steiner at the State Education Department; Louise Mirrer, president and chief executive of the New-York Historical Society, which has received regular donations from Mr. Bloomberg, and a former top official at the City University of New York; and Michele Cahill, a vice president at the Carnegie Corporation of New York and a former senior educational policy adviser to Mr. Klein.
When asked about the panel, Stephan Ellenwood, chairman of the Department of Curriculum and Teaching at Boston University and a former colleague of Mr. Steiner's there, said that he would have expected more panelists to come from academia.
''I don't know how he got this list,'' Dr. Ellenwood said. ''It surprises me. The membership of it seems quite uneven.''
Assemblyman Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat who has long been critical of Mr. Bloomberg's education policies, questioned the panel's makeup, saying, ''It appears that the deck has been stacked in favor of granting the waiver in a manner that will further undermine public confidence in the appointment of Ms. Black.''
But Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, the city teachers' union, said, ''All of these people have heavy-duty backgrounds and success in education, so obviously David Steiner is clearly looking at this from the educational side, as he should be.''
One panelist, Ms. Cahill, has personal experience with the waiver issue.
As one of Mr. Klein's most trusted aides from 2002 to 2006, she played a crucial role in reorganizing the school system and developing new schools, and was the driving force behind new programs for students most at risk of dropping out. But in 2004, she was denied a state waiver to serve as deputy chancellor, because while she had a dozen years of teaching experience and a master's degree in urban affairs, she lacked traditional education supervisory credentials.
She now works at the Carnegie Corporation of New York, a philanthropic organization, as director of urban education, and said it was important to find someone to continue what Mr. Klein started.
''I think that the next chancellor of the school system has to present a commitment to the kind of reform that has resulted in the positive outcomes that have happened in New York City at this time,'' she said.
She said she did not see her time working for Mr. Klein as a conflict. ''People will assume what they want to,'' she said. ''I have a 40-year record on education. I have had many professional positions, and I have worked with more than 30 school districts throughout the country.''
Still, it was widely known that Mr. Bloomberg, until recently, made his charitable gifts to hundreds of arts and cultural groups through Carnegie.
But George Soule, a Carnegie spokesman, said Friday that ''there was no intersection whatsoever'' between Ms. Cahill and that money, which he described as having come from ''an anonymous donor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Commissioner David Steiner (A13)
 Andres Alonso, the Baltimore schools' chief executive, and Louise Mirrer, president of New-York Historical Society. (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (75%); CHARITIES (75%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (87%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



718 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 494 words

PERSON: Disque D. Deane 

HEADLINE: Disque D. Deane, 89, Real Estate Investor

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Disque D. Deane, a financier and real estate investor who at one time controlled the General Motors Building, shopping centers in New York, Massachusetts and Georgia, and the nation's largest federally subsidized housing complex, Starrett City in Brooklyn, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Boston. He was 89. 
The cause was pneumonia, his nephew, Curt Deane, said.
Mr. Deane, who had a reputation as a shrewd and combative investor, kept a stuffed white Alaskan timber wolf in his office as ''a reminder,'' he once said, ''that you should always keep your organization lean and hungry.'' A wolf also adorned the letterhead of his company, Corporate Property Investors, symbolizing both his lone wolf approach to investing and the dog-eat-dog world in which he operated.
''He was a very tough negotiator,'' Donald J. Trump, a partner in the Starrett City complex, said, ''but an amazing real estate mind.''
Mr. Deane may be best known for assembling a group of investors in 1972 to back the development of Starrett City, the largest publicly assisted rental complex in the nation, with 5,881 apartments in 46 buildings. The complex, which overlooks Jamaica Bay and has its own power plant, post office and stores, is regarded as a successful example of economically and racially diverse housing.
Mr. Deane's partnership, Starrett City Associates, officially changed the name of the complex in 2002 to Spring Creek Towers, though it remained known as Starrett City.
In 2006 and 2007, at the top of the real estate market, Mr. Deane and his partners twice tried to sell the vast property, much to the chagrin of tenants, housing activists and many public officials who feared that long-term residents would be replaced by new tenants paying higher rents.
City, state and federal officials subsequently struck a deal to refinance the complex, enabling it to remain affordable to poor and working-class New Yorkers while the partners made an estimated $200 million profit.
Disque Dee Deane was born on July 6, 1921. He grew up in New York City, attended Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan and Duke University.
He was a senior partner at the Lazard Freres investment bank, where he was active in corporate financing through real estate transactions.
In 1971, Mr. Deane formed Corporate Property Investors, one of the largest real estate investment trusts of its time. The company built a number of shopping centers, including the Roosevelt Field mall on Long Island, the Burlington Mall in Burlington, Mass., and Lenox Square in Atlanta.
Through his philanthropy, he supported the Deane Laboratories in Neurobiology at Duke University and the Deane Institute for Integrated Research on Atrial Fibrillation and Stroke at Massachusetts General Hospital.
Mr. Deane is survived by his wife, Carol, and their two children, Anne and Carl; five children from two prior marriages that ended in divorce, Hare Stuart, Marjorie Swain, Kathryn Deane, Disque Jr., and Walter; and several grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Disque D. Deane in 1970. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYRONE DUKES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MAMMALS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); MARRIAGE (61%); HEART DISEASE (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); NEUROSCIENCE (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (56%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (56%)

DONALD TRUMP (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010



719 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OPEN & SHUT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Chronicle of a Changing City

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
THE SETAI FIFTH AVENUE, between 36th and 37th Streets, is the latest in a string of large luxury hotels built during the recession to open in recent months. Its sprawling penthouses rent for a very nonrecessionary $15,000 a night (rates for the rest of the 157 rooms and 57 suites start at $545). 
Guenter Richter, the hotel's managing director, was wearing an immaculate blue pinstriped suit with a yellow polka-dot pocket square the other day as he swept through the lobby and hallways bedecked with fine Italian woods and stonework. For certain guests, he has a gray Maserati at his disposal.
''I hope you can appreciate the understated excellence,'' Mr. Richter said as he walked through the snazzy Bar on Fifth and then up a circular staircase to the restaurant, Ai Fiori, opened by the chef Michael White. Mr. Richter strode through the spa and salon, pointing out the ice cave and aqua grotto, then onto a 25th-floor suite with kitchenette, spacious bathroom and panoramic views of Manhattan and Queens. ''They all have Swedish beds, the best linens, down duvets and so forth,'' he said.
THE KAYAK LAUNCH in the Nature Walk at the end of Paidge Avenue has become a popular access point for intrepid boaters who enjoy braving the toxic sluice in Newtown Creek for a gritty industrial paddle. But since the creek was declared a Superfund site on Sept. 27, city officials posted ''No Kayaking'' signs at the launch point. The city's Department of Environmental Protection closed the site ''out of an abundance of caution,'' a spokesman said, while health officials test the water quality.
Kayaking on the creek has increased in recent years. The environmental spokesman said that the city could not stop people from kayaking there, but that officials were ''reassessing boating access via city property in light of the recent Superfund listing and upcoming investigation of health risks.''
This dismayed Ted Gruber, chairman of the Long Island City Community Boathouse, who said the Paidge Avenue launch was the most popular one for his members. ''We've never had, or heard of, any health-related incident from the water quality,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPEN: Nov. 2, Midtown (PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SHUT: Oct. 16, Greenpoint (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); SUPERFUND (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (65%); CITIES (64%); POLLUTION MONITORING (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



720 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: Move Over, Fancy High-Rises

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
IT is not a sentiment commonly associated with New York City landlords, but for Malcolm Smart, some things are more important than money.
''I don't want someone I resent in my space,'' said Mr. Smart, the live-in owner of a Brooklyn brownstone with a one-bedroom rental apartment. ''If it means getting a few hundred dollars less in rent every month to have the right person living here, it is well worth it.''
Prospective renters' credit ratings, recommendations and salary are all still important, of course, but so are intangibles like personality -- which matters when you and your landlord are sharing a backyard, a hallway or a front stoop.
While large developers have long dominated the rental market in Manhattan and much of the rest of the city, brownstone Brooklyn is still the preserve of the small landlord. And with more landlords comes more variety and even the possibility of a New York City rarity devoutly to be wished -- the good deal, if not the outright steal. 
And brownstones -- traditionally more stable in price than other properties even in rough economic times, in part because of limited supply -- are once again ascendant in the borough. In recent years, as thousands of new luxury rentals flooded the Brooklyn market and large landlords offered incentives like several months' free rent, the safe old brownstone often had a hard time competing.
While there have always been renters who insist on brownstone or bust, and details like wood floors, elaborate molding and intimate rooms, in the months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers two years ago apartments in small Brooklyn buildings sat on the market for an average of 65 days before being rented, according to internal data from the Corcoran Group.
That was a sharp jump from an average of 10 days during the boom years. ''If you offer a buyer so many incentives, of course some are going to be swayed away from brownstones,'' said Vicki Negron, a senior vice president of Corcoran who specializes in Brooklyn.
But recently many of the new projects have filled up and the incentives have disappeared. The average time that an apartment in a small Brooklyn building remains empty is now 35 days, a bit less time than units in large developments. While prices are slightly lower than they were at their peak, brokers say, the real benefit for potential renters is that they have the opportunity to survey a variety of places before pulling the trigger.
And in Brooklyn, time can be almost as important as money, because of the sheer volume and variety of brownstone apartments. In the borough's brownstone belt -- a string of neighborhoods from Brooklyn Heights, on the west, to Bedford-Stuyvesant, on the east -- there are nearly as many landlords as there are apartments for rent. This means that prospective renters can look forward to sore feet and games of telephone tag.
There is no comprehensive listing service for Brooklyn brownstones. Owners often avoid the Internet altogether, developing long-term exclusive relationships with brokers. And even where listings are widely available, there is no indication of what the renters actually pay, which might be less than the asking prices.
All of these factors can make evaluating a brownstone rental a daunting process. The hunt is further complicated by the fact that prices can swing widely by neighborhood. For instance, apartments on the eastern edge of Prospect Heights often rent for 20 to 25 percent more than similar apartments in Crown Heights, just a few blocks away, brokers in the area said.
''It is a market where it's hard to pinpoint pricing because many brownstones are owner-occupied,'' said Andrew Barrocas, the chief executive of the Real Estate Group New York. ''Some of these landlords are not always looking for the highest prices, but the right tenant.''
The financial situations of landlords differ widely.
For instance, someone who bought a brownstone in the 1980s for a few hundred thousand dollars -- the going rate in many neighborhoods at the time -- is in a much different position than someone who paid upward of $2 million a few years ago and is relying on the monthly rental income to pay the mortgage.
Scott Klein, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman, has lived in Brooklyn since 1983 and, like many others who specialize in the borough, deals with both sales and rentals. In part, that is driven by the fact that new owners often rent out a part of their houses. That is the case at 411 Sterling Place in Prospect Heights, where a couple recently paid $1.7 million for a renovated brownstone. Mr. Klein did not sell them the house, but he showed them another property while they were searching, and they later asked him to help with the rental.
The owners plan on living in the garden apartment and renting the rest of the building. The parlor floor -- the most expensive in brownstone rentals -- and the second floor have been combined to make a two-bedroom duplex, available for $4,350 a month.
The apartment has many of the details treasured by those seeking a home in a brownstone, including tin ceilings, a pier mirror, herringbone floors and elaborate carved moldings in good condition. The kitchens and bathrooms have been updated, and there is a small deck off the kitchen, overlooking a large garden reserved for the owners' use.
''The owners said that if they have a good relationship with the tenants and if once in a while they wanted to have a party and use the whole backyard, they would be open to the idea,'' Mr. Klein said. The rent, too, is negotiable.
The top floor of the brownstone, a one-bedroom floor-through apartment, is also available, for $2,000 a month.
But just a few blocks away, at 414 Park Place, Mr. Smart, the landlord who said chemistry with his tenant was important to him, rents a one-bedroom floor-through at the top of his brownstone for $300 less.
''There are people who try and get top dollar for their apartment, and they end up with nothing but trouble,'' Mr. Smart said.
Like many brownstone landlords, he came to the neighborhood decades ago. In 1984 he moved into his first apartment, on the very same block where he now lives -- paying no rent for years because the owner was a friend.
After he bought his current home in 1998, he first turned to a broker to rent the top-floor apartment.
''The broker brought in like nine people,'' none of whom were right, he said. Through word of mouth, a young woman found out he had an apartment for rent. The two clicked and she moved in, staying for six years at the bargain rate of $1,200 a month.
After she moved out, Mr. Smart rented the place to Laurence Richardson, raising the rent to $1,700 a month, still a few hundred dollars less than similar properties in the neighborhood.
''It is very much a family kind of a thing,'' Mr. Smart said. ''I don't even have keys for these doors,'' he said, pointing to the doors that lead from his apartment to the common hallway.
But he now has the building on the market, for $1.414 million. He hopes the buyer will keep his tenant, but he knows that might not happen.
One of the downsides of living in a brownstone is that renters have little recourse if the owner decides to make a move. Many brownstones have fewer than six units, and as such are usually not subject to rent stabilization laws.
So Mr. Richardson may find himself back in the rental market. He said he had ''learned a huge lesson'' from his brownstone experience: ''Before you move into a place, always get a lease and make sure that the landlord isn't going to sell the place.''
Ms. Negron says that the owner's decision to sell the property is one of the few things that dislodge a brownstone tenant.
''I simply don't find people moving out because they decide they do not like brownstone living,'' she said.
Brokers say that success in finding a brownstone apartment is directly proportional to the effort put into the search.
''You have got to hunt,'' Ms. Negron said. ''You have to look in the tall grass.''
The odds of finding something that would be considered a steal are slim, agents say, but unlike many large properties, brownstones often offer room for negotiation. And because they can be found in a diversity of neighborhoods, something is out there for nearly every budget.
On the high end, at 11 Cranberry Street, steps from the promenade in Brooklyn Heights, Ms. Negron is showing the Mott Bedell House, a brick town house built in 1840 that is renting for $22,000 a month.
For that price, a twice-weekly cleaning service is included to help the tenants maintain nearly 8,000 square feet spread out over five floors. There are two kitchens and two washer-dryers, and each room is elegantly furnished, including a living room with a baby grand piano. There are four and a half baths, four fireplaces, a 500-year-old tree in the backyard and a top-floor terrace with views of the Manhattan skyline.
A few blocks away, at 107 Willow Street, a studio is for rent for $1,450 a month. The place has high ceilings, a deep closet, wide windows and a claw-foot tub. But the kitchen is just a hotplate and a small oven; one sink does double duty for bathroom and kitchen use.
Then there are the quirky apartments at 29 Willow Street, all reflections of the personalities of the owners, Arturo Rosales and Polley Sheeran, who bought the building for $1.6 million eight years ago and keep space for themselves on one floor. The rental apartments in their brownstone are furnished, each with a theme, and decorated with items collected on their travels as well as paintings done by Mr. Rosales.
The apartments can be had for as short a time as a weekend, or for as long as a year. The nightly rate for the two-bedroom is $350; monthly it runs $4,200. It also comes with a perk for pet owners.
''When Arturo likes you,'' Ms. Negron said, ''he will paint a picture of your dog.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FORT GREENE BROWNSTONES: South Portland Avenue in Brooklyn, still the province of small landlords. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
TAKE YOUR PICK: A studio at 107 Willow Street in Brooklyn Heights, top left, rents for $1,450 a month. Above and right, the town house at 11 Cranberry Street in Brooklyn Heights costs $22,000 a month. Left, a one-bedroom at 411 Sterling Place in Prospect Heights goes for $2,000 a month. Malcolm Smart, below, rents out a similar space at 414 Park Place in Prospect Heights for $1,700. Bottom, furnished apartments at 29 Willow Street in Brooklyn Heights include a two-bedroom, left, for $4,200, and a one-bedroom for $3,800. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE AND CENTER, PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



721 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: A Bayfront City Recovers

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
PERTH AMBOY
XIOMARA CEPEDA says it was an accident that she and her fiance found their way here, to a deal on a new three-bedroom condominium with a sweeping view of the Raritan Bay, the Outerbridge Crossing and Staten Island.
The pair currently rent an apartment on Staten Island, and often zip across the bridge to dine at one of the many ethnic restaurants in Perth Amboy, popularly known as Bay City. But it never occurred to them, as native New Yorkers, to look for a home here, Ms. Cepeda said. 
Until, one September day, they wandered down to the Perth Amboy waterfront after lunch. A severe storm had recently hit the redevelopment strip around Bay View Park; damage and detritus were everywhere -- including the inside of a condo building under construction.
Even after a tempest, Ms. Cepeda recalled, the singular beauty of the area shone through. And because of the tempest, the pair quickly surmised, prices would be very attractive.
''We stumbled into a perfect situation,'' said Ms. Cepeda, 30, who with her fiance, Glen Li, 35, runs a financial services company. ''Gorgeous space, affordable, and you can get to Manhattan, or anyplace, really fast -- in your car, or there's also a train station very close by.'' The city lies within a network of major highways, including the Garden State Parkway, the New Jersey Turnpike, Interstate 287, and Routes 1 and 9.
Perth Amboy's mayor, Wilda Diaz, sounded all the same themes when she spoke about the city in a recent interview, although to her mind, there is never anything accidental about finding attractive real estate here.
''Perth Amboy has so much to offer,'' she said. ''No matter what happens -- and it's hard to believe all the things that the city has gone through, sometimes -- we are always working to create new opportunities.''
In 2008 Ms. Diaz, who was brought up in a local public housing project, rose to become the first woman to be elected mayor, defeating Joseph Vas, an 18-year incumbent. The city certainly has battle scars, she said, and even some open wounds.
She inherited a $7 million budget deficit after taking office from Mr. Vas, who had spearheaded redevelopment but was convicted last month in federal court on charges of corruption and trying to misdirect redevelopment funds to his Congressional campaign.
These days Ms. Diaz is trying to dismiss that activity as ''ancient history.'' But others see the city's reputation as badly tarnished. Last month, a city councilman suggested that Perth Amboy should file a ''victim statement'' at Mr. Vas's sentencing hearing next January. And the local Business Improvement District hired a public relations firm to help scrub residual stains from Perth Amboy's image.
Earlier this year the city suffered another blow when it abruptly lost $15 million in school funding, as Gov. Christopher J. Christie imposed a freeze on state spending. (Perth Amboy officials filed suit to block Mr. Christie's move, but lost in appellate court in June.)
Ms. Diaz managed to muscle through deep job cuts and also moved to consolidate city departments to balance the municipal budget, but taxes went up in each of the last two years.
None of this is a deterrent to Ms. Cepeda, one of three Staten Islanders who signed contracts at the Bay View building in recent months. She said she and Mr. Li saw their purchase as not only a bargain, but also a ''sensible investment.'' The unit was listed for $395,000.
''There is no shortage of people interested in moving to Perth Amboy from New York,'' said Susan Hoagland, the real estate agent handling sales at the Bay View, which has six more units available. ''One reason is that prices are so attractive right now. They are lower here than even the outer boroughs -- and so values are pretty much guaranteed to rise.''
The Bay View is the third structure to be built as part of the Landings at Harborside, by the Kushner Companies. The Harborside project was planned as a $600 million mixed-use development, but the ailing economy and Kushner's move out of New Jersey have forced a change, said Helga van Eckert, the city's economic and community development director.
Still, Ms. van Eckert added, the first Bay View building and a condominium called the Admiral are close to fully occupied. (A second, 10-unit Bay View building at the edge of the water is being completed now.)
And the city continues to grow, the mayor says proudly. ''We hope -- and believe -- the official population will rise to 50,000 when the next census results are announced early next year,'' Ms. Diaz said. She campaigned in English and Spanish in neighborhoods believed to have been undercounted in the 2000 census, she said, because of their high proportion of immigrant residents. According to past census figures, about 70 percent of Perth Amboy's citizens are of Hispanic origin.
Ms. Diaz urged residents to stand and be counted so the city would receive its due under federal and state financing formulas.
''We are growing, and we will have a stronger future because of that,'' the mayor said in an interview at Perth Amboy's historic City Hall. (In 1789, state leaders gathered at City Hall to ratify the Bill of Rights, and New Jersey became the first state to do so. In 1870, the first black voter cast his ballot there.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OVER THE RIVER: Glen Li and Xiomara Cepeda can see Staten Island, where they rent, from the Bay View condominium in Perth Amboy where they just bought a three-bedroom apartment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); WEATHER (69%); MAYORS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); SENTENCING (64%); INTERVIEWS (64%); LITIGATION (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



722 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: The New Great Game

BYLINE: By AARON L. FRIEDBERG. 
Aaron L. Friedberg is a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton. His new book, ''A Contest for Supremacy: China, America and the Struggle for Mastery in Asia,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:
MONSOON
The Indian Ocean and the Future of American Power
By Robert D. Kaplan
366 pp. Random House. $28
Maps often reveal more about those who draw them than they do about the reality they purport to represent. The Mercator projections that typically hang on the walls of classrooms and Pentagon offices place the United States in the middle, separated from Europe to the east by the Atlantic Ocean and from Asia to the west by the vast expanse of the Pacific. Our preference for this perspective no doubt reflects a certain national egocentrism, but for the better part of the last two centuries it has also made a good deal of strategic sense.
Through much of the 19th century these oceanic moats made possible what the historian C. Vann Woodward called an era of ''free security.'' As it grew stronger and stepped onto the world stage, the United States projected its power primarily toward Europe and East Asia. Over the course of the 20th century, Americans waged wars, hot and cold, to prevent these vital regions from falling under the dominion of hostile forces. 
Whatever purpose they may once have served, yesterday's maps have now outlived their usefulness. Since the end of the cold war, and with increased speed and intensity since 9/11, our focus has shifted toward the Middle East, and South and Southeast Asia, as well as toward the waters of the western Pacific. In ''Monsoon,'' Robert D. Kaplan argues that we need fresh ways of seeing the world, and especially these parts of it that, despite being split in two by the old projections, are actually integral elements in a single coherent whole.
Kaplan's goal is to provide his countrymen with just such a map, one centered on what he calls ''the Greater Indian Ocean.'' This is a region that stretches ''eastward from the Horn of Africa past the Arabian Peninsula, the Iranian plateau and the Indian subcontinent, all the way to the Indonesian archipelago and beyond.'' Thanks to monsoon winds that shift direction at regular six-month intervals the waters connecting these far-flung shores have long been readily navigable, even by relatively primitive sailing vessels. Linked first by Muslim merchants, the Greater Indian Ocean was later dominated by Portugal, then by the British and most recently by the United States.
Although it became something of a strategic backwater during the cold war, this maritime domain is emerging as the global system's center of gravity. Through it pass huge tankers carrying a large fraction of the world's energy. At its western end, from Somalia to the monarchies of the Persian Gulf to Iran and Pakistan along the shores of the Arabian Sea, lie the main sources of Islamist extremism. Most important of all, it is in the Indian Ocean that the interests and influence of India, China and the United States are beginning to overlap and intersect. It is here, Kaplan says, that the 21st century's ''global power dynamics will be revealed.''
''Monsoon'' is Kaplan's 13th book, and like much of his earlier work, it contains a special blend of first-person travel writing, brief historical sketches and wide-ranging strategic analysis. Proceeding clockwise from Oman at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, Kaplan comes ashore at various points along the coasts of Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar (formerly Burma) and Indonesia before completing his journey in Zanzibar off the shores of East Africa. At each point along the way he finds varying mixtures of economic dynamism, cultural diversity, ethnic tension, ecological strain and political turmoil. He is most optimistic about those places (like India and Indonesia) that combine democratic institutions with decentralized administrative structures and cultures of tolerance. Those (like Pakistan and Myanmar) where authoritarian regimes seek to impose order on diverse populations will remain dangerously prone to radicalization, instability, violence and the possibility of internal collapse, external meddling or both. Some (like Bangladesh and Sri Lanka) could go either way.
Kaplan is at his best when he describes the ''new Great Game'' that is now unfolding across the Indian Ocean. As he correctly notes, it is China that is primarily responsible for setting this game in motion. Since the turn of this century, that country's explosive economic growth has propelled it outward in search of markets, materials and, above all, energy. Thirsty for oil, Chinese tankers now ply the waters from the western Pacific, down through the narrow Strait of Malacca off Indonesia, across the Indian Ocean to the Persian Gulf.
In a world governed solely by the laws of supply and demand, China's increasing engagement in global energy markets would pose no serious problems. But there are other forces at work. Despite their smiles and professions of good will, China's leaders believe that the United States is threatened by their country's rise and ultimately seeks to thwart it. Given the fact that the United States Navy dominates the world's oceans, a growing dependence on seaborne energy imports represents a potentially deadly vulnerability in Chinese eyes.
Beijing has responded in two ways: first by beginning to build up its own naval power, and second by seeking alternative supply routes that are less susceptible to interdiction by the United States or other hostile powers. Included among these are overland pipelines to contiguous energy sources in Central Asia and a variety of ambitious engineering projects (including a new port at Gwadar in Pakistan, other ports and pipelines in Myanmar, and a possible canal across the isthmus of Thailand) that could shorten the route from Persian Gulf suppliers to Chinese consumers.
The pursuit of energy, Kaplan explains, has thus caused China to become much more active and visible in an area that a fast-growing India regards as its own backyard. In response, despite continuing worries over internal stability and the perpetual problem of a hostile Pakistan, Indian planners have begun to broaden their strategic horizons. New Delhi now seeks to compete with Beijing for influence in Myanmar and to counter its initiatives around the Bay of Bengal by strengthening ties with Vietnam and Indonesia in the South China Sea. A bigger navy will give India the means with which to defend its own expanding energy imports and perhaps to exert leverage in a future confrontation by threatening China's. Finally, over the past decade, India has entered into a quasi-alliance relationship with the United States.
Kaplan holds open the possibility that nascent great-power rivalry will lead to ever closer cooperation. Perhaps, as the two Asian giants grow stronger, and with America ''in elegant decline,'' the era of United States naval dominance in the Greater Indian Ocean will give way to ''an American-Indian-Chinese condominium of sorts.'' Pursuing their shared interests in peaceful trade and development, the three nations could collaborate to oppose piracy, preserve freedom of navigation and respond to natural disasters.
Perhaps. What seems more plausible at this point is that the competitive impulses Kaplan so accurately assesses will grow stronger. If that is what happens, then the United States and India are very likely to find themselves working harder and more closely in the years ahead to balance China's growing power.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEYMOUR CHWAST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); HISTORY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); GULF STATES (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



723 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING AROUND TOMPKINS SQUARE PARK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Grit, Glam and Green, in One Vibrant Package

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
NISHA KEWALRAMANI, 34, moved with her parents to the East Side of Manhattan when she was 8 months old, and has enjoyed jumping around the city, exploring different neighborhoods, ever since. Since March, though, she has found herself roaming less. It's not that she's tired of New York. On the contrary, she said recently, it's that after a lifetime, she has finally settled in a neighborhood she does not want to leave.
The neighborhood is the East Village, not all that far south of Ms. Kewalramani's last apartment, at 49th Street and First Avenue, but a world apart in character. Specifically, she is on Avenue B facing Tompkins Square Park, a 10.5-acre green space that has provided shelter and comfort to an array of East Villagers from its spot at the heart of the neighborhood. 
That group has included homeless people and drug users who took over large parts of the park in the late 1980s, more than once clashing with the police. But it also includes people like Ms. Kewalramani, a yoga teacher who paid $1.2 million for her 1,000-square-foot one-bedroom in Christodora House, a 16-story condominium at 143 Avenue B. Loyalists say one of the best things about the park and its environs is that they can comfortably accommodate such a broad spectrum of residents.
Ms. Kewalramani's home studio faces the park, which provides a wide view and open sky, as well as a refuge she traverses every day. ''It's kind of like a meditation for me,'' she said. ''Walking through the park to come home and walking through the park to go out and start my day has been one of my greatest blessings of living in 143.''
Susan Stetzer, the district manager of Community Board 3 and an East Village resident since 1970, said the park had attained a state of relative quiet, aside from complaints about the handful of ''very loud'' concerts it hosts throughout the year.
''There's no issues there,'' Ms. Stetzer said. ''We have a big playground that was renovated very, very recently. It's very nice. The park is well used. We have a rat problem, but so does a lot of the rest of New York City.''
Speaking as a resident rather than as a district manager, she described something bittersweet about having witnessed the slow gentrification of the park. The playgrounds -- there are actually three -- are shinier and more colorful than when she used to take her son there in the late '70s and early '80s. But, she said, they loved the park then, too, and that era had its advantages.
''It was a much stronger, much closer community then,'' Ms. Stetzer said. ''Everyone knew everyone, and they weren't necessarily people like you.''
In a neighborhood known for its activism, she added, people used to meet one another at conferences for one cause or another, or while handing out petitions on tenants' rights.
''Nowadays, if someone's giving out something,'' she said, ''it's for a sale.''
Still, she said, the Sunday morning Greenmarket at Avenue A and East Seventh Street is a popular gathering place, as is the park's dog run, near its northeast corner. And many of the newer people, though they do have more money, are nonetheless there because they appreciate the community.
Alex Clark, an owner of the Ost Cafe on East 12th Street who moved to East 11th Street in 2009, said that the park retained some of its grittiness, but that residents tended to give one another room to live. There is one thing, he said, that everyone has in common.
''I think everyone who lives here realizes at some point that they, at least in their eyes, live in the best neighborhood,'' Mr. Clark said.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The Christodora, where Ms. Kewalramani lives, has had a colorful history: Built in the late '20s as a settlement house for low-income families, it was empty for years, and then in the '60s served as an unofficial community center. By the late 1980s, after its conversion to condominiums, it became a target as the ''Die, yuppie scum'' building -- a phrase that gained currency during the Tompkins Square Park rioting.
Christodora residents, many of whom were involved in neighborhood activism, have long considered such taunts unfair, even as high-priced sales in the building continue to make news.
Most buildings in the area are shorter than the 16-story Christodora. Five-story tenements, fire escapes crisscrossing their facades, dominate the side streets. Condos are still rarer than co-ops, said Emma Hamilton Malina, a senior associate broker at the Corcoran Group who lived in the neighborhood for almost eight years.
It can be hard to discern the relative priciness of such buildings, which look much the same from the outside as they did 50 years ago. A glimpse of a high-end track bike in an apartment window or an Eames desk chair in a storefront office, may indicate a lavish interior. Still, Ms. Malina said the nature of the area's housing stock, especially the absence of buildings with elevators, has kept prices diverse.
''If it's a fifth-floor walk-up,'' she said, ''it's never going to be a million-dollar property. So you do kind of have something for everyone.''
The main retail corridors near the park, A, B and C and First Avenues, are distinctive for their relative lack of chain stores, a result of neighborhood campaigns to preserve small businesses. These avenues, to the chagrin of many residents, can get loud: They are lined with bars and restaurants, and the community board has begun restricting the issuance of liquor licenses in some areas to cut down on noisy late-night foot traffic.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
Ms. Malina of Corcoran said a typical price for a one-bedroom walk-up co-op unit near the park cost about $600,000. Two-bedrooms, which are rarer, trade at ''a serious premium,'' she said. So do units in the Christodora, as Ms. Malina would know: She and her husband were the previous owners of Ms. Kewalramani's apartment. The last four apartments there, she said, have sold for around $1,200 a square foot.
In the rest of the area near the park, Ms. Malina said, prices are more like $900 to $1,000 per square foot, though there are some relatively inexpensive small units on the market, like a pair of ground-floor studios for $350,000 and $250,000.
Craigslist indicates that rental prices vary widely, with studio units near the park renting for around $1,700 a month, two-bedrooms for more than $2,500 and three-bedrooms for close to $4,000. Ms. Stetzer, at the community board, also notes that there is public housing on East 12th Street and subsidized housing around the neighborhood, though the supply is dwindling.
That, she said, explains many longtime residents' nostalgia for the days when the area was rougher and less sought-after. ''There were certainly a lot of bad things happening,'' she said, ''but we could afford to live here.''
THE COMMUTE
Few subway lines pass near the park; the closest is the L train, at 14th Street and First Avenue, and the N, R and 6 trains all make stops a few long blocks to the west. Travel time to Midtown is around half an hour. Some residents don't mind the relative insularity, arguing that it makes the neighborhood more close-knit. There are alternatives: The city recently installed bike lanes on First and Second Avenues.
WHAT TO DO
Residents can choose among a seemingly endless supply of cafes, restaurants and bars. The block of St. Mark's Place just west of the park has restaurants specializing in sushi, vegan food, crepes, Thai, hot dogs, hummus and dumplings, among others. There is also an Irish pub and a tattoo parlor.
The neighborhood abounds in community gardens, often on vacant lots. Civic activism remains a popular pastime; the East Village Community Coalition is the most prominent group. Neighborhood campaigns in recent years included one to preserve St. Brigid's Church, on Avenue B, that proved successful. Another, to stave off developers at a former public school and community center on East Ninth Street, remains unresolved.
THE SCHOOLS
The public elementary school closest to the park is No. 64, at Sixth Street and Avenue B. It scored a C on its most recent city progress report, with 26.5 percent of tested students found proficient in English, 44.7 percent in math. Public School 19, on First Avenue, also scored a C; 34.1 percent were proficient in English, 56.8 percent in math.
The Tompkins Square Middle School, in the same building as No. 64, received an A, with 57.3 percent of students proficient in English, 72.8 percent in math. The East Side Community School on East 11th Street, which serves Grades 6 through 12, got an A for its middle school, with 33 percent of students proficient in English and 60.8 in math. Its high school also scored an A. In 2009 its SAT averages were 395 in reading, 406 in math and 390 in writing, versus 435, 432 and 439 statewide.
THE HISTORY
According to the Encyclopedia of New York City, Tompkins Square Park and the surrounding neighborhood was once owned by Daniel D. Tompkins, a governor of New York who was vice president under James Monroe. The city acquired the land, then a swamp, in 1834, and landscaped and graded it. As far back as 1857, it was the site of protests about jobs and the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAGIC CARPET: Tompkins Square Park can be magnetic on a warm day in mid-November. One resident rhapsodized over the pleasure she took in ''walking through the park to come home and walking through the park to go out and start my day.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); MEDITATION (71%); YOGA (66%); HOMELESSNESS (53%); RODENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



724 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: New Lending Guidelines

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
NEW lending guidelines being rolled out by Fannie Mae will make securing a mortgage a lot easier for some borrowers but harder for others.
The rules, effective on Dec. 13, will allow buyers to use gifts and grants from nonprofit groups for their minimum 5 percent down payment, which is the threshold set by Fannie Mae, the government-owned company that sets lending standards and buys mortgages from lenders. (Freddie Mac is considering similar new guidelines, said Brad German, a spokesman.)
Previously, borrowers had to contribute a minimum 5 percent down payment from their own funds, but additional down payment money could be from a gift (though never from a home seller). The exception was for borrowers who put 20 percent down: all that money could come as a gift. 
Because many lenders now require a down payment of 10 percent or more, the new rules mean that borrowers will still have to come up with extra funds -- either their own or gifts.
Still, ''this is definitely going to help upgrade buyers and young couples who for whatever reason don't have enough money and are getting some from their families,'' said Edward Ades, the owner of Universal Mortgage, a broker in Brooklyn.
The gift rules apply only to single-family principal residences, including town houses, co-ops and condominiums, and covers mortgage amounts in excess of 80 percent of the property's value. Also, there is a limit on the loan balance -- $729,000 in high-cost areas like New York City, and $417,000 in other areas.
Now, the not-so-good news.
Fannie Mae is getting tougher on debt-to-income ratios, or the amount of a borrower's gross monthly income that goes toward paying off all debts. The maximum ratio for those seeking a conventional mortgage will drop to 45 percent from 55 percent under the new guidelines.
The agency is also taking a harder look at payment histories on revolving debt. In the past, if a borrower missed a monthly payment, Fannie Mae ignored it, or required that lenders add a few percentage points to the total balance when calculating the debt-to-income ratio. Now, buyers who have missed a payment will have 5 percent of the total balance added to their ratios.
Mr. Ades said that new hurdle could sink many potential borrowers with student-loan debt that has been deferred.
Susan A. Kreyer, the president of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers, added that buyers who had bought big-ticket items through financing with delayed payments would also be affected.
In addition, Fannie Mae is scrutinizing people who are at the end of their mortgages, with 10 or fewer payments left. It will now count those remaining balances in the debt-to-income ratios -- another departure. Mortgage experts say that older buyers near the end of their loans may now have a tougher time securing a loan for a second home.
But perhaps the toughest news from Fannie Mae concerns borrowers who have gone through foreclosure. They will be excluded from obtaining a Fannie-backed loan for seven years, up from five. ''That's a long time in this economy,'' Ms. Kreyer said. That change was announced separately from the gift and debt rules, but will also take effect in Fannie Mae's automated underwriting systems next month.
Fannie Mae buys or guarantees around $3.2 trillion in residential loans, about 28 percent of the entire residential mortgage market in the United States. Lenders typically issue loans based on the agency's guidelines.
Buyers who do not meet the new Fannie Mae requirements may have to consider a nonconforming loan from the Federal Housing Administration. These loans, which do not follow Fannie Mae underwriting guidelines, require mortgage insurance premiums and, for those with low credit scores, higher interest rates and steeper down-payment requirements.
Correction: December 12, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Mortgages column on Nov. 21, about new Fannie Mae mortgage lending guidelines, misstated the number of years a typical borrower who has gone through foreclosure had to wait under the old guidelines before obtaining another Fannie-backed loan. The period was five years, not four. (It is now seven.) The column also misstated the year in which Fannie Mae tightened its debt-to-income ratios. It was in December 2009, not this month.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES (SOURCE: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); FAMILY (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010



725 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ART REVIEW CONNECTICUT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Feast or Famine, It's Food for Thought

BYLINE: By SYLVIANE GOLD

 BODY:
From prehistoric cave paintings of beef on the hoof to Renaissance canvases depicting the Last Supper to Andy Warhol's picture of a Campbell's soup can, food has inspired art. But the most striking images in ''Art and Appetite,'' a small, thought-provoking exhibition of prints and photographs at the Davison Art Center, on the campus of Wesleyan University in Middletown, are less about food than they are about its absence.
Not to worry -- you won't go home feeling guilty about your Thanksgiving meal. The curator, Clare Rogan, offers several examples of what you might call the joy of looking at cooking. Roy Lichtenstein's ''Sandwich and Soda,'' printed in red, white and blue (on plastic instead of paper), revels in the crisp triangles of bread and the spherical bubbles in a soft drink; Donald Sultan's richly colored screen prints of peppers, cherries and pears are sensuous and inviting. Even Claes Oldenburg's whimsical lithograph ''Flying Pizza,'' with its blast of tomato red and its dancing slices, is about enjoyment. 
Enjoyment, however, is only part of what artists have seen in food. In ''Give Us This Day,'' a 1937 lithograph by the 20th-century American regionalist John Stockton De Martelly, a barefoot girl and two women huddling in shawls gather in a bare room around a bare table to share a pathetic bowl of soup. For all its inherent misery, the controlled drawing and restrained posing of the figures give the scene a quiet dignity.
But there's no discretion distancing viewers from the raw hunger in Kathe Kollwitz's 1924 lithograph ''Bread!,'' in which two disconsolate children demand food from their mother, wretched and bent under the weight of her heartbreak.
These two prints bookend the darkest part of the exhibition. No sooner has the evocation of farm-country misery in ''Give Us This Day'' sunk in than we find ourselves in front of a similar room, a similar table, similar stools and similar misery -- but this time in a photograph, taken in Gee's Bend, Ala., by Marion Post Wolcott for the Farm Security Administration in 1939.
It is one of several -- others are by Walker Evans, Aaron Siskind and Russell Lee -- that were made during the Depression to document poverty in America. There are food stands and grocery stores, their signs a reminder that as far back as the 1930s, it was cheaper to buy empty calories than real food: ''Milk 6[#x203a], Pepsi 5[#x203a].'' There are food-free cupboards and dirt floors and, as in the Kollwitz, children with not enough to eat.
Needless to say, the artists of the 20th century were not the first to take notice. Boisterous meals are in progress in both ''The Thin Kitchen'' and ''The Fat Kitchen,'' a pair of 1563 engravings by Pieter van der Heyden after the Flemish master Pieter Bruegel the Elder. But in the first, emaciated diners squabble over meager portions while a gaunt mother funnels food into the mouth of her skeletal infant. Even the caldron over the fire is undersize, sending a skinny column of smoke up the chimney.
In ''The Fat Kitchen,'' voluminous clouds of steam rise from the three pots over the fire, and there's a pig roasting on a spit as well, as rotund burghers and chubby children devour piles of sausage, poultry and other foodstuffs. Whether intended as social commentary or allegory -- Ms. Rogen argues for the latter -- these two images speak forcefully to today's economy.
Another set of paired prints, William Hogarth's ''Beer Street'' and ''Gin Lane,'' from 1751, contrasts the salubrious effects of good old-fashioned British beer with the drunken degeneracy resulting from that more recent Dutch invention, gin. Mayhem reigns in Gin Lane, where drunks lie sprawled in the street, a woman pawns her kettle to buy more liquor and a mother is so preoccupied with taking snuff that she doesn't notice that her baby has slipped out of her arms and is tumbling over a railing. She's a far cry from the prancing redhead in a billowing yellow dress exuberantly pouring a stream of ''Vin Mariani'' into her glass in the 1894 advertising poster by Jules Cheret.
Created by a chemist, Vin Mariani was basically red wine fortified with cocaine. No wonder the lady is prancing. No wonder the drink became wildly popular -- and eventually inspired the alcohol-free variation known as Coca-Cola. There are a few other sidelong references to Coke in ''Art and Appetite,'' but Julia Jacquette gets the last word on our current world of branded edibles marketed with sex. In ''Four Sweets,'' her deadpan 1995 print, a quartet of candy wrappers are emblazoned not with the names of the sugary products they usually contain, but with those of more suggestive, more grown-up treats, like ''Your Eyes'' and ''Your Lips.''
''Art and Appetite,'' Davison Art Center, 301 High Street, Middletown, through Dec. 12. Information: wesleyan.edu/dac or (860) 685-2500.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOOD ENOUGH TO EAT: Works by, clockwise from top left, Claes Oldenburg (''Flying Pizza''), Pieter van der Heyden (''The Fat Kitchen''), Julia Jacquette (''Four Sweets'') and Kathe Kollwitz (''Bread!'').(PHOTOGRAPH BY R. J. PHIL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); SOFT DRINKS (74%); THANKSGIVING (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



726 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Biblical Proportions

BYLINE: By JON MEACHAM. 
Jon Meacham, whose book ''American Lion: Andrew Jackson in the White House'' won a Pulitzer Prize last year, is writing a biography of Thomas Jefferson. In January, he will become the executive editor at Random House.

 BODY:
Unfortunately for the powerful, the plight of the biblical Job is a story with perennial resonance. A man seemingly rich in the gifts life has to offer, happy and blessed, finds himself -- unjustly, from his perspective -- bereft. Protected and apparently invincible one day, he is buffeted as God turns his back on his former beloved, producing rage, confusion and self-pity. In the history of the American presidency, reversal happens time and time again: Lyndon Johnson declining to run four years after his landslide victory in 1964, George H. W. Bush losing re-election after winning the Persian Gulf war of 1991, Bill Clinton in the 1994 midterms, and now Barack Obama.
The connection between the trials of Job and the president's midterm rebuke came to mind as I read what I think is the political book of the season: THE WISDOM BOOKS: Job, Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes (Norton, $35), a new translation and commentary by Robert Alter. A master translator of Hebrew poetry, Alter previously rendered the Pentateuch and the Psalms into affecting contemporary English, and has now turned his attention to what he calls the most mysterious books in the Hebrew Bible. 
The Wisdom books have a ''distinctive identity'' in the context of the narrative of Scripture; there is, Alter writes, ''little . . . that is specifically Israelite.'' Wisdom literature concerns itself with questions both existential and moral: What is the nature of life, and how are we to conduct ourselves as we go about living? These books are linked to a broader, more universalist tradition in the ancient Near East.
Job and Ecclesiastes are especially atypical, for they are philosophically bleak, asking unanswerable questions. In these books God is great, but he is not necessarily good. Why do the innocent suffer and die? Why are some rich, and others poor? Why are some hearts full, and others perpetually broken? The replies are hardly the stuff of Sunday school lessons. As Job says at one point:
Man born of woman, scant of days and sated with trouble, like a blossom he comes forth and withers, and flees like a shadow -- he will not stay.
The texts make for illuminating reading in a season of widespread economic pain and political upheaval. They should assuage the gloom of the defeated and temper the joy of the victors. ''All is mere breath,'' says the narrator of Ecclesiastes, adding, ''That which was is that which will be, and that which was done is that which will be done, and there is nothing new under the sun.''
Outside politics, President Obama thinks of himself less as a professor or community organizer and more as a writer -- a man who observes reality, interprets it internally, and then recasts it on the page in his own voice and through his own eyes. And he is a reader of serious books.
Given that, he might find Alter's new book congenial. John Boehner is not exactly a case of boils, but the president may feel differently at the moment, and thus the story of Job could be of some use to him.
Like Obama, Job was once the highly favored one:
Would that I were as in moons of yore, as the days when God watched over me, when he shined his lamp over my head. . . .
But the Lord withdraws his protection, inflicting pain and death and misery on Job, who cries:
Terror rolls over me, pursues my path like the wind. . . . At night my limbs are pierced, and my sinews know no rest. With great power he seizes my garment, grabs hold of me at the collar. He hurls me into the muck, and I become like dust and ashes.
God is having none of it. He will not be questioned by a mortal, even a mortal whom he once loved and who has honored him. Fairly snarling, the Lord taunts Job from a whirlwind: ''Where were you when I founded earth? / Tell, if you know understanding.''
Four brilliant, contemptuous chapters of the poetry of power follow this sneering query -- or, more precisely, the poetry of God's power and man's powerlessness. They are humbling verses, exhausting even. The reader feels berated and beaten, the victim of a mighty torrent from a boastful, cold, imperious God. (This is how Dick Cheney's vision of unfettered executive power might sound if rendered in ancient Hebrew verse: The Unilateralist in the Whirlwind.)
Job finally surrenders -- he has no other choice -- and humbles himself, recanting his challenge and repenting in ''dust and ashes.'' With that, God tries to make amends with gifts of livestock and new children, and there is a telling line in this bittersweet ending. ''And all his male and female kinfolk and all who had known him before came and broke bread with him in his house and grieved with him and comforted him for all the harm that the Lord had brought on him.''
Commiseration and communion, however fleeting, are thus given their place in the human enterprise, a reminder that life on this side of the grave is ultimately redeemable (and endurable) only through alliance and affection.
The ethos of resignation that pervades Alter's translation is hardly cheering. Ecclesiastes (Alter uses the Hebrew title Qohelet, from the root q-h-l, which means ''to assemble,'' as in the assembling of an audience to hear a philosophical discourse) in particular is all too eloquent and convincing on the question of the provisional nature of life, advising its readers to take comfort in the pleasures of the senses: ''There is nothing better for a man than to eat and drink and sate himself with good things through his toil.'' We associate such views more with pagan writers than with biblical ones. Alter is unsparing in interpreting verses in all their matter-of-factness about the limits of the human condition.
The Wisdom books force readers to face uncomfortable truths. ''There is no remembrance of the first things nor of the last things that will be,'' says Ecclesiastes. In a footnote, Alter observes: ''This is a radical and deeply disturbing idea for the Hebrew imagination, which, on the evidence of many earlier texts, sets such great store in leaving a remembrance, and envisages the wiping out of remembrance as an ultimate curse.''
And yet, and yet. All is not lost, which should give the president some hope amid the shadows, and should keep the Republicans from thinking that their own course will now be unimpeded. ''And I saw that wisdom surpasses folly as light surpasses darkness,'' says Ecclesiastes. ''The wise man has eyes in his head, and the fool goes in darkness.'' The world will never bend itself totally to our purposes, but Job's example offers us some hope: endure in tribulation, and perhaps all may be well.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOON MO KANG
 WILLIAM BLAKE ENGRAVING FROM HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); DESERT STORM (70%); POETRY (67%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GEORGE H W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Wisdom Books, The: Job, Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010



727 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Leading From an Early Age

 BODY:
MY parents divorced when I was a toddler and too young to remember us living together. Alternating between them actually created dual privileges for me.
My mother, a city manager in Dayton, Ohio, was a great role model. She took courses to update her skills, and I'd see her get dressed and go to work every day. My grandmother, the family matriarch, was another strong woman. On weekends we'd visit the beauty shop she owned, where she was also the head stylist. I'd listen to the conversations among my mother, my aunts, my grandmother and the other women and hear how they supported one another.
Summers and vacations I lived in Miami with my dad, who owned a chain of dry cleaners. He was heavily involved with the community. He had a column in a local paper and provided weekly commentary on a South Florida radio show. I worked in the business and also got my first exposure to media. 
When I was in the fifth grade, my two brothers and I lived with my dad during the school year and with my mother summers and vacations. Both my parents had remarried. A few years later, my stepmother wanted my brother and me to attend private school, so we enrolled in Gulliver Preparatory School in Coral Gables and bought a car to drive there. We were part of a wave of black students who were integrating private schools at the time.
I was still getting used to my new environment when my history teacher, Mike Stone, suggested I run for freshman class president. I did. My brother, a junior, was a star football player. I don't know if his actions had anything to do with my winning, but the day of the election speeches he had the football team sit in the front row. I also became vice president of the student council, president of the debate team and captain of the volleyball and tennis teams.
My father wanted me to go to the University of Miami and work at the cleaners, but I decided to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville. Dad was not happy, but eventually came around. To help pay my way, I got a job as a clerk for the director of pediatrics pathology at a hospital on campus. It wasn't easy seeing babies who had died, but I knew that if the doctors could figure out the causes, it could help other babies live.
After graduating with a business degree in 1984, I wanted to strike out on my own. I moved to Los Angeles and got a job as a financial analyst at Knapp Communications, working for Home and Bon Appetit magazines. When Conde Nast bought Knapp in 1993, I moved to New York to be corporate business manager for 13 magazines.
In 1996, I joined Time Inc.'s Money magazine as financial director and was promoted to general manager two years later. I was heading an acquisition, an investment advisory newsletter, when Time's chief executive, Don Logan, got a letter from Ed Lewis, then C.E.O. of Essence, who was interested in a partnership. Don asked me to lead the discussions.
Ed offered me a job, and I joined Essence Communications in 2001 as group publisher. In 2005, I was promoted to my current position. In addition to Essence magazine, we produce a Web site and a music festival in New Orleans. Recently, I spearheaded a venture with Warner Brothers Television to expand our content to the Internet and TV.
I try to stay in the moment, professionally and in my personal life. We recently completed a study on black women that found we're joyful these days, and happier than we were 40 years ago. We've gained in employment status and in economic achievement. Finding a moment to be grateful for success allows for a sense of peace and happiness -- and provides the strength from which we can continue to our next goal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MICHELLE EBANKS: President of Essence Communications, New York AGE: 48 RECENTLY READ: ''Open'' by Andre Agassi FAVORITE VACATION: DESTINATION: Spain (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH MORA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); STEPPARENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (69%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); HISTORY (64%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (73%); MIAMI, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



728 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Happily Adding To a Resume Of Eclectic Jobs

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
When the rest of us go to bed, Veronica Harris goes to work.
An operator at a medical answering service, Ms. Harris, 50, fields calls for doctors at NYU Langone Medical Center, Bellevue Hospital Center and the North Shore University Hospitals out of an office in East Midtown from midnight to 8 a.m. Later, she settles down for a slumber that lasts until the moon rises. She has little company on the graveyard shift: emergency medical technicians, police officers, doormen.
But after a few months of being out of work last year, she is happy to be employed. And this latest job is but one of many eclectic entries on her resume. One of her first jobs, she said, was painting makeup on the mannequins in a SoHo factory alongside the likes of David LaChapelle, now a famous photographer and director, and Angel Estrada, a fashion designer who died in 1989. 
''Sometimes the fancy-schmancy gallery people would sometimes accidentally wander into the factory and think it was artwork,'' Ms. Harris said. Keith Haring was once a visitor, she said.
Then there was that period in the 1980s when she performed stand-up at the New York Comedy Club and the Comic Strip on Second Avenue, where she said she saw Chris Rock when he was starting out.
But her favorite job, she said, was taking messages for famous actors like Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro at a paging and answering service called ActorFone. Her co-workers were often struggling actors, directors and producers. ''We're not talking A list or B list, but Z list,'' Ms. Harris said.
Her next-favorite job was for a phone sales company called Creations. ''We would sell everything from soup to nuts,'' she said, most of which were advertised via late-night infomercial.
''When you dialed the 800 number, I was the person who answered,'' she said. ''You'd be surprised how many insomniacs out there want to buy a set of Ginsu knives.''
After a childhood spent in East Harlem and Woodside, Queens, Ms. Harris found a rent-controlled one-room apartment on East 72nd Street where she and her 10-year-old cat, Kattie Katt, retreat from the harsh glare of daylight. Her rent is $1,096, and she has been there for 16 years.
Last spring, the answering service she worked for went out of business. She took a job with the census, but the months without regular income set her back $6,000 in rent. In August, she found her current job, but during the probationary period, she made only about $150 a week.
''I was starving,'' she said.
She was referred to the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of the seven organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which extended her $500 to pay her arrears. One of the agency's affiliates, Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, arranged a one-time loan to pay her back rent.
Asking for help was embarrassing, Ms. Harris said. ''You sit in those social services offices and they look at you like you're nuts. And you have to sit there for hours.'' Paperwork is often misplaced, she said, and she was rejected for things she never before imagined needing, like food stamps. Her hourly wage of $8.50 was too high for her to qualify.
''If you're single with no dependent children, you really have to be destitute to get help,'' she said. But she says her situation is not unique. Some of her fellow census workers -- some of whom hailed from Wall Street, some of whom ran their own businesses -- were receiving their next-to-last week of unemployment benefits and had to move back in with their parents.
Barring layoffs, Ms. Harris should be able to sustain her meager lifestyle. Not that she will be eagerly looking forward to the endless paperwork that awaits her should she ever need additional help.
''I never want to go through that again,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Veronica Harris works the graveyard shift for a medical answering service. A slide show is at nytimes.com/neediest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY (68%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (68%); RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); RENT CONTROL (65%); SALES & SELLING (63%); INFOMERCIALS (62%); PARAMEDICS (56%); FASHION DESIGNERS (53%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%); CATS (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (52%); CHRIS ROCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



729 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: The Pain Of Change At Boeing

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
ONCE upon a time, major American companies and their employees treated each other as family. The companies provided job security and lifelong benefits; in general, workers were loyal and engaged in their jobs, the occasional strike notwithstanding.
But that relative harmony ended with the advent of globalization, according to ''Turbulence: Boeing and the State of American Workers and Managers'' (Yale University Press, 238 pages), a meticulous and illuminating case study of the nation's largest manufacturing exporter.
The book has four authors with a combination of academic and private-sector backgrounds: Edward S. Greenberg, Leon Grunberg, Sarah Moore and Patricia B. Sikora. Based on their research and experience, they write: ''The very innovations and changes Boeing introduced to remain a leading producer of airplanes -- altered management strategies, pervasive technological changes, extensive outsourcing, broad global partnerships, massive layoffs, and drastically altered ways of working -- produced stress and turbulence in the lives of workers and managers alike.'' 
And the authors say Boeing's woes are a cautionary tale for corporate America because the company suffered despite extraordinary advantages. ''As one of only two manufacturers of large passenger jets in the world, Boeing occupies an extraordinary economic niche, and has had generally enlightened policies, along with strong unions to protect its employees,'' the authors write. ''Many American companies and their employees, in virtually every economic sector, face similarly strong competitive pressures but without Boeing's advantages.''
The book focuses mainly on the period from 1996 to 2006, a span that encompassed the company's merger with McDonnell Douglas, a strike by engineers and technical workers, ethics scandals in top management ranks, and the start of a major new passenger jet project, the 787 Dreamliner.
The research included four separate surveys, in 1997, 2000, 2003 and 2006. They tracked a cohort of 525 continuously employed Boeing workers and managers as well as scores of people who left the company during the course of the study.
After generally worsening between the first and the third surveys, employee attitudes toward the company showed some improvement by the 2006 poll, as some of Boeing's changes took root. But according to the authors, morale issues remained.
One of the book's most notable findings has to do with outsourcing. As seen in the production of the 787 Dreamliner, its new wide-body jet, the effects were decidedly double-edged. Two aims of the outsourcing were to cut costs and to gain access to more foreign markets; both of those goals were largely achieved.
But the parts contracts for the 787 were let to 135 sites in two dozen countries. In theory, the parts could be snapped and fitted together -- much like pieces of a model airplane -- at the Boeing plant in Everett, Wash. Yet in practice, the authors say, the process proved much more complicated, ''something Boeing discovered to its considerable discomfort in 2008 and 2009 when many of the sections neither snapped nor fit properly.'') Production of the 787 would fall two years behind schedule.
Many survey respondents worried that outsourcing would result in ''the bleeding of engineering knowledge and jobs to global partner companies, hurting both Boeing and the United States in the long run,'' the book says. One engineer with 27 years of experience at Boeing opined that ''we are giving away the farm.''
The authors found that the decision by top management to emulate the so-called ''team'' model, pioneered by Japanese companies like Toyota, had a generally negative effect on employee morale rather than promoting a sense of empowerment.
The authors write that ''perhaps more in sorrow than in anger,'' many people said that ''the notion of Boeing as a family, where employees' contributions were respected as a source of competitive advantage, was a thing of the past, replaced by Boeing as a team where people and positions were expendable or interchangeable with other workers around the world.''
Perhaps even more surprising was how disaffection with the changes at Boeing permeated every level of the company. ''Importantly, at the end of our study period, there was no statistical difference between the number of managers and nonmanagers regarding their intentions to quit Boeing,'' the authors report, later adding that ''as the organization flattened, the career ladder became compressed to a step-stool; many managers and employees felt dead-ended as opportunities for advancement seemed to evaporate.''
FOR an academic study, ''Turbulence'' is refreshingly accessible, with a coherent narrative punctuated by no more than the minimally requisite charts, and only occasionally marred by overworking a comparison of the company-employee relationship to a failed marriage.
The interview excerpts are often heart-wrenching, and the long-term, disciplined nature of the authors' research gives their findings credibility. For these reasons alone, ''Turbulence'' should be required reading for anyone at a major American corporation, especially in top management.
Arguably, the single glaring weakness is in the book's prescription for fixing the workplace. Insisting that neither companies nor employees can go it alone, the authors call for government to protect American workers and provide employment opportunities through ''safety net programs based on pooled-risk insurance principles.''
That may sound like an ideal combination of the family model and the team model. But given the outcome of the recent midterm elections, any proposal to enlarge the role of government in the private sector is not something the American public is likely to buy into anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ETHICS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); CASE STUDIES (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); MERGERS (70%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Turbulence (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



730 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: The Pilgrims Were...Socialists?

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Ah, Thanksgiving. A celebration regardless of creed; a time for all Americans to come together after a divisive election year.
But why take a holiday from argument? In these fractious times, even the meaning of Thanksgiving is subject to political debate.
Forget what you learned about the first Thanksgiving being a celebration of a bountiful harvest, or an expression of gratitude to the Indians who helped the Pilgrims through those harsh first months in an unfamiliar land. In the Tea Party view of the holiday, the first settlers were actually early socialists. They realized the error of their collectivist ways and embraced capitalism, producing a bumper year, upon which they decided that it was only right to celebrate the glory of the free market and private property.
Historians quibble with this interpretation. But the story, related by libertarians and conservatives for years, has taken on new life over the last year among Tea Party audiences, who revere early American history, and hunger for any argument against what they believe is the big-government takeover of the United States.
It has made Thanksgiving another proxy in the debate over health care and entitlement spending, and placed it alongside the New Deal and the Constitution on the platter of historical items picked apart by competing narratives. 
There are other debates about Thanksgiving -- whether the first was in Jamestown, Va., or Plymouth, Mass.; whether it was intended as a religious holiday or not. But broadly, the version passed on to generations of American schoolchildren holds that the settlers who had arrived in the New World on the Mayflower in 1620 were celebrating the next year's good harvest, sharing in the bounty with Squanto and their other Indian friends, who had taught them how to hunt and farm on new terrain.
All very kumbaya, say Tea Party historians, but missing the economics lesson within.
In one common telling, the pilgrims who came to Plymouth established a communal system, where all had to pool whatever they hunted or grew on their lands. Because they could not reap the fruits of their labors, no one had any incentive to work, and the system failed -- confusion, thievery and famine ensued.
Finally, the governor of the colony, William Bradford, abolished this system and gave each household a parcel of land. With private property to call their own, the Pilgrims were suddenly very industrious and found themselves with more corn than they knew what to do with. So they invited the Indians over to celebrate. (In some other versions, the first Thanksgiving is not a feast but a brief respite from famine. But the moral is always the same: socialism doesn't work.) The same commune-to-capitalism, famine-to-feast story is told of Jamestown, the first English settlement, in 1607. Dick Armey, the former House majority leader and Texas congressman who has become a Tea Party promoter, related it as a cautionary tale in a speech to the National Press Club earlier this year.
Rush Limbaugh repeats the Thanksgiving story of Plymouth every year, reading it from a chapter in one of his books titled ''Dead White Guys, or What Your History Books Never Told You.'' (Some details change; one year, he had the Pilgrims growing organic vegetables.)
The version is also taught in a one-day course called ''The Making of America,'' which became popular with Tea Party groups across the country after Glenn Beck recommended the work of its author, W. Cleon Skousen, who died in 2006. Tea Party blogs have reposted ''The Great Thanksgiving Hoax'' from a Web site celebrating the work of the libertarian economist Ludwig von Mises, a favorite of Ron Paul devotees. The post concludes: ''Thus the real reason for Thanksgiving, deleted from the official story, is: Socialism does not work; the one and only source of abundance is free markets, and we thank God we live in a country where we can have them.''
Leave aside the question of whether this country is on the march to socialism (conservatives say yes, and blame the Democrats). What does the record say?
Historians say that the settlers in Plymouth, and their supporters in England, did indeed agree to hold their property in common -- William Bradford, the governor, referred to it in his writings as the ''common course.'' But the plan was in the interest of realizing a profit sooner, and was only intended for the short term; historians say the Pilgrims were more like shareholders in an early corporation than subjects of socialism.
''It was directed ultimately to private profit,'' said Richard Pickering, a historian of early America and the deputy director of Plimoth Plantation, a museum devoted to keeping the Pilgrims' story alive.
The arrangement did not produce famine. If it had, Bradford would not have declared the three days of sport and feasting in 1621 that became known as the first Thanksgiving. ''The celebration would never have happened if the harvest was going to be less than enough to get them by,'' Mr. Pickering said. ''They would have saved it and rationed it to get by.''
The competing versions of the story note Bradford's writings about ''confusion and discontent'' and accusations of ''laziness'' among the colonists. But Mr. Pickering said this grumbling had more to do with the fact that the Plymouth colony was bringing together settlers from all over England, at a time when most people never moved more than 10 miles from home. They spoke different dialects and had different methods of farming, and looked upon each other with great wariness.
''One man's laziness is another man's industry, based on the agricultural methods they've learned as young people,'' he said.
Bradford did get rid of the common course -- but it was in 1623, after the first Thanksgiving, and not because the system wasn't working. The Pilgrims just didn't like it. In the accounts of colonists, Mr. Pickering said, ''there was griping and groaning.''
''Bachelors didn't want to feed the wives of married men, and women don't want to do the laundry of the bachelors,'' he said.
The real reason agriculture became more profitable over the years, Mr. Pickering said, is that the Pilgrims were getting better at farming crops like corn that had been unknown to them in England.
As for Jamestown, there was famine. But historians dispute the characterization of the colony as a collectivist society. ''To call it socialism is wildly inaccurate,'' said Karen Ordahl Kupperman, a historian at New York University and the author of ''The Jamestown Project.'' ''It was a contracted company, and everybody worked for the company. I mean, is Halliburton a socialist scheme?''
The widespread deaths resulted mostly from malaria. Tree ring studies suggest that the settlement was also plagued by drought.
But the biggest problem, Professor Kupperman said, was the lack of planning. The Virginia settlers came to the New World thinking that they could find gold or a route to the Pacific Ocean via the Chesapeake Bay, and make a quick buck by setting up a trading station like others were establishing in the East Indies.
''It was just wishful thinking,'' she said, ''a failure to recognize that these things are really, really difficult.''
The Tea Party's take on Thanksgiving may have its roots in the cold war.
Samuel Eliot Morison, the admiral and historian who edited Bradford's ''Of Plymouth Plantation,'' titled the chapter about Bradford ending the common course ''Indian Conspiracy; Communism; Gorges.''
But it is important to note that he was writing in 1952, amid great American suspicion of the Soviets. ''The challenges of the cold war and dealing with Russia are reflected in the text,'' Mr. Pickering said.
Likewise, Cleon Skousen, the author of the ''Making of America'' textbook, was an anticommunist crusader in the 1960s. (His term for Jamestown was not socialism but ''secular communism.'')
''What's going on today is a tradition of conservative thought about that early community structure,'' Mr. Pickering said.
William Hogeland, the author of ''Inventing American History,'' agreed. ''Across the political spectrum, there's a tendency to grab a hold of some historical incident and yoke it to a current agenda,'' he said. ''It doesn't always mean there's no connection, but often things are presented as historical first, rather than as part of the agenda first.''
And indeed, many can play this game.
Professor Kupperman, for instance, said the Jamestown story reminded her mostly of the Iraq war.
''It was kind of like the idea that the Iraqis would greet us with flowers,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIERONYMUS) (WK1
 WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHILDREN (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010



731 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Internet Giants Foster, and Threaten, Innovation Economy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a regular column for The Bay Citizen
Among the business people gathered in San Francisco last week for the annual Web 2.0 Summit, there was little doubt that the second Internet boom will be just as transformative as the first. The connected pocket computer (otherwise known as a smartphone) and the social Web have created monster new markets, as more than one speaker noted, and the money is flowing accordingly.
Much of that money is flowing to the Bay Area, home to what are arguably the four most important companies of today's consumer Internet: Google, Apple, Facebook and Twitter. Apple and Google are the second and sixth most valuable public companies by market cap in the country, respectively. The other two are commanding private-market valuations in the billions. 
But the business contours of the industry are still taking shape, and how they evolve over the next couple of years will go a long way toward drawing the new economic geography of Silicon Valley.
Will the Internet be dominated by a handful of highly controlling giants, each operating huge technology platforms that dictate the nature and pace of innovation? Or will there be a more decentralized, chaotic environment, in which companies of all sizes rise and fall based on their ability to build great products and create relationships with consumers and business partners?
Apple's iPhone and iPad, Google's search-and-advertising service and Android mobile operating system, and Facebook and Twitter have all emerged as towering forces commanding verdant landscapes of technical, social and business innovation. For many start-up companies, this creates a moment of great opportunity: iPhone apps, Facebook games and Twitter add-ons have already produced a lot of very successful businesses.
Zynga has become one of the fastest-growing company in the history of the Internet economy by building social games on Facebook. You don't have to walk far in San Francisco's South of Market district to find engineers who have built highly profitable iPhone apps or are poised to cleverly tap the tens of millions of messages sent daily on Twitter.
But the platforms can exert tremendous control if they choose, wiping out entire tiers of upstart companies simply by implementing a new feature. Plan to create a distinctive interface for Twitter? What happens when Twitter decides, as in the case of the Tweetie iPhone app, to buy one of your competitors and make it the ''official'' product?
Evan Williams, the Twitter co-founder, was asked on stage last week what areas were safe for third-party developers, and he wasn't able to give very clear guidance, noting that the company in its early days had not envisioned itself as a platform for others. Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook was a little more forthcoming -- no Facebook-built social games are planned -- but not much.
Apple, meanwhile, has exercised iron-fisted control over iPhone and iPad apps. As many developers have ruefully discovered, the company may simply refuse to approve your app product for no particular reason.
The maneuvering among these giants, and the business opportunities provided by their new platforms, have been very, very good for people with the right skills (or, as The New York Times reported this month, for San Francisco landlords with the right buildings). Google just said it would give everyone in the company a 10 percent raise; competition for talent is getting more heated by the day.
And if this second Internet boom seems less frothy than the first, that's mainly because it's not riding atop a strong national economy like the first boom in the late 1990s. Even so, within the industry there is already talk of boom having crossed over into bubble. Whatever you want to call it, there is a huge amount of money and energy pouring into the Internet start-up economy right now.
But it's not hard to envision a day when the platform companies, powered by the enormous amount of highly specific personal information that they collect from their customers every day, begin to mature and show less interest in innovation than in harvesting the fruits of their dominant market positions. (See Microsoft circa 1995, or I.B.M. circa 1980). That will not be a happy moment for the Bay Area's innovation economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WEB 2 (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (77%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); STARTUPS (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (71%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (71%); GEOGRAPHY (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%); APPLE INC (73%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (73%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (73%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (73%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (73%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (73%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



732 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Put A Price on Bank Errors

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
KUDOS to the Congressional Oversight Panel for publishing a thoughtful and thorough report last week on the mortgage documentation mess. It argued that, yes, in fact, these paperwork problems may have significant implications for banks, investors and the stability of the financial system.
Since mortgage paperwork flaws became front-page news this fall, the banks caught in the glare have characterized the problems as technicalities that are easily remedied.
Their responses sound a lot like Mike Wazowski, the assistant scarer in ''Monsters, Inc.,'' who is reprimanded for not turning in his daily reports. ''Oh, that darn paperwork,'' he tells his supervisor. ''Wouldn't it be easier if it all just ... blew away?''
But the mortgage paperwork problems aren't blowing away, and the panel report analyzes their implications in fine detail. It also questions the view, held by some overseeing the Treasury Department's loan modification effort, that mortgage documentation errors have no impact on the program. 
Phyllis Caldwell, chief of the Treasury's Homeownership Preservation Office, articulated the Treasury's view in her testimony before the panel, according to the report. She said false affidavits and other processing flaws weren't problematic for the government's modification plan, known as the Home Affordable Modification Program or HAMP.
Because loan modifications don't require physical production of a mortgage and note, the Treasury has not been examining whether document flaws have an impact on its efforts, she said.
Ted Kaufman, the former Delaware senator who leads the panel, saw it differently on Thursday. ''Financial institutions all say everything is fine, but prudence would dictate that we make sure,'' he said. ''Not that we don't trust the banks, but let's take a hard look at this thing.''
In an interview on Friday, Tim Massad, acting assistant Treasury secretary for financial stability, clarified his agency's position. ''We weren't saying these problems aren't serious,'' he said. ''They are extremely serious, they are clearly widespread, they do pose dangers and they need to be fixed. But based on the evidence today, we didn't see a systemic risk to financial stability.''
STILL, the oversight report points out problems that arise if servicers modify mortgages under HAMP when they don't actually have the right to do so.
First, the report said, borrowers may either be granted or denied modifications improperly. And paperwork errors may mean the government is paying modification bounties of $1,500 a mortgage to the wrong banks.
Treasury officials told the oversight panel that if ownership of the mortgage was not properly transferred, the government could claw back incentives paid to the wrong institution.
But such a solution may not be feasible, the report concluded. And even if the Treasury chased down a loan servicer to return the incentive money it received in error, the government would have essentially handed that bank an interest-free loan for the period it kept the funds.
Given the size and the ambitions of HAMP, all of these problems loom large. As of October, the program had generated about 520,000 active permanent loan modifications.
The report also said a lack of concern at the Treasury over paperwork flaws might lead borrowers to conclude that HAMP traffics in double standards. After all, borrowers have to provide reams of documents before receiving a modification -- even though servicers don't have to prove ownership of the note underlying a property, the report said.
But the meat of the report comes in its analysis of the threats that false loan documentation may pose to banks' balance sheets and to financial stability in the broader economy. These perils are related to the possibility that banks will have to buy back loans from investors if they were based on false documentation, or if the proper records required when setting up mortgage securities trusts were not kept, the report said.
''There are scenarios whereby wholesale title and legal documentation problems for the bulk of outstanding mortgages could create significant instability in the marketplace,'' the report stated.
Litigation from investors in mortgage-backed securities is likely, the report concluded. ''Claimants will contend that the securitization trusts created securities that were based on mortgages which they did not own,'' the report said. ''Since the nation's largest banks often created these securitization trusts or originated the mortgages in the pool, in a worst-case scenario it is possible that these institutions would be forced to repurchase the M.B.S. the trusts issued, often at a significant loss.''
Consider a lawsuit in the United States Bankruptcy Court in Camden, N.J. It involves a Countrywide loan and a note that was supposed to have been deposited in a mortgage pool issued by the lender in 2006.
In an opinion published last Tuesday, the chief judge, Judith H. Wizmur, cited testimony from an executive at Bank of America, which bought Countrywide. The lender's practice, the executive said, was ''to maintain possession of the original note and related loan documents.'' Countrywide did this even though the pooling and servicing agreement governing the mortgage pool that supposedly held the note required that it be delivered to the trustee, the court document shows.
If Countrywide's practice was to hold onto the note, then investors in this pool and others may question whether the security was constructed properly and legally and may be able to require Bank of America to buy back their securities.
Larry Platt, a partner at the law firm K & L Gates in Washington, spoke on behalf of Bank of America on Friday. He said the New Jersey decision did not constitute a basis for broad mortgage repurchase requests.
''We believe the loan was sold to the trust even if there wasn't an actual delivery of the note,'' he said. ''The risk of repurchase is going to depend on the unenforceability of the loan and we think the loan is enforceable. We think this is an aberration; Countrywide's practice was to deliver the notes.''
While it is hard to assess the damage that suits like these could cause, the authors of the Congressional report estimated $52 billion.
The bulk of that would be shouldered largely by the four largest banks -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo. The panel arrived at this estimate using analysis provided by investment firms and taking into account possible loan losses, an assessment of successful put-back rates and assumptions of losses to be borne by the banks on mortgages they are forced to repurchase.
Those banks have already reserved almost $10 billion for expenses related to buybacks, in addition to $11.4 billion in costs they have already incurred, the report said. ''It is not inconceivable that the major banks could recognize future losses over a 2-3 year period,'' it said.
ONLY time will tell if the panel's estimates are low, high or right on the money. The report is painstakingly temperate.
But financial burdens for big banks are not all that's at stake here. Perhaps even more significant are the social costs associated with mortgage paperwork improprieties and any attempt to brush them under the rug.
''If the public gains the impression that the government is providing concessions to large banks in order to ensure the smooth processing of foreclosures,'' the report contends, ''the people's fundamental faith in due process could suffer.''
And along with it, their faith in the government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%)

PERSON: TED KAUFMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



733 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: The New Club Kids

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
WHOEVER said New York night life is dead hasn't been out recently.
Despite the economic gloom, or maybe because of it, a crush of late-night parties, luscious lounges and chest-thumping clubs are opening across the city. The meatpacking district is a tangle of new velvet ropes. D.J.'s are trekking to the nether reaches of Bushwick. The Lower East Side has spilled over into Chinatown. And every week, murmurs of a new hot spot seem to reach a fever pitch.
Leading the charge is a fresh cast of night life entrepreneurs, tastemakers and promoters who are carving out new party spaces in the city's ever-gentrifying neighborhoods. The scenemakers profiled in this section include individuals and duos; some are newbies, others are night life veterans taking it to the next level. They are resurrecting old haunts, spinning new sounds and blurring the line between art and party.
The latest crackdown by the Bloomberg administration has done little to spoil their fun. One pair even has day jobs, but they've managed to shake things up after dark. 
Their profiles are below.
MIA MORETTI
''It Girl'' D.J.
With apologies to Samantha Ronson and Leigh Lezark of the Misshapes, D.J.'ing is a boys' game. ''Girl D.J.'s don't mix, they just play off iTunes and get hired just because they are girls,'' Mia Moretti said.
She doesn't believe that, of course -- not when she's lugging her turntables and MacBook Pro around town, loaded with 100-plus gigabytes of music, and spinning at all the right parties, like Le Bain, Prabal Gurung's after-party and Chelsea Clinton's wedding.
Having cracked Billboard's Top 10 dance chart two years ago with a B-more-style remix of Katy Perry's ''Hot 'N Cold,'' Ms. Moretti was also named Best D.J. by Paper magazine last month, along with her frequent collaborator, the electric violinist Caitlin Moe.
Not bad for an Oakland, Calif., native who got her start spinning for ''Entourage'' clones in Los Angeles clubs after graduating from U.C.L.A. She decamped for New York three years ago ''for no good reason at all, except that I was sick of L.A.,'' she said.
It didn't take long to book gigs. Her Goldilocks-as-Warhol-superstar looks probably didn't hurt. (She is sometimes compared to Chloe Sevigny.) Neither did her keen, paparazzi-ready fashion sense. At a recent Saks party, she showed up in a hooded floor-length Jean Paul Gaultier lace-up dress covered in metal grommets.
But her broad musical taste and her snap ability to read a room are what give her an edge. ''If I walk into 1 Oak or Avenue, I have to be really aware of what people are responding to,'' she said. ''Put on an Ace of Base song and everyone clears the dance floor in 30 seconds. Then you have four promoters running up to you screaming.''
In those situations, she'll dig deep for the unexpected. ''Everyone's having a good time, and I'll just put on a Tina Turner song,'' said Ms. Moretti, channeling her girlish side. ''That eighth grader in me just comes out.''
AGE 26
CRASH PAD East Village one-bedroom apartment cluttered with musical instruments and D.J. gear.
FIRST GIG The lobby of the Standard hotel in Hollywood. ''The only rules were I couldn't play Top 40 -- from any decade -- and I had to play vinyl.''
FAVORITE PARTY Sunday Funday at Goldbar.
POSSE Other D.J.'s like Lucas Walters, Mike Nouveau, Blu Jemz, Jus Ske, B-Roc and DJ Equal. ''It's hard to drag out my friends who are stylists or work in a gallery, to a club at 3 a.m.''
IDOLS DJ AM. ''Before I saw him, I didn't know how to differentiate between a playlist and a D.J.''
GETTING IN ''I'll never go somewhere without calling first. You can't just show up, be a cute girl, smile at the door guy and get in. That doesn't fly in New York. New York is serious.''
TOM JACKSON and ABI BENITEZ
Gay Diarists
Sometimes outsiders make the best insiders.
Tom Jackson was fresh from Australia, a gay man in his 20s looking for good times. But party zines, he said, only offered ''cliched'' guides to ''trashy'' bars in Chelsea.
So after one particularly restless night, he and a fellow bar buddy, Abi Benitez, decided to Web-publish their own. ''We wanted to focus on the kind of parties we were going to,'' he said.
The first issue of Gayletter -- a highly selective guide to alterna-gay culture -- arrived in friends' in-boxes in July 2009 and has since become a must-read for the kind of downtown gay man whose Thursday night might start at an Envoy gallery opening and end up at Ryan McGinley's party at BEast.
Mr. Jackson, an advertising copywriter by day, and Mr. Benitez, a magazine art director, make a point of attending the events they write about, be it a Brooklyn drag party or yoga in a park. Not all are specifically ''gay,'' although the choices do reflect their personal sensibilities, and, as Mr. Benitez explained, ''we just happen to be gay.''
The quest is to get ahead of buzz-worthy events ''right before they blow up,'' Mr. Jackson said. That means lots of old-fashioned journalistic hustle -- and nights out, up to five a week.
That's not easy for guys with day jobs. ''The other two days are our detox days,'' Mr. Benitez said. ''We drink a lot of water and reflect on our lives -- I personally like to talk to my plants.''
Then it's out and about again. ''We never try to be mean,'' Mr. Jackson. ''We're fans of all the people we write about -- otherwise we wouldn't bother writing about them.''
AGES Tom, 30; Abi, 29
CRASH PADS Tom lives in a one-bedroom walk-up in the East Village filled with cactuses. Abi lives in a Lower East Side studio with minimal furnishings.
DRESS TO IMPRESS Tom: A.P.C. raw-denim jeans, Steven Alan button-down, Vanishing Elephant desert boots. Abi: Phillip Lim cashmere sweater, Band of Outsiders button-down, black Calvin Klein T-shirt.
FAVORITE SONG ''Somebody to Love Me,'' by Mark Ronson & The Business International, featuring Boy George and Andrew Wyatt.
FAVORITE DRINK ''Beer or wine,'' said Tom, since he needs to keep his wits. ''I can't get too drunk.''
POSSE Ladyfag, Justin Bond, Mickey Boardman, Earl Dax, Michael Musto.
GETTING IN ''Since we do Gayletter, people at the door generally know us, so we get in all right,'' said Tom. ''It's not like the old days, where we used to have to sneak in doing the I'm-on-the-phone-trick -- which actually works.''
MATT ABRAMCYK
Alt Impresario
Maybe it's the difficult-to-pronounce name, but he's been tagged as the ''other guy'' from the Beatrice Inn.
But Matt Abramcyk (pronounced a-BROM-chick) may finally be stepping out of Paul Sevigny's shadow. Last week , after months of soft teasers and calibrated hype, Mr. Abramcyk opened Bunker, a sepulchral nightclub under 22 Ninth Avenue, tucked beneath the familiar triangular brick building in the meatpacking district.
The former hedge-fund analyst already runs two downtown bars, Smith & Mills and Warren 77. But Bunker, which he runs with Brett Rasinski, is his first full-fledged club. (The Beatrice was technically a lounge, since it had no cabaret license.)
Bunker's moodily lighted interior unifies multiple 19th-century brick vaults, which are said to have housed a Civil War-era hospital and, more recently, an S&M club. Whether Bunker becomes the much-anticipated ''next Beatrice'' remains to be seen.
At 2 a.m. on a recent Saturday, the subterranean club was hopping with Williamsburg artist types in knit caps sipping pilsners and dancing to vintage disco. It was a far cry from the four-inch Louboutins and too-short skirts clamoring at street level.
''We want to have a place for our friends who are our age and older,'' said Mr. Abramcyk, who grew up in Midtown. ''It's a very special feeling to be underground. The only thing I would liken it to is the catacombs of Paris.''
AGE 32
CRASH PAD TriBeCa loft with reclaimed marble walls and antiques.
FAVORITE PARTY ''Paisley Dalton D.J.'s a party at Bowlmor on Wednesday nights. He just plays early '70s disco. It's pretty awesome.''
DRESS TO IMPRESS ''I used to wear fedoras a lot. But now I wear a lot of knit caps from the hardware store. ... They insulate you when you slam your head against a drainage pipe. Being in the restaurant business, you're always in the basement.''
IDOLS ''Serge Becker's places were not about the sale. They were always about the fun. But he's not doing nightclubs anymore. ... So there's really nobody I look up to.''
POSSE Paul Banks from Interpol; Curtis Kulig, a graffiti artist; Craig Robinson, a men's wear designer; Sean Avery, New York Ranger.
GETTING IN ''As a kid, I got rejected all the time. If you dress nicely, show up with a good attitude and a pretty girl, you can cut down on your rejections. But no one can ever be 100 percent. In anything. That's my philosophy.''
WILLIAM ETUNDI
Warehouse Provocateur
Illegal warehouse parties in Brooklyn are almost a cliche: sign up online, receive a enigmatic e-mail and find yourself writhing with thousands of half-naked strangers in some industrial shell. And that's thanks in no small part to William Etundi, who started the popular Danger parties in 2004.
His Halloween bash last month, spread across five warehouses in Bushwick, was the biggest ever -- until the police came and shut part of it down. ''When you have 8,000 people show up at your doorstep, it's clear you're not underground,'' Mr. Etundi said. ''So there's no reason to pretend.''
After some soul-searching, Mr. Etundi decided to end the warehouse bacchanals. But the party's not over: the Brooklyn artist and street activist is reimagining Danger as a high-ticket, high-art extravaganza.
Instead of hordes of L-train riders paying $20 at the door, he envisions young art patrons paying as much as $250 a head and arriving by limos. Invitations will not only be selective -- from 250 to 2,000 -- but take the form of questions. ''The applications will be a series of cryptic questions that will be judged solely by me and my own cryptic -- entropic? -- sense of who I want to be at the event,'' he said.
The first app party is set for New Year's Eve, an ''Eyes Wide Shut''-inspired gala at an undisclosed ''but spectacular'' site in Brooklyn, he said. Guests will be asked to arrive in masks. ''There will be steam baths, masseuses, feasts of fruit and acts of performance that will literally touch the crowd.''
A trial run is planned for Art Basel Miami Beach next month. A photo studio, he said, will be transformed into an otherworldly ice palace -- complete with servers dressed by Kaytee Papusza, whirling aerialists and large-scale art installations by Aaron Taylor Kuffner and Ryan O'Connor.
AGE 31
CRASH PAD Dumbo loft with a whirlpool tub open to the living room and its views of the East River.
FIRST GIG Roving warehouse party in 2001 that attracted 1,500. ''It was absurd and gorgeous.''
IDOLSMatthew Barney, Bjork, Stanley Kubrick.
FAVORITE CLUB ''I don't stand on line,'' he said.
FAVORITE SONG ''If I Had a Heart,'' by Fever Ray.
DRESS TO IMPRESS Stylized black eye makeup and a simple black Armani suit with yellow daisy on the lapel.
DRINK ''I don't drink. When I was kid, I was a sober raver. I love dancing alone to music. I think part of it is my African blood, I need the beat.'' (His father is from Ghana.)
CARLOS QUIRARTE and MATT KLIEGMAN
New Pornographers
''Sleaze'' is a loaded term. But Carlos Quirarte and Matt Kliegman, the arbiters of cool behind the artsy Smile cafe on Bond Street and the chic Jane Ballroom, don't mind.
If they did, they would have picked someplace beside a topless bar to open their naughty nightclub, the Westway. And they would have removed the four stripper poles, the mirrored walls and, most importantly, the stripping.
Instead, the scruffy-looking pair, who are partial to work boots and plaid shirts, will give only a light face-lift to the former Westside Gentleman's Club, a windowless white barn on an industrial stretch of West Street. A few Lucite walls and leather banquettes are being added; otherwise, the essence of a strip club will live on, especially on Sundays, when go-go boys take to the stage, and Mondays, when female dancers will strip down and shimmy topless.
Set to open next month, the Westway may be the first stripper joint in the city that caters to indie rockers and East Village baristas since Billy's Topless in Chelsea closed during the Giuliani years. Indeed, the Westway owners say they want to achieve the same sort of ironic, lap dance-free, this-is-not-a-real-topless-club feel.
As for the rest of the week, the Westway will channel a more traditional club, with a dance floor that jams to 1970s rock. But even on those nights, the old club's gritty aura will still be baked in, they hope. A club ''is like a pizza oven,'' Mr. Quirarte said. ''You've got to cook in it for a long time before the pizza starts to taste just right. You've got to dirty up the oven.''
AGES Carlos, 34; Matt, 27
CRASH PADS Carlos lives with his girlfriend in a one-bedroom in the East Village; Matt lives in a one-bedroom walk-up in NoLIta, overflowing with LPs and DVDs.
FIRST GIG Carlos hosted parties at the Pussycat Lounge downtown, while Matt organized parties at local bars and clubs as a New York University undergrad.
IDOLS Sean MacPherson, Eric Goode, Keith McNally, Lynn Wagenknecht. ''Glamorama is one of my favorite books,'' Carlos said, referring to the 1998 Bret Easton Ellis novel chronicling '90s Manhattan club life.
DRINK Tequila on the rocks (Carlos). Budweiser (Matt).
DRESS TO IMPRESS Carlos: Kevlar-infused Deth Killers jeans, military-style boots, San Francisco Giants knit cap. Matt: Earnest Sewn jeans, Cole Haan work boots, vintage cable-knit sweater.
POSSE The actor Justin Theroux, the artist Nate Lowman, the filmmaker Chiara Clemente, the artist and tattooer Scott Campbell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GENERATION NEXT: From left, some of the club kids: Abi Benitez and Tom Jackson, Matt Abramcyk, Mia Moretti, William Etundi, Matt Kliegman and Carlos Quirarte. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
MOVERS: Mia Moretti, above, D.J.'ing at Le Bain. Below, Abi Benitez and TomJackson, the producers of the online newsletter Gayletter. Bottom, Matt Abramcyk in his newly opened Bunker club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SHAKERS: William Etundi, above, of the Danger parties. Below, Matt Kliegman and Carlos Quirarte at their new club, Westway. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); MUSIC (69%); CELEBRITIES (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



734 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMICS: 7,000 Ways to Fix the Deficit

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Reduce the size of the military rather than reduce pay for noncombat members of the military. Impose a millionaire's tax rather than cut deductions for high-income households. Cap the growth of Medicare spending rather than raise the eligibility age.
These were among the choices made by readers who completed the online you-fix-the-deficit puzzle that accompanied a Week in Review article last Sunday. Since the puzzle went online, there have been more than one million page views, and more than 11,000 posted Twitter messages about the puzzle, most including their own solution. The Times analyzed those solutions, each of which cut at least $1.345 trillion from the 2030 deficit, to get a sense of readers' choices. 
This sample is obviously not scientific. But many readers asked for a tabulation of the responses, and taken together, they offer a glimpse of specific preferences within two groups: those who far prefer spending cuts, and those who want to mix cuts with tax increases. The responses also point to a deep divide between those two sides, illustrating why a solution is difficult.
The single least popular choice was allowing the expiration of the Bush tax cuts on income below $250,000 a year. Fewer than 10 percent of the solutions included that option. But when it came to tax cuts for incomes above $250,000, people's opinions appeared to diverge according to their political views. Those who preferred spending cuts -- a conservative group, in all likelihood -- generally wanted this tax cut to remain in place. Among those who closed the deficit mostly with tax increases -- probably a liberal group -- the expiration was the single most selected policy.
The most popular option among all respondents? Reducing the military to less than its size before the Iraq war -- included in about 80 percent of the solutions posted to Twitter. But cutting pay and benefits for the military was a choice of only 40 percent.
Given that Twitter users skew young, one arguable surprise was the reluctance to raise the eligibility age for Social Security (above 67, as is now scheduled) or Medicare (above 65). The four options that would have increased those ages, to either 68 or 70, were all among the 10 least popular. Making other changes to those programs -- like reducing Social Security benefits for high earners and capping Medicare growth by cracking down on high-cost hospitals and doctors -- received more support.
In the last week, readers and bloggers have also suggested dozens of cuts that did not appear among the puzzle's options. Anthony Tedesco, in an e-mail, argued for a tax on sodas and a higher federal tax on alcohol. On Wednesday, a bipartisan group led by Pete Domenici, a former Republican senator from New Mexico, and Alice Rivlin, a Democratic budget expert, released a deficit plan that included a soda tax. It would raise about $15 billion a year in today's dollars, roughly as much as eliminating farm subsidies or cutting foreign aid in half.
Others wanted more aggressive versions of existing options. Some readers, for example, wanted to cut entire departments, like Agriculture and Education. As is, the puzzle allows readers to cut aid to states 5 percent, cut the pay of civilian workers 5 percent, reduce the size of the federal work force 10 percent and eliminate 250,000 government contractors. Together, those options would close 7 percent of the 2030 budget gap. A larger set of cuts to domestic programs other than Social Security and Medicare might close 15 or 20 percent.
On the tax side, Felix Salmon, a commentator for Reuters, wrote that the options hewed too closely to the current code. He said he wished that he could have imposed a wealth tax or abolish, rather than reduce, the mortgage deduction. Mr. Salmon also suggested subjecting all income to the payroll tax that finances Social Security, rather than merely raising the ceiling on taxable income beyond the current level of $106,800, as the puzzle included.
The puzzle remains online, and version 2.0 may lie in the future. Comments continue to be welcome. Given how far Congress seems from enacting any deficit-reducing proposal, this debate will probably be around for a long time.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FELIX SOCKWELL) CHARTS: ''The People Have Tweeted'' Here are the budget preferences of 6,989 Twitter users who posted solutions to our deficit puzzle by 8 p.m. Thursday. It is not a scientific sample. For instance, the results below could reflect a younger demographic than the population as a whole. (SOURCES BY TWITTER, TOPSY.COM
 AMANDA COX, MATTHEW ERICSON, DAVID LEONHARDT, BILL MARSH AND KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



735 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK 2011 SUZUKI SX4 SPORTBACK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: More Than a Small Car, It's a Co-Star

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SCHULTZ

 BODY:
TESTED 2011 Suzuki SX4 SportBack
WHAT IS IT? A compact wagon that daydreams of being a rally car.
HOW MUCH? Base price, $17,244; as tested, $17,644.
WHAT MAKES IT RUN? A 2-liter 4-cylinder (148 horsepower, 140 pound-feet of torque); 6-speed manual or continuously variable automatic transmission.
IS IT THIRSTY? Relative to its competitors, only slightly more so. 
ALTERNATIVES:Hyundai Elantra Touring SE, $19,715; Kia Soul Sport, $19,190; Nissan Versa SL, $17,650; Scion xD, $15,620.
FOR the American ''Top Gear'' segment Big Star, Small Car, the professional skateboarder Tony Hawk recently put a Suzuki SX4 SportBack through some hot laps at a former airstrip in Southern California. The segment will feature a different celebrity each week in the SportBack, attempting to go faster over a course than previous guests had managed.
Afterward, Mr. Hawk told a Suzuki representative that the SportBack was almost too good for the task at hand.
Indeed, the Suzuki is something of a pleasant surprise, taking cues from mud-romping rally cars rather than the Heathrow-rental-fleet econoboxes featured on the equivalent segment of the British ''Top Gear,'' Star in a Reasonably Priced Car. The SportBack has aggressive front and side aero skirts; 17-inch, 10-spoke alloy wheels; prominent fog lamps; and a pert little rear spoiler -- all included in the base price.
This SX4 differs markedly from the version that was reviewed on these pages three years ago. That model, now called the SX4 Crossover, is the country's least-expensive passenger car with all-wheel drive. The SportBack eschews that system for front-wheel drive, and also receives stiffer springs and shocks, Dunlop sport tires and a slightly lower suspension, shedding more than 150 pounds in surgery.
The only modifications for ''Top Gear'' duty were the installation of racing seats, a roll cage and a camera rig.
Each celebrity tackling El Toro's turns will have to master the SportBack's standard 6-speed manual transmission. The overdrive sixth gear hints at straightaway-gobbling prowess, but as I learned during a recent trip through the Hudson Valley of New York state, it merely lowers the engine's revs and ever so slightly bumps up the fuel economy.
With the stick shift, the SportBack is rated at 22 m.p.g. in town and 30 on the highway, but thanks partly to miles of backups approaching the Woodbury Common outlet mall, I averaged a gentleman's 25. (I also bought three shirts.)
Both on the New York Thruway and on two-lane roads wending through the Catskills, the car's steering was precise and confident, traits that should inspire the show's track neophytes to attack the corners. A good thing, considering they will need as much exit velocity as their nerves can bear.
The SportBack's 2-liter, 148-horsepower 4-cylinder engine is, I was informed by a Suzuki representative, related to the 2.4-liter unit powering the brand's nimble Kizashi sedan, but here it bleated and chugged, sending interior plastics abuzz as it approached its peak horsepower churn of 6,200 r.p.m. And for all the noise, the SportBack labored to build speed, reinforcing the manufacturer's estimate of 0-to-60 m.p.h. acceleration in a lackluster 10.8 seconds.
Meanwhile, gear changes snapped my head backward for all the wrong reasons. If timing the shifts on a 500-horsepower, $135,000 Porsche 911 Turbo can be mastered in an afternoon, surely those on a $17,000 Suzuki should be, too. I, however, did not succeed.
Despite its dynamic faults, the 2011 SportBack is a compelling package, with generous headroom, a handsome center console, robust safety features and, a $400 option on my test car, the latest in Bluetooth hands-free telephone technology. If only that feature could dial in more powertrain grunt and a better shift linkage, the SportBack would truly be -- in the words of Tony Hawk -- almost too good.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ACTION ROLE The ''Top Gear'' Suzuki SX4 is prepped with Michelle Rodriguez at the wheel and The Stig standing by. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SKATEBOARDING (75%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (74%); EXTREME SPORTS (70%); MOUNTAINS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



736 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Teaching For America

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
When I came to Washington in 1988, the cold war was ending and the hot beat was national security and the State Department. If I were a cub reporter today, I'd still want to be covering the epicenter of national security -- but that would be the Education Department. President Obama got this one exactly right when he said that whoever ''out-educates us today is going to out-compete us tomorrow.'' The bad news is that for years now we've been getting out-educated. The good news is that cities, states and the federal government are all fighting back. But have no illusions. We're in a hole. 
Here are few data points that the secretary of education, Arne Duncan, offered in a Nov. 4 speech: ''One-quarter of U.S. high school students drop out or fail to graduate on time. Almost one million students leave our schools for the streets each year. ... One of the more unusual and sobering press conferences I participated in last year was the release of a report by a group of top retired generals and admirals. Here was the stunning conclusion of their report: 75 percent of young Americans, between the ages of 17 to 24, are unable to enlist in the military today because they have failed to graduate from high school, have a criminal record, or are physically unfit.'' America's youth are now tied for ninth in the world in college attainment.
''Other folks have passed us by, and we're paying a huge price for that economically,'' added Duncan in an interview. ''Incremental change isn't going to get us where we need to go. We've got to be much more ambitious. We've got to be disruptive. You can't keep doing the same stuff and expect different results.''
Duncan, with bipartisan support, has begun several initiatives to energize reform -- particularly his Race to the Top competition with federal dollars going to states with the most innovative reforms to achieve the highest standards. Maybe his biggest push, though, is to raise the status of the teaching profession. Why?
Tony Wagner, the Harvard-based education expert and author of ''The Global Achievement Gap,'' explains it this way. There are three basic skills that students need if they want to thrive in a knowledge economy: the ability to do critical thinking and problem-solving; the ability to communicate effectively; and the ability to collaborate.
If you look at the countries leading the pack in the tests that measure these skills (like Finland and Denmark), one thing stands out: they insist that their teachers come from the top one-third of their college graduating classes. As Wagner put it, ''They took teaching from an assembly-line job to a knowledge-worker's job. They have invested massively in how they recruit, train and support teachers, to attract and retain the best.''
Duncan disputes the notion that teachers' unions will always resist such changes. He points to the new ''breakthrough'' contracts in Washington, D.C., New Haven and Hillsborough County, Fla., where teachers have embraced higher performance standards in return for higher pay for the best performers.
''We have to reward excellence,'' he said. ''We've been scared in education to talk about excellence. We treated everyone like interchangeable widgets. Just throw a kid in a class and throw a teacher in a class.'' This ignored the variation between teachers who were changing students' lives, and those who were not. ''If you're doing a great job with students,'' he said, ''we can't pay you enough.''
That is why Duncan is starting a ''national teacher campaign'' to recruit new talent. ''We have to systemically create the environment and the incentives where people want to come into the profession. Three countries that outperform us -- Singapore, South Korea, Finland -- don't let anyone teach who doesn't come from the top third of their graduating class. And in South Korea, they refer to their teachers as 'nation builders.' ''
Duncan's view is that challenging teachers to rise to new levels -- by using student achievement data in calculating salaries, by increasing competition through innovation and charters -- is not anti-teacher. It's taking the profession much more seriously and elevating it to where it should be. There are 3.2 million active teachers in America today. In the next decade, half (the baby boomers) will retire. How we recruit, train, support, evaluate and compensate their successors ''is going to shape public education for the next 30 years,'' said Duncan. We have to get this right.
Wagner thinks we should create a West Point for teachers: ''We need a new National Education Academy, modeled after our military academies, to raise the status of the profession and to support the R.& D. that is essential for reinventing teaching, learning and assessment in the 21st century.''
All good ideas, but if we want better teachers we also need better parents -- parents who turn off the TV and video games, make sure homework is completed, encourage reading and elevate learning as the most important life skill. The more we demand from teachers the more we have to demand from students and parents. That's the Contract for America that will truly ensure our national security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); NEW ECONOMY (60%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



737 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: In a Parallel Universe, Campaign Candor

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative
I was sitting in a West Side high school, listening to the mayoral candidate Gery Chico and thinking about Warren Beatty.
Mr. Chico, a former top aide to Mayor Richard M. Daley, on Tuesday unveiled an impressive education plan, including a focus on early childhood education -- birth to age 5 -- and a dramatic lengthening of a shamefully short school day and year, by two hours a day and 24 days a year.
It reflected a strong knowledge of the system -- he was president of the Chicago Board of Education during the mayor's historic mid-1990s takeover. My qualms involve how we'd pay for his high-minded initiatives and how the teachers union would ever agree to work much harder. 
Mr. Chico points to potential efficiencies and to achieving revolutionary change via collective bargaining. But while finding his plan commendable, I wondered if he, like candidates at all levels, feels restrained as to how honest he can be on certain combustible issues.
In the 1998 movie ''Bullworth,'' Mr. Beatty plays a down-on-his-luck United States senator liberated by a contract he has put out on his own life. Believing he has only three days to live, he dispenses with platitudes and political correctness.
He tells a black church audience that his appearance, as a white, is only about getting a nice photo taken. This crowd, he proclaims, won't be taken seriously until it forks over the big bucks needed to buy access and clout, like whites.
Similarly, he tells a heavily-Jewish movie industry group in Beverly Hills that it produces junk to get outrageously rich. He even snipes at politicians who pander to the group by disparaging the Rev. Louis Farrakhan.
Ah, imagine something similar in our mayoral election! It's why I asked experts in various areas, including municipal finance, transportation, education and the arts, for help in conjuring Bullworth-like honesty. What might the candidates say if unencumbered by the usual political and tactical restraints of a campaign? ''Chicago, we're going bankrupt and have to sharply cut the public work force and benefits paid employees,'' suggested finance mavens not affiliated with any candidate. ''We've got 37,000 workers, and 80 percent of the budget is personnel. When it comes to pensions, raise the retirement age, reduce automatic increases, regardless of inflation, and revisit what pensions are for. Are they deferred compensation for those who can work or a safety net for those who can't?''
The thrust of my education watchers was: ''The teachers union is just one part of a complex education problem. But Mayor Daley, and his handmaiden, Arne Duncan, were petrified about a walkout and constantly caved. How many workers do you know, on any continent, getting 4 percent increases this year? Folks, I'm willing to take a strike.''
A chat with one Chicago Public Schools official prompts this: ''Can it really be that a system with 41,000 teachers saw just two get canned last year for incompetence? And just 41 were involved in the process by which terrible teachers are flagged for possible removal? Those numbers defy the laws of gravity.''
Outsiders knowledgeable about municipal manpower inspire this: ''Three guys on a garbage truck, 50 ward superintendents and, then, assistants to the superintendents?! Puhleese. Get lean or get out, and give private contractors a chance to compete for trash pickup as they do elsewhere.
''Firefighters can be true heroes. But we're grossly overstaffed, with too many firehouses and relying on a model based on a long-gone era of more fires. They shouldn't serve as a 911 response center. Many have sweetheart jobs, work a second gig and retire early with a nice pension. The party is over.
''As far as cops, we're down by 2,000, but if any of my opponents claims they can fill those positions, they're lying.''
When I asked about bosses, not just the too-often-targeted rank-and-file, I got this for a Chicago Bullworth: ''In some departments, way too many managers. The era of deputy commissioners stretching to the horizon is over.''
Privatization is easy to bash, given the parking meter deal. But smart folks who concede the pros and cons lead to the declaration, ''When it comes to Midway Airport, it's smart. Airports worldwide are going private and generating far more retail and restaurant revenue. And, unlike the meter mess, this will bring in strong annual revenue.
''Take Midway revenues and pump them into mass transit. We should have done that with the meters. You just can't keep jacking up C.T.A. fares.''
Finally, members of a constituency rarely mentioned in any campaign, the arts, have our liberated candidate concluding, ''Cynics will scoff, but make Chicago home for a truly great annual festival of the performing arts. Create an American counterpart to the Edinburgh Festival, using Millennium Park as the focal point.
''We've got godawful poverty, depressing segregation and too much crime. But one has to dream and cultivate the soul. And this would be a lot better than a one-shot Summer Olympics. I ask for your vote.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gery Chico stood in line with his nominating signatures on Monday at the Cook County Board of Elections office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); BUDGETS (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



738 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; TALK; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 2003 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Columbus

BYLINE: By TIM MURPHY

 BODY:
Lean, tattooed and hunky in the way of a young Henry Rollins, Brian Reaume is living the life of a gay indie Brooklyn or Bay Area artist. He lives in what real estate agents call a ''transitional'' neighborhood, in a house filled with midcentury furniture and quirky art by him and his friends. In a small shop on a funky strip of cafes, bars and galleries, he sells his paintings along with the vintage housewares that he collects with the shop's co-owner, Nancy Carlson, who lives upstairs. Two years ago he created ''There's No Truth in Silence,'' an installation in his studio -- which is among a warren of artists' spaces in an old warehouse -- that drew thousands one weekend with its controversial use of the American flag, a swastika, a cross and a chair emblazoned with the word ''fag.'' 
But the life that Reaume leads isn't in Brooklyn or San Francisco. His tatty-cool neighborhood isn't Bushwick or the Tenderloin; it's Kenmore Park in northeast Columbus, Ohio, in, as he put it to me on a recent visit, ''a very good pocket in the middle of the ghetto.'' And that funky strip with his shop, Birchwater Studios, is North High Street in Columbus's Short North, which has gone from sketchy to stylish in the past 15 years.
Reaume, 37, grew up outside Detroit and 10 years ago was on his way to an artist's life in New York. But his brother, already in Columbus, needed a roommate for a year. So Reaume came -- and never left. ''I fell in love with it,'' he told me at his shop.
''There's so much opportunity to show work here.'' Reaume has found a market for his abstract canvases and sculptures along with income as a window-display builder for Victoria's Secret, whose owner, Limited Brands, has its headquarters in Columbus.
He's also the father of an 11-month-old son, Thadeus, having been the sperm donor for friends, a lesbian couple, and he lives in a four-room 1948 Lustron ''kit home'' that he bought for $63,000. Rather than move to New York, Reaume said, ''I turned Columbus into New York -- and made my environment what I wanted.''
In Ohio's capital city, gay men, lesbians and bisexuals make up about 6.7 percent of the population of about 750,000, according to a 2006 study by the UCLA School of Law's Williams Institute. That's a far cry from more than 10 percent in San Francisco, Atlanta, Boston, Minneapolis and Seattle, but it's higher than most Midwestern cities, including Chicago (5.7 percent). And in several Columbus ''gayborhoods'' -- like the Short North, German Village and the lesbian stronghold of Clintonville -- the gay quotient is far higher than 6.7 percent.
That's due in part to Ohio State, the nation's second largest university, with 55,0000 students. The campus, adjacent to the Short North, is a youth-driven city unto itself that draws thousands of young people from all over the Midwest each fall, among them lesbians, gays and transgender students hungry for the relative openness of the city and the campus. (Campus Pride, a national gay college group, just ranked O.S.U. among the nation's gay-friendliest campuses.) ''You have this new crop of hot young guys that come every year,'' said Brent Clevidence, a co-owner of Level, a sleek, year-old restaurant and bar in the Short North that is popular with the gay crowd. ''It's just a very vibrant community.''
Besides Limited Brands (the owner of Henri Bendel and Bath & Body Works as well as Victoria's Secret), Abercrombie & Fitch is also based in Columbus, and both companies lure top design and retail talent -- many of them gay -- from larger cities. They come and stay for at least a few years, maybe buying a jewel-box Victorian or Craftsman fixer-upper for as little as $200,000. ''We have tons of crossover here from New York and San Francisco, people constantly moving in and out,'' said Chris Hayes, 37, an Ohio native who moved to Columbus after several years in New York City. ''Columbus really turned itself around in the late '90s,'' said Hayes, the editor in chief of Outlook: Columbus, the town's glossy gay monthly. ''We're not recession-proof, but we're not a manufacturing economy, so we've done O.K.'' Four years ago, he paid $281,000 for a 1,400-square-foot loft downtown. ''It's like my New York dream apartment, but it was affordable.''
According to longtime residents, Columbus has long had a robust gay population. But like many other cities in the past two decades, it's become more visible and woven into the town's broader culture and night life. ''When I first started going to the bars, in the '80s, you had to go into blank doorways or down alleyways,'' said Jackie Vanderworth, a stylish, statuesque woman who was holding court one raucous Saturday night at Union, a sprawling restaurant and bar on North High Street. ''Now you have neon signs and people holding hands in the Short North.'' Vanderworth has been openly transgender at her job at the local Fox TV affiliate since 1996. ''They didn't bat an eye,'' she explained of her colleagues' reaction to her gender transition. ''Our news director has me over for dinner parties.''
While life here seems easygoing for gay folks, it's especially so if you learn to love college football. The Ohio State Buckeyes, the reigning Big Ten champion, create citywide mania. ''You can either dive right into the O.S.U. craziness when you move here,'' Hayes said, ''or you can hate your life for six months.'' I was in town on game day -- when the Buckeyes, to no one's surprise, trounced small-fry Ohio University, 43-7 -- and seemingly everyone in town was wearing scarlet-hued Buckeyes shirts and strings of buckeyes around their necks. That included a dozen members of Scarlet and Gay, O.S.U.'s G.L.B.T. alumni group, plus their friends and lovers, whom I joined at their tailgate party.
''It's pretty much a spiritual experience when you walk in here and see thousands of your brothers screaming like a fraternity,'' said Troy Fabish, a real estate agent with a Buckeye-red pompom bobbing from his jeans pocket. ''You feel like you're part of the family.'' He said he was even comfortable enough for public displays of affection, and kissed his boyfriend to prove it. During the game, the men took no pains to hide their particular enthusiasm, exclaiming their crushes on certain players. Everyone around them seemed happy to have them in the mix.
That welcoming spirit isn't surprising, given that Columbus is a fairly progressive city, its broad-minded tone set by Michael B. Coleman, the black Democratic mayor since 2000. ''The G.L.B.T. community is important to the city's future and economic vitality,'' Coleman told me, adding that he is working to get the City Council to pass a bill giving health benefits to the domestic partners of city workers.
The fact that such a benefit, available in more than a dozen states, would be a major step forward is a reminder that Columbus is still a gay oasis in progress, in a state that, though it voted for Barack Obama in 2008, remains deeply conservative in some parts. Ohio attracted national attention during the 2004 election when the state passed a referendum, by a two-thirds majority, banning any version of gay marriage whatsoever. It was a devastating margin to Tom Grote, 46, the son of the founder of the region's 200-store Donatos Pizza chain. ''I totally thought of leaving the state,'' he told me, recalling the hurt of seeing houses with pro-ban signs in so-called liberal Columbus neighborhoods. Instead, he and a handful of other influential Ohio gays founded Equality Ohio, the state's first well-funded gay-rights lobby,
focusing on efforts like passing a state bill banning work and housing discrimination against homosexuals.
Grote met Rick Neal, then an advocate for refugee issues in Washington, D.C., in 2006. Today the two live in a refurbished 1907 brick house on Schiller Park in German Village. They're the fathers of 19-month-old Amoret, whom they adopted from a local agency. (Since Ohio forbids gay couples from adopting a child together, Grote is the legal father and Neal has co-custody rights.)
Neal said the three of them attracted more gawkers on a recent trip to Germany than they do around town. ''Even in Berlin, Munich -- holy cow, their eyes fell out,'' he said. ''Here, we might get a few stares out at the big mall in Easton. But no comments. This is the Midwest -- people are polite.'' Grote smiled. ''What makes Rick really proud,'' he said, ''is when African-American women say he does a nice job with Amoret's hair.''
Grote and Neal, a Milwaukee native, said Columbus, with its quaint neighborhoods and network of gay parents, is a perfect fit for them. But it can feel limited if you yearn for the cosmopolitanism of bigger cities. Such is the plight of Gabriel Mastin, 28, a personal stylist at Nordstrom who is known to many as the town's most fashionable young man. The night I met him, Mastin showed up with three of his female friends for dinner at Rigsby's Kitchen, the city's culinary pioneer in the Short North. He wore chunky glasses, a silk scarf tied around his neck, pleated trousers made by his tailor and sneakers by John Varvatos for Converse, and he carried a vintage periwinkle American Tourister airline bag.
''Columbus isn't awful if you find your niche to plug into,'' he said. ''But it can be tough. It's very Abercrombie-cornfed-jock-I-eat-at-Max-&-Erma's-and-Bob Evans. Some of the older gay men are a little more sophisticated.'' Mastin grew up in Mansfield, Ohio, and told me that his parents have rejected him for being gay. ''We do holidays and birthdays, but that's about it.'' In Columbus, he's found a surrogate family of established, mostly partnered gay men with whom he has thrown himself into activism. Still, he said, ''I want to make major bank and move to London. When I meet someone here who has style, I'm like, 'Who are you? Can we be friends?' '' Most of the time he just tries to get his male Nordstrom clients out of pleated Dockers and into skinny jeans.
Yet Mastin is doing more in Columbus than just biding his time. ''Gay Pride here is amazing,'' he told me over wine and Donatos Pizza at Grote and Neal's house. (Amoret was brought down to say good night in her red Donatos onesie.) ''We get up and dance on boxes with our shirts off every year.''
''Well,'' Grote corrected him, ''maybe every few years.''
ESSENTIALS, COLUMBUS, OHIO
Hotel: The Lofts Large, comfortable rooms in a refurbished downtown brick building near the Short North. Bike rentals available. 55 East Nationwide Boulevard; (614) 461-2663; 55lofts.com; doubles from $179.
Restaurants and Cafes: German Village Coffee Shop A neighborhood staple since 1981. 193 Thurman Avenue; (614) 443-8900. Jeni's Splendid Ice Creams The hit artisanal ice-cream chainlet, featuring flavors like Salty Caramel. 714 North High Street; (614) 294-5364; jenisicecreams.com. Level Dining Lounge Sleek hangout with margarita martinis and decadent sweet potato fries. 700 North High Street; (614) 754-7111; levelcolumbus.com; entrees $8 to $17. Rigsby's Kitchen The 24-year-old Short North game changer serves top-notch Mediterranean fare. 698 North High Street; (614) 461-7888; rigsbyskitchen.com; entrees $19 to $33. Union Cafe Attracts a gay following with its vaguely Asian decor and menu. 782 North High Street; (614) 421-2233; unioncafe.com; entrees $11 to $20.
Bars: AWOL Hole-in-the-wall gay bar in quiet, less gentrified Olde Town East. 49 Parsons Avenue; (614) 621-8779. Bodega The Short North's mixed-crowd hipster dive. 1044 North High Street; (614) 299-9399. Exile Gay bar popular with the leather crowd. 893 North Fourth Street; (614) 299-0069. Wall Street Nightclub Popular lesbian dance club in the Downtown District. 144 North Wall Street; (614) 464-2800.
Shops: Birchwater Studios Brian Reaume and Nancy Carlson's Short North gallery and vintage furnishings store. 815 North High Street; (614) 598-1830; birchwaterstudios.com. Collier West Stylish home goods and antiques shop in the Short North. 787 North High Street; (614) 294-9378; collierwest.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the heartland From left: Union Cafe, a popular gay and lesbian hangout in Columbus, Ohio
the artist Brian Reaume in his studio. (M2 70)
 Style counsel Gabriel Mastin at the Short North design shop Collier West. (M2 72) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN ULRICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); PAINTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%)

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



739 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: The Hunt for Jobs Sends the Irish Abroad, Again

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- Antoinette Shields had a plan to keep her tall, blue-eyed son, Kevin, close at hand. When she took over her boss's construction company in 2002, she hoped to retire at 55 and give her son the business.
But it is not working out that way. Mrs. Shields's company, which once employed 26 people, is now down to 8, still afloat in Ireland's collapsed economy, but barely. Though Kevin graduated from college two weeks ago, she has no work for him, and he expects to emigrate to the United States or Canada next year.
''That is where we are,'' Mrs. Shields said. ''Sad, isn't it?''
Just three years ago as Ireland's economy boomed, immigrants poured in so fast that experts said this tiny country of 4.5 million was on its way to reaching population levels not seen since before the great potato famine of the mid-19th century. The conditions that prompted the Irish statesman Eamon de Valera to express the hope that Ireland's children would no longer ''like our cattle, be brought up for export'' seemed like quaint history. 
That has abruptly turned around.
As this country struggles with its newest financial crisis, and the European Union and the International Monetary Fund prepared a bailout package that is likely to run into the tens of billions of dollars, Ireland seems set to watch yet another generation scatter across the globe to escape desperate times. Many are headed to Australia, where a mining boom has produced construction jobs in the western part of the country. But others are going to Canada, New Zealand, the United States, Britain and even the Middle East or Asia.
Mrs. Shields, who lives in Carlingford, a village about 48 miles north of Dublin, said she knew a number of parents whose children were already gone. The parents gather at the local golf club ''trying to take strength from each other,'' she said.
Experts say about 65,000 people left Ireland last year, and some estimate that the number may be more like 120,000 this year. At first, most of those leaving were immigrants returning home to Central Europe. But increasingly, the experts say, it is the Irish themselves who are heading out -- unsure that they will ever come home.
''Things totally flipped in a very short time,'' said Edgar Morgenroth, an economist with the Economic and Social Research Institute in Dublin. ''And if you don't want to go, it can be quite painful.''
Those left behind say it is hard for them, too. Conan O Broin, 23, who works for the Union of Students in Ireland, said the sendoffs in his hometown, Clondalkin, were now so frequent that everyone knew the drill, assembling at a pub for a final round of drinks.
''We call the parties Irish wakes,'' said Mr. O Broin, whose two best friends left for Australia this year, after nine months without work. ''It's pretty bad. It really affects you.''
Ireland's economy shrank 7.1 percent last year and remains in recession. Signs of the downturn are everywhere. Dublin's main shopping area is full of for-rent signs and handwritten posters in store windows advertising special one-day sales. Mr. Morgenroth sits in his office overlooking an almost vacant office complex.
Some of those emigrating are desperate for a paycheck. Others are just disgusted that Ireland should find itself in such a state, and they fear they will be paying for years -- with tax increases and pay cuts -- for a mess they did not create. Bernard McNerney, 25, who has a job, said he would leave next year to teach English in South Korea and see where life took him after that.
''I don't want to be here with everyone complaining and people in a genuinely bad way,'' he said.
The latest moves to shore up Ireland's economy follow more than two years of harsh austerity measures by the government. Taxes have been raised and salaries cut for nurses, professors and other public workers by up to 20 percent. This month, the government announced that an additional $6 billion would need to be cut from the budget next year.
Some economist argue that emigration can be a useful safety valve in hard times, reducing the numbers of the unemployed and avoiding the debilitating effects of long-term unemployment.
In fact, the number of Irish signing up for unemployment benefits dropped about 3 percent last month. The government pointed to the change as a sign of an improving economy. But opposition parties quickly disputed that analysis, saying the change was really caused by emigration.
And there are risks, too, that Ireland's best and brightest -- the very people who could help turn things around -- are leaving.
Edwina Shanahan, the marketing manager of Visafirst, a company that helps emigrants settle abroad, said there might be some truth to this. ''A lot of the countries giving visas are quite choosy,'' she said. ''You need to be highly qualified and have recent job experience to get into Australia. They are getting the best among us.''
Orla Neary and Joseph Rice decided to move to Australia three months ago, when they realized it could be years before they could afford their own home.
Mr. Rice, 25, is in training to become an electrician, but he would have trouble getting his license here -- there are so few jobs that he cannot log the required hours. His brother has won awards as an electrician, and even he cannot find work, Mr. Rice said.
Ms. Neary, 22, just finished her training as a midwife. But because of austerity measures the national health system is unlikely to hire anyone soon. She takes temporary work when she can get it. Some weeks, she will get called to cover for three shifts. But other weeks, none.
''Things here are not going anyplace,'' Mr. Rice said recently. ''This place is just stuck.''
Ireland experienced its sharpest population drop during the 19th-century potato famine when the population dropped sharply from 6.5 million. More than a million people emigrated, and another million died. But there have been other waves of emigration during economic downturns in the 1930s, the 1950s and the 1980s.
While most emigrants plan to return someday, most of those early emigrants never did. But people who left in the 1980s did come back in the 1990s, encouraged by the Irish government. Ireland benefited from their experiences abroad. ''The drain of the '80s was the gain of the '90s,'' Mr. Morgenroth said.
The Irish have emigrated so often that almost everyone has relatives in several countries. ''Emigrating is a cultural norm, even if it is not a cultural preference,'' said Brian Lucey, an economics professor at Trinity College in Dublin. ''The Irish know how to do it. They build networks and take care of each other.''
Kevin Shields has relatives in the United States, even an uncle who was in the Marines, and he has entered the lottery for a green card. With a degree that qualified him to estimate the cost of construction projects, he is also contacting construction companies in Canada. ''It is depressing listening to the news here,'' he said. ''There is nowhere as bad as here.'' But he hopes to be back in Ireland eventually.
Mrs. Shields said she took comfort from the fact that emigration today was not what it used to be. ''It's not like when we were waving goodbye from a dock,'' Mrs. Shields said. ''There are lots of ways to stay in touch -- Google, Facebook. A lot of mothers around here are learning a lot about computers these days.''
''We'll come out of it,'' she added. ''And maybe we will come out of it stronger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orla Neary and Joseph Rice said they recently decided that they would need to move from Ireland to Australia to find work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Flipped Migration: Over the last two years, more people left Ireland than entered the country. And experts expect emigration to rise further by year's end. (Source: Central Statistics Office Ireland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); POTATO FARMING (76%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); FAMINE (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



740 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: A Proposal to Reform Social Security

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I disagree with Peter Orszag's assertion that the co-chairmen of the deficit-reduction commission have handed the White House ''a highly progressive reform plan for Social Security'' (''Safer Social Security,'' column, Nov. 15). At least, not unless you really believe these notions:
Annual cost of living adjustments, which do not fully reflect the rising cost of health care, are too generous. 
Future retirement benefits for low- and moderate-income people under the age of 50 should be reduced because the life expectancies of the better off are increasing at a greater rate than theirs.
Retirement, disability and survivors protections should be cut by as much as 36 percent for young people entering the work force today.
Americans should not be stampeded into cutting increasingly critical Social Security protections. It's time to ask those who have reaped the benefits of runaway tax cuts and growing income inequality to pay their fair share, not cut Social Security.
It's time to ''scrap the cap,'' that is, to require contributions on all earnings above $106,800. Doing so would fully address the projected shortfall for 75 years. And it would provide a few extra dollars to improve benefits.
Eric Kingson Manlius, N.Y., Nov. 15, 2010
The writer, a professor of social work at Syracuse University and co-director of Social Security Works, was adviser to the 1982 National Commission on Social Security Reform and to the 1994 Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement and Tax Reform.
To the Editor:
Peter Orszag discusses the deficit commission's proposal to make payroll taxes more progressive by representing the proposed increase as one that would reduce untaxed wages from 15 percent to 10 percent -- without clarifying that these percentages refer to the total of American wages.
Currently, the cap of $106,800 means that someone with a salary of $4 million earns $3,893,200 on which no Social Security tax is owed. What we ought to be doing is not just raising the ceiling a little on taxable Social Security income but eliminating it outright, once and for all, while maintaining a ceiling on what the Social Security Administration pays out. And there should be a floor on payments into the system, so that lower-wage earners pay no Social Security tax.
There is a crucial difference that we should face in what people mean by ''preserving Social Security'': whether a Social Security account is ''personal'' or an individual contribution to a general, social responsibility reservoir.
The elimination of the Social Security tax ceiling should be high on the Obama administration's to-do list -- without compromise.
Leslie Brisman New Haven, Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
The deficit commission proposes raising the age at which one can receive Social Security benefits to 69 by 2075, to reflect a longer-living population.
The unstated assumption is that people in their late 60s will have a choice about working until the proposed new retirement age, just as they now have a choice to work until the current retirement age of 67.
In reality, a great many people in their 60s have lost or are about to lose their jobs and have little hope of finding another, even when the economy recovers. Raising the retirement age would extend the period of receiving no income for many people approaching 70, because, much as they would like to or need to work, few employers will hire them.
To suggest that people approaching 70 simply work another two years until their Social Security benefits kick in is tantamount to saying ''Let them eat cake.''
Neil Chesanow Montvale, N.J., Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
Several of your articles and columns about the proposed reforms of President Obama's deficit commission have mentioned Social Security reform in the context of balancing the budget.
As defined in the Social Security Act of 1935, funds collected via the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (F.I.C.A.) payroll tax go into the Social Security trust fund and can be used only to pay out benefits. By law, general revenue monies may not be used to pay Social Security benefits. And as Peter Orszag has described well, slight changes to the program will guarantee Social Security solvency for the remainder of the century.
How can we Americans have a reasonable discussion of budget deficit reduction when Social Security is constantly pulled into the mix? We don't have a deficit because Grandma and Grandpa receive Social Security checks each month. The deficit has nothing to do with Social Security payments, retirement age or the salary ceiling for F.I.C.A. taxes.
Janet Ellingson Salt Lake City, Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
Why not encourage more people to defer Social Security payments by improving the incentives for deferral and communicating them better? Under current Social Security law there is an 8 percent increase in benefits, but only up to age 70, for people who choose to wait until after their full retirement age (66 in my case) for payments to start.
If the annual increase was more than 8 percent and if the deferment option continued beyond age 70, maybe more people who could afford to defer would do so, helping to slow the fund's outflows.
Alice Bray New York, Nov. 16, 2010
The writer is a former benefits lawyer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HIERONYMUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); COST OF LIVING (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



741 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Bills Mount For Travel By Trustees Of Pensions

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLLAN. 
jgollan@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Grappling with a $919 million shortfall and looming insolvency, six of nine trustees overseeing San Mateo County's pension system needed an oracle. So they decamped to Honolulu last week for a conference that cost the retirement plan an estimated $23,570. 
Along the white beaches of Waikiki, the group reflected on the crisis that threatens to wipe out their pension's assets by the end of 2024. Among the seminars were ''Top Ten Ways Trustees Leave Money on the Table'' and ''Correcting Funding Shortfalls.''
About 4,500 investment managers, public pension trustees and administrators attended the event at the Hawaii Convention Center. Among them were at least nine other Bay Area pension officials, including some trustees and a top administrator who oversee multibillion-dollar retirement funds for Alameda, Contra Costa and San Francisco Counties. These pension plans, together with San Mateo's, have spent roughly $890,000 on travel for some staff members and trustees since the start of 2008, The Bay Citizen has found.
In some counties the trips have included stays in luxury hotels, some just a few miles from officials' homes, others in more exclusive destinations like Beverly Hills. San Francisco, San Mateo and Alameda Counties limit trustees' travel expenses in some form; Contra Costa trustees have no overall cap. Watchdog groups say the travel expenses raise questions of propriety, given that taxpayers nationwide are on the hook for staggering shortfalls tied to double-digit investment losses. Local governments are scrambling to improve their sagging assets through austerity measures.
While the travel expenses are small relative to overall fund assets, watchdog groups say they add up in a recession that has forced taxpayers to shoulder growing shortfalls.
''I think taxpayers would be outraged to know that the money they are being asked to set aside for workers is being squandered on extravagant travel,'' said Marcia Fritz, president of the California Foundation for Fiscal Responsibility, a nonprofit group that supports pension reform.
Trustees and administrators overseeing the public employee pension funds in those four Bay Area counties say their travel is financed by investment returns from their funds. Critics counter that because tax dollars help underwrite pension funds, any dividends should be reinvested.
Under state law, pension trustees have a responsibility to manage assets prudently. Fund officials say they absorb crucial strategies at conferences that inform their investment decisions in a volatile economy.
''A lot of great ideas come from the dialogue that comes from the back and forth with other attendees,'' said Gary Amelio, executive director of the San Francisco Employees' Retirement System.
David Bailey, chief executive of the San Mateo County Employees' Retirement Association, concurred, saying: ''The trustees will spend the vast majority of their time in training. The hotel conference room looks just like every other one.''
John Gioia, a Contra Costa pension trustee and chairman of the county's Board of Supervisors, agreed that ''there are clearly some conferences that add value.''
''But when people abuse it,'' Mr. Gioia added, ''it makes the whole system look bad.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); COUNTIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); BEACHES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



742 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Pampered Critics? No, Critics in Pampers

BYLINE: By ROB WEINERT-KENDT

 BODY:
WATCHING a critic watch a show to gauge his reactions and then speculate on how he'll review it is a dubious occupation best left to theater press agents. But when the ''critic'' in question is unlikely ever to file a review because he still has his baby teeth, there's nothing to do but guess at his ''review'' of a theatrical experience, in much the same way all parents of toddlers constantly search the moods and whims of their young charges: Bottle? Diaper? Intermission?
So recently when I took my 16-month-old son, Oliver, to his first proper play, ''Egg and Spoon,'' at the New Victory Theater in Times Square, I was left to interpret, indeed largely imagine, what he made of it. Why, you may wonder, would I even bother with theatergoing at his tender age?
''Egg and Spoon,'' an import from the Italian-British Lyngo Theater Company, exemplifies a trend in European children's theater over the past two decades to create work for ever younger audiences. In 2006 the Swedish company Unga Klara staged ''Baby Drama,'' created for those 6 months to a year old. 
Theaters in the United States like the New Victory have become beachheads for this kind of work, but the economics of audience size -- ''Egg and Spoon,'' for instance, works best with a total audience of 30, including kids and guardians -- give Europe's state-financed theaters an edge. Only a few American companies (like Imagination Stage in Bethesda, Md., and Children's Theater Company in Minneapolis) have created shows for this age bracket.
The official age advisory for ''Egg and Spoon'' is 2 to 5, but on its Web site, lyngo.co.uk/home.php, Lyngo lists the show's demographic as 3 and under. The 40-minute show, which closes Sunday, certainly seemed accessible to even the shortest attention spans as two performers (Patrick Lynch and Airlie Scott) led a gentle, multisensory tour through the four seasons. A prop tree grows, loses its leaves in the fall, then morphs into a blossoming cherry tree by spring. A glowing egg gestates, then cracks open at the climax to reveal a squirming yellow bird.
Our little audience squirmed too, but seemed on the whole receptive, curious -- mesmerized might be too strong a word. But the youngsters made entirely appropriate squeals and gasps.
To help me report on this baby-theater trend, I enlisted two fellow theater writers, each with his own young child: Jason Zinoman, who writes for The New York Times and Slate, and his nearly 2-year-old daughter, Penny; and Eric Grode, who has written for The Times and is the author of a new book about ''Hair,'' and his 2 1/2-year-old son, J.
During the regrouping after the show at Sardi's, our three wee would-be critics -- lodged in high chairs and mostly quieted by helpings of food -- listened in on their dads' fumbling attempts to figure out what their charges thought of ''Egg and Spoon.'' These are excerpts from the conversation.
ROB WEINERT-KENDT Not to speak for our kids, but they all seemed to warm up to it by the end, in their own ways.
ERIC GRODE My son was wary at first. He was hanging back, but when they brought out the butterflies -- that's when things really started to pick up. [To J.] Did you like ''Egg and Spoon''? [J. nods yes.]
JASON ZINOMAN It was impressive how at the end, when the bird came out of the egg, the kids fairly spontaneously all came onstage at the same time. They weren't manipulated into doing that, or if they were, it was a very deft piece of manipulation.
GRODE I also noticed that there was no ''Shrek'' stuff in it -- you know, at a two-hour movie that parents are going to have to sit through, the writers make a point of throwing us a few bones. I like the fact that this was just like: ''Parents, this isn't about you, this is for the kids. It's 40 minutes, you can handle it.''
[Noises off. Oliver offers Penny a crust of bread.]
WEINERT-KENDT My question as a parent is how this compares to a Music Together class or the like -- a sort of ritual activity where kids play along and presumably take away something after a period of weeks. What can they possibly take away from a one-time special event like this?
ZINOMAN A class like that is more of a social thing. This had the trappings of a night out. Going to Times Square was in some ways the best part of the show. I think Penny really enjoyed that. And then, what's also cool is the juxtaposition: Times Square is this huge, crazy spectacle, and then you go into a theater that's quiet, very simple, and she was just as hypnotized by it.
WEINERT-KENDT I was struck when they projected stars on the ceiling; I don't think Oliver's ever seen actual stars. And he enjoyed the falling paper leaves, but he's only just touched real fall leaves in the past few weeks, so I doubt that he sees a distinction. He's not thinking what's real and what's not. It's all real.
GRODE Right, the whole representational thing isn't there. Things haven't been presented yet.
WEINERT-KENDT One exception was the winter hibernation section, where they had the kids pretend to go to sleep.
ZINOMAN Penny got that, and she wasn't happy about it. She didn't want to go to sleep. When they brought out the pillow and the blanket and the lights went down, she knew exactly what that was.
WEINERT-KENDT That's one moment I cherish. When they said, ''We're going to pretend to sleep, but we're going to dream,'' and then the puppet fish came out, Oliver actually lay down and turned his head to watch the fish. On some level, I think he really was pretending he was dreaming.
ZINOMAN That's part of the difference between this and a Music Together class. This had a narrative.
GRODE Well, any egg introduced in Act I must hatch by Act V. Even Oliver could tell you that.
ZINOMAN This did feel like fairly traditional theater. I think Penny would have had an even better time if the show was even more interactive than it was.
WEINERT-KENDT In the baby theater I've looked at, the challenge is to see how much you can perform versus play with the audience. Yes, this was ultimately a pretty traditional piece of theater, but to me this kind of work is experimental. The experiment is how much you can do with this audience.
ZINOMAN Sorry, but do you have any more of those carrots? Could she have some?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Egg and Spoon,'' a production of Lyngo Theater Company intended for young children, at the New Victory Theater. (AR4)
 The toddler set is the target audience for ''Egg and Spoon,'' which closes on Sunday at the New Victory Theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JILL JENNINGS) (AR24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); THEATER (90%); CHILDREN (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); TRENDS (87%); WRITERS (62%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (87%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



743 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: When Unemployment Hits, and Lingers

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
Joblessness in New York is not a recent phenomenon. Since the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the city has been shedding jobs. But as recently as two years ago, the city's jobless rate was 5.8 percent; it is now 9.3 percent, down from 10.6 percent in January. 
And unemployment affects New Yorkers disproportionately. According to a report released in October by the city comptroller, the unemployment rate for blacks is three times the rate for whites: 15.3 percent in the third quarter of this year, versus 5.3 percent. For Hispanics, the unemployment rate during that period was 13.3 percent.
On Dec. 31, 95,000 New York City residents will exhaust their unemployment benefits. On May 1, 2011, that number will double, with 190,000 additional people losing their benefits. Some of those people have extended their benefits for a record 99 weeks. And those former workers' skill sets run the gamut: One so-called 99-weeker worked as an electrician and maintenance person; some are in the health care field; many are fluent in computer skills and never let their laptops out of their sight for fear of missing a moment of an all-encompassing job search.
The highest possible weekly unemployment wage former workers can receive, based on prior income level, is $405. It is a meager sum compared with what they made before. When their benefits run out, some will have to apply for public assistance. Most will not get it, but for those who do, it pays $130 a week. For most, that would cover about three days' rent.
The situation is so dire that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has teamed up with Spider-Man, a fictional superhero (from Queens, it should be noted), to promote the city's career centers in a pamphlet produced by Marvel Comics. It makes sense -- after all, in the last film, Spider-Man's alter ego, Peter Parker, was laid off from his photography job at The Daily Bugle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (79%); TERRORISM (78%); CITIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



744 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Now, for Some Leadership

 BODY:
If Congress fails to rein in the deficit, it will be because of a lack of political courage -- not any shortage of ideas out there on how to get the job done.
Since the midterm election, two bipartisan panels have issued thought-provoking plans. The first is a draft proposal from the co-chairmen of President Obama's fiscal commission. The second is from a panel at the Bipartisan Policy Center, founded by former Senate leaders.
We believe the Bipartisan Center's plan amplifies the strong aspects of the commission's draft while correcting for some of its shortcomings. Both tell hard truths about the choices ahead -- more than we heard from the politicians in this year's campaign. Here is a review and comparison of some of the important aspects: 
GETTING STARTED Both recognize that the recovery is fragile and delay their start dates until 2012. Without more stimulus now, the economy is unlikely to be strong enough even then to absorb budget cuts. The Bipartisan Policy Center fixes that by calling first for more stimulus, with budget cuts starting a year later.
RAISING TAXES Both plans rightly call for higher taxes to tame the budget and would lower income tax rates while modifying or ending most deductions and other breaks. In the White House commission's proposal, tax revenue would cover only about one-third of the deficit reduction; spending cuts would have to account for two-thirds. The Bipartisan Center's plan has a roughly even split. It also calls for phasing in a 6.5 percent national sales tax, along with provisions to protect lower-income taxpayers. The new sales tax would promote growth by raising adequate revenue without taxing savings.
CUTTING SPENDING Both say what the politicians won't: to bring outlays in line with revenues, defense, Social Security and Medicare must all be cut.
We believe the commission's draft is fundamentally flawed, because it sets an arbitrary spending target of 21 percent of the economy. That would make it impossible to meet the future needs of a growing and aging population and to achieve other goals, like improving education. The Bipartisan Policy Center avoids arbitrary limits. Rather, as spending and tax changes kick in, outlays can rise as a share of the economy.
The center's plan is also sounder on Social Security, ensuring the system's long-term solvency with a generally modest mix of benefit reductions and tax increases that protects middle-income retirees. The commission's plan relies too heavily on benefit cuts for those retirees.
Unfortunately, in dealing with the most difficult problem -- the inexorable rise in spending on Medicare and Medicaid -- the two plans would result in unacceptable reductions in benefits for people of modest means or stiff (for them) payment increases.
The best long-term solution is to make the delivery of medical care much more efficient. That is a major goal of the new reform law, which is starting an array of pilot projects in Medicare and Medicaid. Congress needs to accelerate this effort, not look for ways -- as Republicans are -- to repeal or obstruct the new law.
The Obama fiscal commission is now reworking its draft. If 14 of 18 commissioners vote for a final version, the package will be sent to Congress in December. We don't know if the commission will reach a consensus or if the final version will be improved enough to warrant Congressional approval. President Obama's disturbing silence on his commission's efforts -- while members of his party take political shots -- makes it even less likely the commissioners will agree on a worthwhile final draft.
Meanwhile Congress is moving in exactly the wrong direction. Republicans are bent on letting unemployment benefits expire, lessening the chances that the economy will be ready for deficit cutting by 2012. And those supposedly deficit-minded Republicans are pushing to extend all of the Bush-era tax cuts. That would add $4 trillion to the debt over the next 10 years, the same amount the commission has proposed to cut.
The Democrats are doing only slightly better. They want to extend the middle-class tax cuts permanently -- which would add $3.2 trillion to the debt over 10 years. They do not seem inclined to fight the Republicans very hard. If lawmakers -- of both parties -- were serious about the deficit, they would let the Bush tax cuts for the rich expire, extend the tax cuts for the middle class for a year or so, and reform the tax system in the meantime.
There is no way to reduce the deficit without strong leadership from President Obama and honest cooperation from the Republicans. The ideas are out there. Now we are waiting for the politicians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (87%); SALES TAX (87%); AGING (85%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); AGING TRENDS (69%); MEDICAID (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



745 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: It's the Relationships, Stupid

BYLINE: By TOM SHONE

 BODY:
THE director Edward Zwick has faced many challenges in his career. For his Civil War drama, ''Glory,'' he built an entire fort on a Savannah, Ga., beach and then laid siege to it. While shooting his domestic terrorism thriller, ''The Seige,'' he shut down the Brooklyn Bridge for an entire day. But these pale, perhaps, before the latest challenge he has set for himself: persuading men to shell out for a romantic comedy. That's what people are calling ''Love and Other Drugs,'' even if the label is a loose fit. Adapted from Jamie Reidy's best-selling memoir about the Viagra gold rush in the late 1990s, it stars Jake Gyllenhaal as a womanizing pharmaceutical representative who falls in lust, and then in love, with a beautiful young woman (Anne Hathaway) with Stage 1 Parkinson's disease. It would be a plunge deep into disease-of-the-week territory, if not for the raunch -- sex scenes, sex tapes, nudity, an orgy -- that Mr. Zwick has seasoned the film with and that may leave some in the audience wondering whether they are watching a film about Viagra, or on Viagra. 
''One resists categorization at one's peril,'' said Mr. Zwick, a voluble 58-year-old with curly brown hair, a neatly trimmed beard and a resonant bass voice, over breakfast at the Gramercy Park Hotel. But, he added, ''romantic comedy has come to mean a couple of moderately talented actors placed in implausible situations obliged to go through a set of paces that are all too familiar, the end result being neither romantic nor comedic.''
Whatever you call it, ''Love and Other Drugs,'' which opens on Wednesday, signals a change of direction for Mr. Zwick, best known for movies like ''The Last Samurai,'' ''Legends of the Fall,'' and ''Blood Diamond.'' These are handsome epics that make big claims on both the moral high ground and the audience's emotions, and that tend to elicit words like solid, stirring and old-fashioned from critics. If ''Love and Other Drugs'' has any precedent in Mr. Zwick's work, it is the film that kick-started his career, ''About Last Night,'' the 1986 romantic comedy starring Rob Lowe, Demi Moore and an assortment of thigh-length sweaters to give even the most doctrinaire '80s revivalist pause.
In all Mr. Zwick's movies ''the thing that has always interested me -- amidst the scale, the historical spectacle, or the social significance or the political resonance -- has been the relationships,'' he said. ''In this case the challenge and the joy of it was to strip all that away. The investment is only in the personal.''
He compared the endeavor to the salto mortale, the 19th-century Italian circus act in which acrobats flew through a ring of fire into what they hoped would be a pair of hands on the other side. ''I was asking them to make that leap,'' Mr. Zwick said of his stars. ''We were either in this together, the three of us, or not.''
Ms. Hathaway described herself as initially ''discomfited'' by the script, with its mixture of emotion and ribaldry -- a sort of James L. Brooks for the Age of Apatow. ''I thought the script covered so much terrain, the love story was quite frank, and my character was electric,'' she said. ''I was thrilled by the prospect of doing it, but also terrified by the ways I thought it could go wrong. The characters field such big emotions. This was a very big, capital L, capital S Love Story. Let me put it this way: I didn't have a call into my agent saying, 'Find me a part where I can take my clothes off.' ''
Sensitive to ''this age of screen savers and screen capture'' as he called it, Mr. Zwick gave his stars veto power over sequences that made them feel uncomfortable, and screened a series of films -- including Michael Winterbottom's ''Nine Songs,'' Julio Medem's ''Sex and Lucia,''Bernardo Bertolucci's ''Last Tango in Paris'' -- soliciting their opinions about what they liked and didn't like, what worked and what didn't.
''Anything that didn't feel organic immediately got a big thumbs down from us,'' Ms. Hathaway said. ''Any time the actors felt self-conscious, we were instantly taken out of the story. The film couldn't stop in order for the characters to make love.''
Mr. Zwick speaks of the sex scenes in his new film as a kind of dramatic icebreaker: the ingredient necessary to ''break down the wall'' with which contemporary audiences guards their emotions. ''A sex scene is gratuitous when it only exists for its own sake,'' he said, adding, ''We thought if we were to look at these scenes as we would look at any other scene, to advance the plot, or drive conflict, or overcome an obstacle, then we could apply all that we already knew about scene work and craft to the scene.''
By the end of the shoot they had ''become pretty intimate'' Mr. Gyllenhaal said, referring to the three-way chemistry among himself, Ms. Hathaway and Mr. Zwick. It's similar, he noted, to what he finds in some of his favorite films: ''There's something about the chemistry between the two characters, but in the case of Billy Wilder, or James Brooks or Cameron Crowe, you feel the chemistry with the director too. It was all three of us in there.''
Mr. Zwick's willingness to collaborate with his actors is nothing new. ''He sees it as his job to disappear so that you can do yours,'' said Denzel Washington, who won an Oscar for his role in 1989's ''Glory,'' and later worked with Mr. Zwick on ''Courage Under Fire'' and ''The Siege.'' Mr. Washington pointed to the scene in ''Glory'' in which his character, an escaped slave, is whipped for insubordination: staring right into the camera, he sheds a tear.
''It was something that just happened in the moment but Ed seized the moment, reset the cameras, and did some extra shots. He adjusted to the situation on the fly. He has a very good flow with his crews and his actors. It's never us against them. You're all in it together.''
Mr. Zwick has had his misfires, most notably ''Legends of the Fall,'' a woozy piece of calendar-art classicism in which Brad Pitt attempts to outdo the Montana plains for mythological resonance. His last film, 2008's ''Defiance,'' about Jewish resistance fighters in the Belorussian forest during World War II, did not do particularly well at the box office. The kind of big-canvas filmmaking Mr. Zwick has specialized in is something of an endangered species in today's recession-strapped Hollywood. ''As in real life the middle class is being squeezed,'' he said. ''If I made 'Glory' today, I would have to do with a platoon, not a regiment.''
''Love and Other Drugs'' was made for just $30 million, with Mr. Zwick and his stars taking a fraction of their usual pay. Thus far the experiment appears to have paid off, Mr. Zwick said, if audience tests are anything to go by. ''It plays equally well to men, women, men over 30, women under 30, all four quadrants, so called,'' he said. ''Once they're there they have an identical experience of the movie. The question is: Will they come?''
Asked if he would like to repeat the experience of making a film in a similar vein,'' he answered before the question was finished.
''It's funny to have come full circle in this way, somewhat later in my career, and come to that recognition but the answer is yes. I had a great time. I remembered all the things I most love about making movies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right, Anne Hathaway and Jake Gyllenhaal in ''Love and Other Drugs,'' a romantic comedy (with a bit of raunch) directed by Edward Zwick, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID JAMES/20TH CENTURY FOX
SUZANNE DeCHILLO/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR10)
Left, Daniel Craig in ''Defiance'' (2008), Edward Zwick's film about Jewish resistance fighters in the Belorussian forest during World War II. Below, Morgan Freeman, far left, and Denzel Washington in the Civil War drama ''Glory'' (1989). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN BALLARD/PARAMOUNT VANTAGE
 TRI-STAR PICTURES) (AR12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA FILMS (90%); COMEDY FILMS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FILM (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); TERRORISM (57%)

PERSON: JAKE GYLLENHAAL (68%); ANNE HATHAWAY (68%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Love and Other Drugs (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



746 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to the Casino

BYLINE: By PAUL M. BARRETT. 
Paul M. Barrett is an assistant managing editor of Bloomberg Businessweek.

 BODY:
ALL THE DEVILS ARE HERE
The Hidden History of the Financial Crisis
By Bethany McLean and Joe Nocera
Illustrated. 380 pp. Portfolio/Penguin. $32.95.
Two of our finest business journalists have written a thorough account of the origins of the financial crisis of 2008. More than offering just a backward look, it helps explain the most troubling business headlines of the moment, as well as those that are certain to come. For starters, there is the unfolding foreclosure-paperwork fiasco. Next up will be a clash over whether big banks should be forced to take back billions of dollars in contaminated mortgages they sold. Down the road, we will no doubt confront the danger of the next asset bubble inflating as a result of the Federal Reserve's use of extreme monetary policy to stimulate the economy. These continuing and future problems are all symptoms of a larger syndrome whose origins Bethany McLean and Joe Nocera ably chronicle in ''All the Devils Are Here: The Hidden History of the Financial Crisis.'' 
The title alludes to a line in ''The Tempest'' (''Hell is empty, and all the devils are here''), and fiends surely abound: subprime sleaze kings; bonus-happy Wall Street plutocrats; and, of course, Alan Greenspan, the fallen maestro of the Federal Reserve, whose see-no-evil free-market ideology made a virtue of unchecked financial recklessness.
For those readers who have not immersed themselves in the murky tale of the way dubious housing finance became entangled with Wall Street's casino culture, McLean and Nocera offer as legible an overview as exists. McLean, a former Goldman Sachs employee, writes for Vanity Fair and was the author, with Peter Elkind, of an insightful book about the Enron scandal called ''The Smartest Guys in the Room.'' Nocera is a business columnist for The New York Times and, like McLean, a former longtime staff member at Fortune.
Others have illuminated facets of the crisis in more depth. John Cassidy's ''How Markets Fail'' explained the economic history and theory with greater sophistication. Gillian Tett's ''Fool's Gold'' offered a journey into one investment bank, J. P. Morgan, and a close look at how it helped create a financial instrument, the credit derivative, that amplified risk rather than minimizing it. ''In Fed We Trust,'' by David Wessel, took the reader behind the scenes in Washington, where politicians and regulators missed all the warning signs. For their part, McLean and Nocera concentrate on the basics and bring them together in brisk, well-organized chapters.
They are particularly strong in their examination of the American myth that every family deserves to own a home. This belief, they explain, provided camouflage for all manner of chicanery, putting people into houses they could not afford and erecting corrupt investment empires on the notion that unrealistic mortgage payments would somehow continue to flow. Democrats and Republicans, investment bankers, financial speculators and affordable-housing advocates -- they all conspired, with varying motives, to prop up the delusion that real estate prices could not fall and that the refinancing merry-go-round would never stop turning. Hundred-billion-dollar bailouts and millions of family foreclosures have taught us otherwise.
And here is where ''All the Devils Are Here'' provides a service even for those who have tried diligently to keep up with the literature of the crisis. McLean and Nocera enable us to grasp the latest depressing news about lenders trying to take possession of suburban homes for which they cannot find the relevant paperwork or for which the paperwork seems fabricated.
The authors show that beginning back in the 1970s, the simple transaction of a bank collecting monthly mortgage payments got caught up in a far more complicated Wall Street invention known as securitization. Rather than keep mortgages on their books, lenders sold them to packagers who, for a fee, bundled individual loans into bonds that were carved into ''tranches'' and then sold to investors. Over time, the bonds became more intricate and riskier. So did the underlying mortgages, which proliferated as a result of low interest rates set by the Fed. No one worried much about the dangers of default because ownership of mortgage debt kept changing hands.
Demand exploded for more mortgages to keep the production line humming. Record keeping was an afterthought. When the forces of financial gravity inevitably came into play, and overextended homeowners stopped sending their monthly checks, the value of all those securities dropped, though no one could say by how much. Panic ensued, destroying Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns. Credit froze, taking us to the precipice of a global depression.
Swift government intervention reduced the calamity to a severe recession but did not erase the unaffordable home loans or retroactively create an easily followed mortgage paper trail. As McLean and Nocera demonstrate, the dishevelment of the records that were kept during an era of frenzied securitization explains the present chaos over foreclosures.
''All the Devils Are Here'' is similarly useful for deciphering what will surely become a high-stakes clash between powerful investors and the banks. The investors are already accusing the banks of knowing full well that they were larding mortgage-backed securities with loans very likely to go bad. According to testimony before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, the banks commissioned research that revealed the toxicity of their products, but Wall Street kept silent. As this ugly revelation sinks in, hedge funds and other institutional investors that bought the securities are going to be calling their fiercest lawyers. This conflict could heat up as early as the end of the year.
Another public quarrel McLean and Nocera bring into focus is the esoteric debate about Federal Reserve monetary policy. Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has pushed interest rates practically to zero to try to stimulate growth and reduce an unemployment rate that currently hovers near 10 percent. Dissenters from this policy, like Thomas M. Hoenig, the president of the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank, warn that Bernanke is repeating the mistake of his predecessor, Greenspan, who employed similar measures to combat the recession that followed the dot-com crash of 2000. As McLean and Nocera recount, in April 2005 Greenspan airily dismissed worries that his policies could encourage irresponsible mortgage practices. Lenders, he said, were able to judge the risk posed by individual applicants and to price that risk accordingly.
Well, that turned out to be wrong. But what about the future? The next crisis probably won't be a housing bubble or an Internet craze, because those are fresh in our collective memory. But in some other corner of the economy, easy money is almost certainly beginning to feed hubris and greed. So the chances are, the devils will be coming back again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SCANDALS (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010



747 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 580 words

PERSON: Walter Isard 

HEADLINE: Walter Isard, 91, Economist Who Studied How Regions Evolve

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Walter Isard, an economist who founded the field of regional science, inspiring social scientists to study the relationships between such factors as geography, migration and land use in local or regional economies, died on Saturday at his home in Drexel Hill, Pa. He was 91.
His death was confirmed by his son Peter. 
In the 1940s Professor Isard (pronounced EYE-zard) found common cause with other economists searching for a more sophisticated way to measure and understand economic activity on a smaller-than-national scale.
Deeply influenced by the German economists who developed location theory -- the study of geographic location as a prime factor in economic development -- he began lobbying for an interdisciplinary approach to analyzing local and regional economies.
Typically, a specialist in regional science might study the factors causing a particular industry to be located in a particular place, how the arrival or departure of a company affects a region, or how internal migration influences regional economic activity.
The core concepts of regional science were developed and propagated through the Regional Science Association (since 1989 the Regional Science Association International) and the Journal of Regional Science, both of which Professor Isard founded in the 1950s.
Walter Isard was born in Philadelphia on April 19, 1919. He studied mathematics at Temple University, where he received a B.A. in 1939, and did graduate work in economics at Harvard, where he earned a doctorate in 1943 after attending the University of Chicago on a fellowship. He wrote his dissertation on the relationship between building construction, transportation and the boom-and-bust cycles of the 1920s and '30s.
Although his parents were Jewish, he became a Quaker as an undergraduate and was granted conscientious-objector status during World War II. In lieu of military service, he worked as an orderly in a state psychiatric hospital in New York.
As a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard after the war, working with Wassily Leontief, he devised and taught a course on location theory and regional development, and soon began attracting followers. He taught regional economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and at the University of Pennsylvania he created a department of regional science, which awarded the country's first doctorate in the field, to William Alonso in 1960.
It was at this time when he published the influential ''Location and Space-Economy'' (1956), the first of more than 20 books, among them ''Methods of Regional Analysis'' (1960), ''General Theory'' (1969) and, with Thomas W. Langford, ''Regional Input-Output Study'' (1971), a study of the Philadelphia area.
Professor Isard became increasingly interested in developing the study of peace as a scientific discipline. In 1963 he convened a group of scientists in Malmo, Sweden, to form the Peace Research Society (International), which became the Peace Science Society (International) in 1973. He wrote many articles and books on arms control and conflict resolution, and at Cornell, where he began teaching regional science in 1979, he conducted seminars on peace science.
In addition to his son Peter, of Washington, he is survived by his wife, Caroline; a sister, Mae Haber of Philadelphia; his sons Michael, of Philadelphia, Scott, of Julian, Pa., and Arthur, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; his daughters Toni Yagoda of Brooklyn and Anni Isard of Manhattan; 12 grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walter Isard 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LOBBYING (74%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



748 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 33B

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: With Words on Paper, Independent Defies Trend

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HOINSKI. 
mhoinski@gmail.com

 BODY:
The threat came in 2002. Borders, the chain retailer of books and music, had announced plans to open a store a couple hundred feet from Austin's largest independent book seller, BookPeople, but Steve Bercu, the chief executive, was not going down without a fight.
Mr. Bercu teamed with John Kunz, the owner of a nearby independent record store, Waterloo Records, to mount a spirited if creative defense: They borrowed a slogan coined by an Austin librarian named Red Wassenich -- ''Keep Austin Weird'' -- added the stores' logos and the tagline ''Support Local Businesses,'' and ordered 5,000 bumper stickers to give away. 
They ran out in a week, and have since handed out about 250,000 more.
Even though Mr. Bercu did not make any money off the stickers, his store certainly profited. Borders never opened nearby. Meanwhile, BookPeople solidified its cult following among Austin's energetic community of book buyers and readers and nurtured the ''buy local'' culture that has become a defining feature of life in the state capital.
Such deep loyalty is advantageous at a time when many independent bricks-and-mortar bookstores are cowering before a rapidly changing competitive landscape. Among BookPeople's rivals these days: loss-leading big-box stores that have snaked best-seller sales; bookseller chains in pursuit of suburban domination; and one-stop online shops like Amazon. Then there are e-books, which accounted for only $313 million of $24 billion in net book sales in 2009, according to the Association of American Publishers, but are predicted to reach $3 billion by 2015, said James McQuivey of Forrester Research.
Still, none of this stopped BookPeople from living to see -- and celebrating -- its 40th birthday on Nov. 11. ''Business is great,'' Mr. Bercu, 67, said last week in his merchandise-cluttered office. ''We've been up 8 of 10 months this year.''
The store is also close to completing an extension on its lease in an enviable location near the flagship Whole Foods and a newly developed knot of retailers, restaurants and condo projects. ''I expect to be sitting on this corner until we get the sad news that it's not the hot corner any more,'' he said.
That corner -- 6th and Lamar -- was full of car dealerships when BookPeople moved in 15 years ago. Its transformation into prime real estate, combined with the bumper stickers and the surprising lack of other booksellers in the city center -- chain or independent -- makes Mr. Bercu's store seem like destiny's child.
But there are many things in BookPeople's control that have contributed to its longevity. For one, it has a stellar stream of author appearances: In the last two months alone, Jonathan Franzen, Condoleezza Rice and Jimmy Carter have read and signed copies of their latest books.
Of course, a reading or signing at BookPeople is so much more than a reading or signing.
''For my last book, 'How Perfect Is That,' '' said Sarah Bird, a novelist from Austin, ''I concocted a version of the heroine's special Code Warrior cocktail, my friend danced in a pink vinyl naughty nurse costume and did botox freshening, and another friend did hand massages. Could any of this have happened at a big-box store? Yes, but then arrests would have been made.''
BookPeople further distinguishes itself with other merchandise that accounts for 20 percent of store sales, including odd, one-of-a-kind items like refrigerator magnets that featured the tutued likeness of Leslie Cochran, the local homeless, cross-dressing celebrity. BookPeople has also transfixed young readers with the power of the written word through its literary camps (including the wildly popular Camp Half-Blood, based on the Percy Jackson books by Rick Riordan, a San Antonio author).
''I have, frankly, aped some of BookPeople's best ideas,'' said Jane Moser, who manages Brazos Bookstore, Houston's most significant independent bookseller. The 36-year-old store almost went out of business in 2006, but sales are up almost 9 percent this year, thanks in part to the introduction of local author signings and innovative store displays that are indeed similar to Mr. Bercu's.
Despite BookPeople's success, the promise of a digital invasion is real, as substantiated by the announcement by The New York Times that it will publish e-book best-seller lists early next year.
BookPeople already sells books online and plans to participate in Google's e-books program, Google Editions, when it rolls out. But Mr. Bercu suspects an influx of e-book titles in genres that do not sell well in his store, anyway, like romance, business, and certain ''airplane fiction.'' Plus he is skeptical of the physical product.
''One thing you can't do with a digital book is get it signed by an author,'' he said. ''One thing you can't do with a digital book is drop it in the swimming pool by mistake and have it work when you pick it up.''
Whether this is the beginning or the beginning of the end of BookPeople's story goes back to the lifestyle it breeds.
''It's a nice place to go on a Saturday morning with your child,'' said Edward Nawotka, a Houston critic and the editor of Publishing Perspectives. ''So long as it continues to be a nice place to go on a Saturday morning, they're going to still do business.''
mhoinski@gmail.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Appearances by high-profile authors like Condoleezza Rice have kept BookPeople standing tall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER HOFSTAD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (94%); RETAILERS (91%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); MUSIC STORES (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (92%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (92%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



749 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Remix; They Must Be Giants

BYLINE: By MONICA KHEMSUROV

 BODY:
'If you think big,'' says the tag line for the 1,000-acre Baha Mar resort about to break ground in the Bahamas, ''think bigger.'' Sound ridiculous in a recession? It's more of a harbinger than you'd imagine, at least in the travel world: led by Las Vegas's CityCenter and the Marina Bay Sands Singapore, a new wave of mega-scale complexes that were conceived during the boom have recently opened their doors, with several more in development, from the Alps to Abu Dhabi.
''I think it's the future,'' says Andy Cohen, executive director of the architecture firm Gensler, which worked on CityCenter and has a similar mixed-use project brewing in Shanghai. ''Whether it's sports, entertainment or retail, the ability to have all that variety in one place is key. People want choice.'' 
In flush times, developers with access to cheap capital realized the power of the grand gesture to lure travelers, even to remote areas. They could create entire destinations from scratch, usually with the support of local governments, then profit from the outsize buzz. ''It's a model that started 15 years ago in Vegas and Macao,'' says David Scowsill, president of the World Travel and Tourism Council, ''and since then it's just spread.'' The principle has worked equally well for the world's two largest cruise ships, both Royal Caribbean's, which use the spectacle of sheer magnitude to dispel the notion that there's nothing to do at sea.
Despite the current appetite for ''boutique'' experiences, travelers may discover that more is more after all. Beyond offering almost limitless choices, these massive playgrounds are often startlingly innovative. ''We can create major amenities, like sky parks, that are only economically feasible in these circumstances,'' says the Marina Bay Sands architect Moshe Safdie, referring to the project's 133,000-square-foot aerial garden. Experienced globe-trotters interpret this as better value, while inexperienced tourists -- who Scowsill says make up a substantial portion of mega-resorts' clientele, especially in the East -- like feeling insulated from the outside world, with everything they could possibly need at arm's reach. ''With these big properties, there's a settling feeling,'' Cohen says. ''You understand it, it's exciting, it's a known entity.'' And if nothing else, the new giants have the lure of escapism on their side. Right now, too much may be the only thing that seems like enough. MONICA KHEMSUROV
LARGE AND IN CHARGE
North America: The starchitect-heavy CityCenter (citycenter.com) opened last December on the Las Vegas Strip with 5,900 hotel rooms. LA Live (lalive.com) created a whole new neighborhood in downtown Los Angeles. Setting sail next month, Royal Caribbean's Allure of the Seas (allureoftheseas.com) joins Oasis of the Seas (left) as the world's biggest cruise ships. To come in the Bahamas: Baha Mar (bahamar.com), with six hotels and the Caribbean's largest casino.
Asia: The Marina Bay Sands complex (above; marinabaysands.com) in downtown Singapore has attracted international attention with its triple towers, massive sky park and more than 2,500 hotel rooms. The Shanghai Tower, set to open in 2014, will be the tallest tower in the Far East, with hotels stacked on top of cultural sites.
Europe: The golf and spa resort Costa Navarino (costanavarino.com) opened in Greece this summer with two Starwood hotels. And that was Phase 1. Elsewhere on the Continent, Andermatt (above; andermatt-swissalps.ch) in the Swiss Alps and Budapest's Dream Island (dreamisland.hu), pegged by some as the Vegas of Hungary, are in development.
Middle East: A 317-acre golf course is, for now, the main attraction on Abu Dhabi's Saadiyat Island (above; saadiyat.ae), but by 2020 it will be joined by nine five-star hotels and four museums, including a branch of the Louvre. On the beach of Oman, the Salam Yiti (omran.om/yiti.htm) trio of luxury hotels and residences is scheduled to be up and running by 2013.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARINA BAY SANDS: PABLO SANCHEZ/REUTERS/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESORTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); CRUISES (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); MARINE VESSELS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%) NEVADA, USA (93%); ALPS (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); BAHAMAS (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



750 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Gotham Chronicle: Sharp Eye, and Pencil

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
IF there is a single constant in the creative world, it is that fame has a nasty habit of disappearing overnight. One prime example is the cartoonist Denys Wortman, who from 1924 to 1954 contributed six drawings a week to The New York World and its successors.
His feature, ''Metropolitan Movies,'' was admired for its strikingly naturalistic portrayal of daily life in Gotham. Using a single panel and a conversational caption, Mr. Wortman adroitly summoned up an entirely believable world of housewives talking across fire escapes, girls in the subway hashing over last night's date, and men and women trying to make a buck in diners, offices, music halls and factories -- or struggling to keep afloat during the Great Depression. Mr. Wortman's drawings were also beautifully composed and finely worked, a legacy of his art school years, when he studied alongside future Ashcan school painters like Edward Hopper and George Bellows, and with their guru Robert Henri. 
Even then ''there was nothing quite like it,'' said the cartoonist Jules Feiffer, who enjoyed the drawings as a boy. ''His work didn't seem studied. It was as if you were looking out the window -- or my window in the Bronx.'' And because it was syndicated nationwide (as ''Everyday Movies''), Mr. Wortman's world spread far beyond the Hudson.
But in 1958, four years after his retirement, Mr. Wortman died of a heart attack. By then cartooning had become character-driven and graphically streamlined (think of Charles M. Schulz's ''Peanuts'') while art was ruled by the Abstract Expressionists. And when The World's successor The World-Telegram and Sun folded, he was as forgotten as yesterday's fish wrap.
Now, however, Mr. Wortman is back in the limelight. On Friday, the Museum of the City of New York opened ''Denys Wortman Rediscovered: Drawings for The World-Telegram and Sun, 1930-1953,'' a major retrospective that runs through March 20. And this month, the graphic novel publisher Drawn & Quarterly came out with ''Denys Wortman's New York,'' the first collection of his work in nearly 50 years.
His resurrection has been aided by the devotion of his only child, Denys Wortman VIII, who since 1998 has maintained an extensive archive on the Web site dwortman.com.
But the real push came from the graphic novelist James Sturm (''The Golem's Mighty Swing'' and ''Market Day'') who happened across one of Mr. Wortman's books four years ago and made it his mission to resuscitate his career. It was Mr. Sturm, also the director of the Center for Cartoon Studies in White River Junction, Vt., who brought the work to Drawn & Quarterly and proposed the show to the museum.
When he saw Mr. Wortman's art, ''I was blown away,'' he said. ''I was also surprised that I had never heard of somebody so accomplished and prolific. For me he was this missing link between cartooning and early-20th-century fine art.''
The line between cartooning and fine art seems to have been even blurrier in Mr. Wortman's time than it is today. The healthy newspaper and magazine market allowed a painter like Bellows to support himself as an illustrator and an illustrator like Frederick Burr Opper to make it as a cartoonist, even as Henri urged newspaper illustrators like John Sloan and William Glackens to turn their talents to oil painting.
Mr. Wortman, born in Saugerties, N.Y., in 1887, grew up at exactly the right moment to capitalize on this golden age, but it took him years to figure out how. Although he loved drawing, he initially studied engineering. (''There's very few that can survive being artists,'' explained his son, a Boston stockbroker.) When he finally entered the New York School of Fine and Applied Art, he pursued painting rather than his longtime love, drawing cartoons, to please his mother. Mr. Wortman did achieve some small success: he contributed a brushily worked Bermuda waterfront scene to the 1913 Armory Show. But he was such a perfectionist that he found it hard to finish a canvas. Only in the early 1920s, after consulting a psychiatrist, did he realize newspaper illustration -- a career he was pursuing half-heartedly to support himself -- was his true calling.
''The doctor told him, 'You can't agonize over these paintings,' '' his son recalled. '' 'You need something you can do every day and then it's done.' ''
Mr. Wortman soon landed the ''Metropolitan Movies'' gig at The World. ''I found myself, to my everlasting amazement, in a job that paid me money for doing exactly what I wanted most to do,'' he wrote years later. ''I began to report in pictures and words, for a newspaper, the life around me in a great city.''
His enthusiasm for the job is abundantly evident in his drawings. Looking at their span (he produced more than 9,000 in 30 years, and some 5,000 are still extant) it sometimes seems as though he was spying on every sort of person, office building, apartment and street corner at once. Each panel is also richly laden with architectural and sociological details. For repeated series, like ''Show Bizzness'' and ''Mrs. Rumpel's Rooming House,'' he often picked out a specific street, office or building and made detailed exterior and interior sketches from various angles.
Mr. Wortman also seemed to display a special sensitivity toward the daily lives of women, perhaps because his drawings were often based on photographs taken by his devoted wife, Hilda. (She stopped photographing for him in April 1938, when their son was born.) Throughout his career Hilda also reported back snatches of overheard conversation for his captions. Friends and readers fed him ideas too.
His sources came in handy when the family moved from the West Village to Martha's Vineyard in 1941 after his first heart attack. There the Wortmans kept up their connection to New York with a stream of visitors -- Reginald Marsh, Rube Goldberg, James Thurber, Jackson Pollock, James Cagney and others.
Today Mr. Wortman's New York, with its shoeshine boys, organ grinders and El trains is a thing of the past. Yet in some ways it remains eternal. Take his 1933 drawing of Albert Einstein, surrounded by reporters. ''Let's leave out that stuff about an expanding universe in a curved space, Professor,'' one says. ''What we want is your theory on red-hot coeds.'' Or his 1938 depiction of two dejected-looking men standing on a crowded street. ''They call this a 'recession,' not a 'depression,' one notes, ''but I don't feel any difference.''
Although Mr. Wortman is ''called a cartoonist because his work appeared in newspapers and had captions,'' said Stephanie Plunkett, chief curator of the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., ''he was very much a genre artist. There's just this real beauty to the drawings and an inner life to the characters, more than one might normally find in a cartoon.''
That's precisely what got Mr. Sturm, when he saw a copy of ''Mopey Dick and the Duke,'' Mr. Wortman's 1952 collection of tramp cartoons, in 2006. (Mopey was based on an acquaintance -- a retired sea captain -- and the Duke was his self-portrait.) He quickly Googled the name, found the Web site, and tracked down Mr. Wortman's son, who was living in his father's old house. ''When he said he had about 5,000 drawings in his attic and shed,'' Mr. Sturm said, ''I nearly fell off my chair. ''
Half those drawings have been donated to the Center for Cartoon Studies, where they reside alongside work by Garry Trudeau and Chris Ware. Mr. Sturm and Denys VIII intend to sell enough of the rest to endow a scholarship in Mr. Wortman's name.
Since Mr. Wortman's death, Mr. Sturm noted, the fact that he wasn't quite a fine artist or a cartoonist has made him ''a man without a country.'' But now ''I've opened the door,'' he added, ''my hope is that there will be other curators and academics who will figure out where Wortman belongs in American art.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Denys Wortman, right, is the subject of a show of his newspaper drawings at the Museum of the City of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF DENYS WORTMAN VIII) DRAWINGS: An organ grinder, March 21, 1940.
''Look what the censors did to this letter I got from Joe. I'm sure he said he loved me a coupla times in there where they've blacked it out.'' (July 17, 1943)
''If I have to come down to buy them, you'll have to come down on your prices.'' (Aug. 30, 1948)
''Yo ho Mary! Did you bring your suntan oil?'' (Aug. 9, 1932)
''I hope my husband will be as faithful as that when I get married.'' (April 30, 1934)
 ''I'm dying to get down to 150. That's when I can cross my legs.'' (Sept. 1, 1936) (DRAWINGS FROM THE CENTER FOR CARTOON STUDIES AND DENYS WORTMAN VIII) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (84%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); WRITERS (65%); DEATHS (64%); BOOK PUBLISHING (60%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



751 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Payments Appreciated

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
In my solo medical practice, I treat children from diverse socio-economic backgrounds. I don't participate in any insurance plans, but I routinely use a downward-sliding scale to help parents in financial difficulty afford care. Many of my patients come from families with extremely high net worth. A friend suggested I charge them more. Is it ethical to use the sliding scale in both directions? NAME WITHHELD, NEW YORK
You already use the sliding scale in both directions, and reasonably so. To give one person a price cut is tantamount to giving everyone else a price increase. There is no sanctified price set by the gods as an unvarying standard of comparison: as long as people are paying variable prices, it's all relative. If one person pays $90 for a service and another pays $110, whose payment have you reduced and whose raised? 
Here's another way to look at it: Surely, your fees have risen over the years. You're not charging for a flu shot now what you did in 1810 (if you are a Faustian health care professional who will live for a thousand years and had there been flu shots in 1810). From that perspective, everybody's fees have gone up over the past 200 years, some more than others.
If you thought about your fees in another way, as a percentage of patients' income, you might conclude that you persistently charge wealthy patients quite a bit less than the needy. A bill for $10,000 -- it's a lovely nose job -- represents 1 percent of the income of someone making a million dollars a year, but it is 33 percent of the income of someone making $30,000 a year. Why are you overcharging poorer patients? Why is someone with such a meager salary squandering it on a nose job? What was wrong with her old nose?
Finland assesses some speeding tickets not as fixed fines but in proportion to the violator's income. Here in America, we accept other sorts of variable pricing. The cost of an airline seat can vary depending on when you buy it. The cost of a movie ticket alters with your age: kids and seniors pay less.
Despite there being no mathematically meaningful distinction here, psychology plays its part: it can feel different if you apparently lower a price -- that's generosity -- than if you seem to raise one: that's gouging. And so you should be transparent, perhaps appending a general statement to your bills: ''Fees may vary with ability to pay.''
I hire freelance artists for a national magazine facing tough financial times. Must I tell them that they might be paid late or perhaps not at all? If I do, they might decline the job, and we cannot produce the magazine. If I don't, I burn a lot of bridges. My superiors assured me that they will start paying contributors, but they said that for months with no results.
NAME WITHHELD, NEW YORK
You may not tell a lie to your freelancers, even a lie of omission, even for the good of the magazine. (Nor may you hijack their cars and use them to deliver the new issue.) You must treat your would-be contributors honestly, as I infer you know, hence your discomfort and your question. That means giving them the best assessment you can of when they will be paid, although this might induce some to turn down assignments.
And you should tell your superiors as much. Their determination to keep the magazine alive in lean times may mean giving up limousines, massages and deluxe lunches; it does not mean giving up ordinary business ethics. They may tighten their belts, but not around someone else's throat.
E-MAIL: queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number. PODCASTS: of the Ethicist are available at NYTimes.com, iTunes and Yahoo.com.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CHANGES (90%); FAMILY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); INFLUENZA (67%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



752 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Is the Market For Big Muscle Toning Up?

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
PRICES of vintage American muscle cars peaked, along with real estate values, in early 2008 or late 2007 -- the year when a 1971 Plymouth Hemi 'Cuda convertible sold for an astounding $2.4 million at auction.
But by 2009, prices of rowdy big-engine cars had plunged while the broader market in collectible cars underwent a comparatively mild correction.
Since then, the collector car market has generally settled into two parts. Highly desirable, top-notch cars in impeccable condition -- with thorough historical documentation -- have no trouble finding buyers at strong prices. Cars that are questionable, or in lesser demand, are languishing. 
There are indications that the muscle-car market has also been firming up, based on reports of private sales and a few isolated auctions, like a Mecum Auctions sale in Indianapolis in May.
An auction last weekend in Gainesville, Ga., may have verified this upturn. The Nov. 13 sale of 55 prime American vehicles -- most of them made after World War II and largely consisting of muscle cars -- provided a temperature reading for the market in advance of the closely watched auctions in the Phoenix area in January.
The cars sold in Georgia, from a collection amassed by Milton Robson, who made a fortune in the food-service business, included some of the rarest and most desired American cars of the postwar period. Sales at the auction, conducted by RM Auctions of Blenheim, Ontario, totaled more than $9.1 million.
Donnie Gould, a partner in RM, suggested that the cars' high quality was a primary factor. He said Mr. Robson had ''a stellar reputation built over 25 years for only buying the best stuff, the best colors and engine and transmission options.''
Alluding to strong sales at the August auctions in California -- where European sports cars did particularly well -- Mr. Gould said, ''We expected the trend from Monterey to continue, with people feeling better about the economy and more comfortable spending money on good-quality cars.''
Colin Comer, a Milwaukee dealer and author of ''Million Dollar Muscle Cars'' (Motorbooks, 2007), said he had seen higher muscle car prices in private sales in recent months, ''with roughly three times the demand as last year for rare cars.''
Mr. Comer also noted that the Robson auction was a concentrated one-day sale with no reserves, meaning the cars would be sold regardless of price. ''People flew across the country to be there, not wanting to lose the opportunity to get a great car at a market price,'' he said. ''Of course, when there are three guys aggressively bidding on one car, the market price goes up.''
Many of the best-known muscle-car collectors were there, Mr. Comer said, though more often than not first-time buyers ended up with the cars. In the past, novices often made purchases that proved less than savvy. That may no longer be the case, as more bidders take advantage of information -- like previous sale prices -- on the Internet.
In most cases, the amounts paid at the RM sale were in line with the market or perhaps a bit stronger. For instance, a 1970 Chevrolet Chevelle LS6 convertible with a 4-speed manual transmission brought $214,500, including the 10 percent buyer's premium. That price was almost exactly what some experts, including Mr. Comer, had expected.
A 1967 Corvette convertible did even better. The car, with 435 horsepower from its big-block 427-cubic-inch engine, found a new home for $176,000 -- a strong price that was close to what it might have brought in the heady days of 2007.
While there was a fair bit of logic to the prices, a few sales proved surprising. A 1970 Shelby GT-500 convertible sold for a whopping $368,500 -- a huge price in any market for the final year, and arguably the least special, of the classic Shelby Mustangs.
The car's over-the-top restoration was largely responsible for the result, which was more than double what such cars generally bring. Another car that was in essentially brand-new condition, a 1978 Pontiac Trans Am, sold for $49,500.
Even orphans and oddballs had a good day. An attractive 1957 Studebaker Golden Hawk supercharged coupe sold for $46,200, and a 1970 Ford Ranchero GT pickup brought $46,750.
While the results of the Robson sale do not necessarily signal a return to the freewheeling days of three years ago, they indicated that trends in the overall collector car market have extended to the world of muscle cars. Great cars are once again bringing significant interest, but buyers remain very picky, and strong prices for the very best cars are not yet pulling up the value of lesser examples.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PRIME CUTS: Muscle cars sold in Georgia included '69 Chevy Camaro ZL-1, above, which brought $418,000, and '62 Chevy Impala Lightweight 409, with a high bid of $132,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RM AUCTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SPORTS CARS (72%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (69%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



753 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4127 words

HEADLINE: YOUR BRAIN ON COMPUTERS; Growing Up Digital, Wired for Distraction

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL; Malia Wollan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -- On the eve of a pivotal academic year in Vishal Singh's life, he faces a stark choice on his bedroom desk: book or computer?
By all rights, Vishal, a bright 17-year-old, should already have finished the book, Kurt Vonnegut's ''Cat's Cradle,'' his summer reading assignment. But he has managed 43 pages in two months.
He typically favors Facebook, YouTube and making digital videos. That is the case this August afternoon. Bypassing Vonnegut, he clicks over to YouTube, meaning that tomorrow he will enter his senior year of high school hoping to see an improvement in his grades, but without having completed his only summer homework.
On YouTube, ''you can get a whole story in six minutes,'' he explains. ''A book takes so long. I prefer the immediate gratification.'' 
Students have always faced distractions and time-wasters. But computers and cellphones, and the constant stream of stimuli they offer, pose a profound new challenge to focusing and learning.
Researchers say the lure of these technologies, while it affects adults too, is particularly powerful for young people. The risk, they say, is that developing brains can become more easily habituated than adult brains to constantly switching tasks -- and less able to sustain attention.
''Their brains are rewarded not for staying on task but for jumping to the next thing,'' said Michael Rich, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and executive director of the Center on Media and Child Health in Boston. And the effects could linger: ''The worry is we're raising a generation of kids in front of screens whose brains are going to be wired differently.''
But even as some parents and educators express unease about students' digital diets, they are intensifying efforts to use technology in the classroom, seeing it as a way to connect with students and give them essential skills. Across the country, schools are equipping themselves with computers, Internet access and mobile devices so they can teach on the students' technological territory.
It is a tension on vivid display at Vishal's school, Woodside High School, on a sprawling campus set against the forested hills of Silicon Valley. Here, as elsewhere, it is not uncommon for students to send hundreds of text messages a day or spend hours playing video games, and virtually everyone is on Facebook.
The principal, David Reilly, 37, a former musician who says he sympathizes when young people feel disenfranchised, is determined to engage these 21st-century students. He has asked teachers to build Web sites to communicate with students, introduced popular classes on using digital tools to record music, secured funding for iPads to teach Mandarin and obtained $3 million in grants for a multimedia center.
He pushed first period back an hour, to 9 a.m., because students were showing up bleary-eyed, at least in part because they were up late on their computers. Unchecked use of digital devices, he says, can create a culture in which students are addicted to the virtual world and lost in it.
''I am trying to take back their attention from their BlackBerrys and video games,'' he says. ''To a degree, I'm using technology to do it.''
The same tension surfaces in Vishal, whose ability to be distracted by computers is rivaled by his proficiency with them. At the beginning of his junior year, he discovered a passion for filmmaking and made a name for himself among friends and teachers with his storytelling in videos made with digital cameras and editing software.
He acts as his family's tech-support expert, helping his father, Satendra, a lab manager, retrieve lost documents on the computer, and his mother, Indra, a security manager at the San Francisco airport, build her own Web site.
But he also plays video games 10 hours a week. He regularly sends Facebook status updates at 2 a.m., even on school nights, and has such a reputation for distributing links to videos that his best friend calls him a ''YouTube bully.''
Several teachers call Vishal one of their brightest students, and they wonder why things are not adding up. Last semester, his grade point average was 2.3 after a D-plus in English and an F in Algebra II. He got an A in film critique.
''He's a kid caught between two worlds,'' said Mr. Reilly -- one that is virtual and one with real-life demands.
Vishal, like his mother, says he lacks the self-control to favor schoolwork over the computer. She sat him down a few weeks before school started and told him that, while she respected his passion for film and his technical skills, he had to use them productively.
''This is the year,'' she says she told him. ''This is your senior year and you can't afford not to focus.''
It was not always this way. As a child, Vishal had a tendency to procrastinate, but nothing like this. Something changed him.
Growing Up With Gadgets
When he was 3, Vishal moved with his parents and older brother to their current home, a three-bedroom house in the working-class section of Redwood City, a suburb in Silicon Valley that is more diverse than some of its elite neighbors.
Thin and quiet with a shy smile, Vishal passed the admissions test for a prestigious public elementary and middle school. Until sixth grade, he focused on homework, regularly going to the house of a good friend to study with him.
But Vishal and his family say two things changed around the seventh grade: his mother went back to work, and he got a computer. He became increasingly engrossed in games and surfing the Internet, finding an easy outlet for what he describes as an inclination to procrastinate.
''I realized there were choices,'' Vishal recalls. ''Homework wasn't the only option.''
Several recent studies show that young people tend to use home computers for entertainment, not learning, and that this can hurt school performance, particularly in low-income families. Jacob L. Vigdor, an economics professor at Duke University who led some of the research, said that when adults were not supervising computer use, children ''are left to their own devices, and the impetus isn't to do homework but play around.''
Research also shows that students often juggle homework and entertainment. The Kaiser Family Foundation found earlier this year that half of students from 8 to 18 are using the Internet, watching TV or using some other form of media either ''most'' (31 percent) or ''some'' (25 percent) of the time that they are doing homework.
At Woodside, as elsewhere, students' use of technology is not uniform. Mr. Reilly, the principal, says their choices tend to reflect their personalities. Social butterflies tend to be heavy texters and Facebook users. Students who are less social might escape into games, while drifters or those prone to procrastination, like Vishal, might surf the Web or watch videos.
The technology has created on campuses a new set of social types -- not the thespian and the jock but the texter and gamer, Facebook addict and YouTube potato.
''The technology amplifies whoever you are,'' Mr. Reilly says.
For some, the amplification is intense. Allison Miller, 14, sends and receives 27,000 texts in a month, her fingers clicking at a blistering pace as she carries on as many as seven text conversations at a time. She texts between classes, at the moment soccer practice ends, while being driven to and from school and, often, while studying.
Most of the exchanges are little more than quick greetings, but they can get more in-depth, like ''if someone tells you about a drama going on with someone,'' Allison said. ''I can text one person while talking on the phone to someone else.''
But this proficiency comes at a cost: she blames multitasking for the three B's on her recent progress report.
''I'll be reading a book for homework and I'll get a text message and pause my reading and put down the book, pick up the phone to reply to the text message, and then 20 minutes later realize, 'Oh, I forgot to do my homework.' ''
Some shyer students do not socialize through technology -- they recede into it. Ramon Ochoa-Lopez, 14, an introvert, plays six hours of video games on weekdays and more on weekends, leaving homework to be done in the bathroom before school.
Escaping into games can also salve teenagers' age-old desire for some control in their chaotic lives. ''It's a way for me to separate myself,'' Ramon says. ''If there's an argument between my mom and one of my brothers, I'll just go to my room and start playing video games and escape.''
With powerful new cellphones, the interactive experience can go everywhere. Between classes at Woodside or at lunch, when use of personal devices is permitted, students gather in clusters, sometimes chatting face to face, sometimes half-involved in a conversation while texting someone across the teeming quad. Others sit alone, watching a video, listening to music or updating Facebook.
Students say that their parents, worried about the distractions, try to police computer time, but that monitoring the use of cellphones is difficult. Parents may also want to be able to call their children at any time, so taking the phone away is not always an option.
Other parents wholly embrace computer use, even when it has no obvious educational benefit.
''If you're not on top of technology, you're not going to be on top of the world,'' said John McMullen, 56, a retired criminal investigator whose son, Sean, is one of five friends in the group Vishal joins for lunch each day.
Sean's favorite medium is video games; he plays for four hours after school and twice that on weekends. He was playing more but found his habit pulling his grade point average below 3.2, the point at which he felt comfortable. He says he sometimes wishes that his parents would force him to quit playing and study, because he finds it hard to quit when given the choice. Still, he says, video games are not responsible for his lack of focus, asserting that in another era he would have been distracted by TV or something else.
''Video games don't make the hole; they fill it,'' says Sean, sitting at a picnic table in the quad, where he is surrounded by a multimillion-dollar view: on the nearby hills are the evergreens that tower above the affluent neighborhoods populated by Internet tycoons. Sean, a senior, concedes that video games take a physical toll: ''I haven't done exercise since my sophomore year. But that doesn't seem like a big deal. I still look the same.''
Sam Crocker, Vishal's closest friend, who has straight A's but lower SAT scores than he would like, blames the Internet's distractions for his inability to finish either of his two summer reading books.
''I know I can read a book, but then I'm up and checking Facebook,'' he says, adding: ''Facebook is amazing because it feels like you're doing something and you're not doing anything. It's the absence of doing something, but you feel gratified anyway.''
He concludes: ''My attention span is getting worse.''
The Lure of Distraction
Some neuroscientists have been studying people like Sam and Vishal. They have begun to understand what happens to the brains of young people who are constantly online and in touch.
In an experiment at the German Sport University in Cologne in 2007, boys from 12 to 14 spent an hour each night playing video games after they finished homework.
On alternate nights, the boys spent an hour watching an exciting movie, like ''Harry Potter'' or ''Star Trek,'' rather than playing video games. That allowed the researchers to compare the effect of video games and TV.
The researchers looked at how the use of these media affected the boys' brainwave patterns while sleeping and their ability to remember their homework in the subsequent days. They found that playing video games led to markedly lower sleep quality than watching TV, and also led to a ''significant decline'' in the boys' ability to remember vocabulary words. The findings were published in the journal Pediatrics.
Markus Dworak, a researcher who led the study and is now a neuroscientist at Harvard, said it was not clear whether the boys' learning suffered because sleep was disrupted or, as he speculates, also because the intensity of the game experience overrode the brain's recording of the vocabulary.
''When you look at vocabulary and look at huge stimulus after that, your brain has to decide which information to store,'' he said. ''Your brain might favor the emotionally stimulating information over the vocabulary.''
At the University of California, San Francisco, scientists have found that when rats have a new experience, like exploring an unfamiliar area, their brains show new patterns of activity. But only when the rats take a break from their exploration do they process those patterns in a way that seems to create a persistent memory.
In that vein, recent imaging studies of people have found that major cross sections of the brain become surprisingly active during downtime. These brain studies suggest to researchers that periods of rest are critical in allowing the brain to synthesize information, make connections between ideas and even develop the sense of self.
Researchers say these studies have particular implications for young people, whose brains have more trouble focusing and setting priorities.
''Downtime is to the brain what sleep is to the body,'' said Dr. Rich of Harvard Medical School. ''But kids are in a constant mode of stimulation.''
''The headline is: bring back boredom,'' added Dr. Rich, who last month gave a speech to the American Academy of Pediatrics entitled, ''Finding Huck Finn: Reclaiming Childhood from the River of Electronic Screens.''
Dr. Rich said in an interview that he was not suggesting young people should toss out their devices, but rather that they embrace a more balanced approach to what he said were powerful tools necessary to compete and succeed in modern life.
The heavy use of devices also worries Daniel Anderson, a professor of psychology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, who is known for research showing that children are not as harmed by TV viewing as some researchers have suggested.
Multitasking using ubiquitous, interactive and highly stimulating computers and phones, Professor Anderson says, appears to have a more powerful effect than TV.
Like Dr. Rich, he says he believes that young, developing brains are becoming habituated to distraction and to switching tasks, not to focus.
''If you've grown up processing multiple media, that's exactly the mode you're going to fall into when put in that environment -- you develop a need for that stimulation,'' he said.
Vishal can attest to that.
''I'm doing Facebook, YouTube, having a conversation or two with a friend, listening to music at the same time. I'm doing a million things at once, like a lot of people my age,'' he says. ''Sometimes I'll say: I need to stop this and do my schoolwork, but I can't.''
''If it weren't for the Internet, I'd focus more on school and be doing better academically,'' he says. But thanks to the Internet, he says, he has discovered and pursued his passion: filmmaking. Without the Internet, ''I also wouldn't know what I want to do with my life.''
Clicking Toward a Future
The woman sits in a cemetery at dusk, sobbing. Behind her, silhouetted and translucent, a man kneels, then fades away, a ghost.
This captivating image appears on Vishal's computer screen. On this Thursday afternoon in late September, he is engrossed in scenes he shot the previous weekend for a music video he is making with his cousin.
The video is based on a song performed by the band Guns N' Roses about a woman whose boyfriend dies. He wants it to be part of the package of work he submits to colleges that emphasize film study, along with a documentary he is making about home-schooled students.
Now comes the editing. Vishal taught himself to use sophisticated editing software in part by watching tutorials on YouTube. He does not leave his chair for more than two hours, sipping Pepsi, his face often inches from the screen, as he perfects the clip from the cemetery. The image of the crying woman was shot separately from the image of the kneeling man, and he is trying to fuse them.
''I'm spending two hours to get a few seconds just right,'' he says.
He occasionally sends a text message or checks Facebook, but he is focused in a way he rarely is when doing homework. He says the chief difference is that filmmaking feels applicable to his chosen future, and he hopes colleges, like the University of Southern California or the California Institute of the Arts in Los Angeles, will be so impressed by his portfolio that they will overlook his school performance.
''This is going to compensate for the grades,'' he says. On this day, his homework includes a worksheet for Latin, some reading for English class and an economics essay, but they can wait.
For Vishal, there's another clear difference between filmmaking and homework: interactivity. As he edits, the windows on the screen come alive; every few seconds, he clicks the mouse to make tiny changes to the lighting and flow of the images, and the software gives him constant feedback.
''I click and something happens,'' he says, explaining that, by comparison, reading a book or doing homework is less exciting. ''I guess it goes back to the immediate gratification thing.''
The $2,000 computer Vishal is using is state of the art and only a week old. It represents a concession by his parents. They allowed him to buy it, despite their continuing concerns about his technology habits, because they wanted to support his filmmaking dream. ''If we put roadblocks in his way, he's just going to get depressed,'' his mother says. Besides, she adds, ''he's been making an effort to do his homework.''
At this point in the semester, it seems she is right. The first schoolwide progress reports come out in late September, and Vishal has mostly A's and B's. He says he has been able to make headway by applying himself, but also by cutting back his workload. Unlike last year, he is not taking advanced placement classes, and he has chosen to retake Algebra II not in the classroom but in an online class that lets him work at his own pace.
His shift to easier classes might not please college admissions officers, according to Woodside's college adviser, Zorina Matavulj. She says they want seniors to intensify their efforts. As it is, she says, even if Vishal improves his performance significantly, someone with his grades faces long odds in applying to the kinds of colleges he aspires to.
Still, Vishal's passion for film reinforces for Mr. Reilly, the principal, that the way to reach these students is on their own terms.
Hands-On Technology
Big Macintosh monitors sit on every desk, and a man with hip glasses and an easygoing style stands at the front of the class. He is Geoff Diesel, 40, a favorite teacher here at Woodside who has taught English and film. Now he teaches one of Mr. Reilly's new classes, audio production. He has a rapt audience of more than 20 students as he shows a video of the band Nirvana mixing their music, then holds up a music keyboard.
''Who knows how to use Pro Tools? We've got it. It's the program used by the best music studios in the world,'' he says.
In the back of the room, Mr. Reilly watches, thrilled. He introduced the audio course last year and enough students signed up to fill four classes. (He could barely pull together one class when he introduced Mandarin, even though he had secured iPads to help teach the language.)
''Some of these students are our most at-risk kids,'' he says. He means that they are more likely to tune out school, skip class or not do their homework, and that they may not get healthful meals at home. They may also do their most enthusiastic writing not for class but in text messages and on Facebook. ''They're here, they're in class, they're listening.''
Despite Woodside High's affluent setting, about 40 percent of its 1,800 students come from low-income families and receive a reduced-cost or free lunch. The school is 56 percent Latino, 38 percent white and 5 percent African-American, and it sends 93 percent of its students to four-year or community colleges.
Mr. Reilly says that the audio class provides solid vocational training and can get students interested in other subjects.
''Today mixing music, tomorrow sound waves and physics,'' he says. And he thinks the key is that they love not just the music but getting their hands on the technology. ''We're meeting them on their turf.''
It does not mean he sees technology as a panacea. ''I'll always take one great teacher in a cave over a dozen Smart Boards,'' he says, referring to the high-tech teaching displays used in many schools.
Teachers at Woodside commonly blame technology for students' struggles to concentrate, but they are divided over whether embracing computers is the right solution.
''It's a catastrophe,'' said Alan Eaton, a charismatic Latin teacher. He says that technology has led to a ''balkanization of their focus and duration of stamina,'' and that schools make the problem worse when they adopt the technology.
''When rock 'n' roll came about, we didn't start using it in classrooms like we're doing with technology,'' he says. He personally feels the sting, since his advanced classes have one-third as many students as they had a decade ago.
Vishal remains a Latin student, one whom Mr. Eaton describes as particularly bright. But the teacher wonders if technology might be the reason Vishal seems to lose interest in academics the minute he leaves class.
Mr. Diesel, by contrast, does not think technology is behind the problems of Vishal and his schoolmates -- in fact, he thinks it is the key to connecting with them, and an essential tool. ''It's in their DNA to look at screens,'' he asserts. And he offers another analogy to explain his approach: ''Frankenstein is in the room and I don't want him to tear me apart. If I'm not using technology, I lose them completely.''
Mr. Diesel had Vishal as a student in cinema class and describes him as a ''breath of fresh air'' with a gift for filmmaking. Mr. Diesel says he wonders if Vishal is a bit like Woody Allen, talented but not interested in being part of the system.
But Mr. Diesel adds: ''If Vishal's going to be an independent filmmaker, he's got to read Vonnegut. If you're going to write scripts, you've got to read.''
Back to Reading Aloud
Vishal sits near the back of English IV. Marcia Blondel, a veteran teacher, asks the students to open the book they are studying, ''The Things They Carried,'' which is about the Vietnam War.
''Who wants to read starting in the middle of Page 137?'' she asks. One student begins to read aloud, and the rest follow along.
To Ms. Blondel, the exercise in group reading represents a regression in American education and an indictment of technology. The reason she has to do it, she says, is that students now lack the attention span to read the assignments on their own.
''How can you have a discussion in class?'' she complains, arguing that she has seen a considerable change in recent years. In some classes she can count on little more than one-third of the students to read a 30-page homework assignment.
She adds: ''You can't become a good writer by watching YouTube, texting and e-mailing a bunch of abbreviations.''
As the group-reading effort winds down, she says gently: ''I hope this will motivate you to read on your own.''
It is a reminder of the choices that have followed the students through the semester: computer or homework? Immediate gratification or investing in the future?
Mr. Reilly hopes that the two can meet -- that computers can be combined with education to better engage students and can give them technical skills without compromising deep analytical thought.
But in Vishal's case, computers and schoolwork seem more and more to be mutually exclusive. Ms. Blondel says that Vishal, after a decent start to the school year, has fallen into bad habits. In October, he turned in weeks late, for example, a short essay based on the first few chapters of ''The Things They Carried.'' His grade at that point, she says, tracks around a D.
For his part, Vishal says he is investing himself more in his filmmaking, accelerating work with his cousin on their music video project. But he is also using Facebook late at night and surfing for videos on YouTube. The evidence of the shift comes in a string of Facebook updates.
Saturday, 11:55 p.m.: ''Editing, editing, editing''
Sunday, 3:55 p.m.: ''8+ hours of shooting, 8+ hours of editing. All for just a three-minute scene. Mind = Dead.''
Sunday, 11:00 p.m.: ''Fun day, finally got to spend a day relaxing... now about that homework...''
Your Brain On Computers: Articles in this series examine how a deluge of data can affect the way people think and behave.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at Woodside High School in Woodside, Calif., are allowed to use their phones at lunch and between classes. Although access to their phones is limited, many students, like these three, send several hundred text messages a day. (A1)
Vishal Singh, 17, often chooses time on his computer over doing homework. Vishal, whose lighting gear is on the bed, is an aspiring filmmaker.
Students at Woodside High School are often reminded of the restrictions on their phones at school. At home, many juggle multiple devices at once.
Allison Miller sends and receives 27,000 texts a month, carrying on multiple text conversations at a time. (A26)
Mr. Reilly, the principal, says that the unchecked use of devices can create a culture in which students are addicted to and lost in the virtual world.
 Woodside introduced a popular audio course last year that uses digital tools to record music. (A27) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (87%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); HOMEWORK (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); BRAIN (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); MUSIC (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010



754 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: A Stack of Bills, and No Paycheck or Savings

BYLINE: By REBECCA WHITE

 BODY:
For Carol Ann Fuoco, 58, things are not the way they used to be.
Ms. Fuoco has lived in the same apartment in Maspeth, Queens, since she was 10. Once, the kitchen in her co-op apartment had brick-patterned wallpaper with ivy poking through the cracks. That was followed by wallpaper with a pattern of strawberries. Now, the walls are apple green.
Her sister married and moved out in the 1970s, but Ms. Fuoco stayed on. She cared for and nursed her parents in the apartment and witnessed their passing: her father died in 1997 of prostate cancer, her mother in 2001, from complications of Alzheimer's disease. ''I made a promise I would never put my parents in a home,'' she said. 
But the decor has not been the only thing to change over the years. In March, Ms. Fuoco was one of 1,000 people to be laid off from the computer software company where she had been working as an administrative assistant for almost five years. She went from making $59,000 a year to receiving unemployment checks for $405 a week.
A diligent worker, she never had trouble earning money, but she acknowledged she had not been so good about saving it. ''I would always try to start and then it never materialized,'' she said. ''If I had a tax return I would try to start and make an attempt to put it away, but it was hard and wound up not being able to.''
Was she worried about her retirement? ''I didn't plan on retiring any time soon,'' she said.
A new job has proved elusive. Ms. Fuoco does not have a bachelor's degree and so is not able to apply to many jobs for which she feels she is otherwise eligible. Her work experience is strong. She has done administrative work in the corporate sector since her first secretarial job at Pfizer after she graduated from high school.
In those days, reminisced Ms. Fuoco, ''you would get dressed up. A suit. Well-groomed. You would go to the human resources department of any company and ask if they had any positions available.''
Today, it's different. ''Everything is done by e-mail,'' she said. ''You can't just walk into companies like years ago.''
Eight months and three interviews after she was laid off, Ms. Fuoco has collected a stack of bills and has become delinquent on her credit card payments. She is struggling with a long list of expenses, including more than $1,000 in monthly co-op maintenance and mortgage fees. To stay afloat, Ms. Fuoco went to her local parish food pantry, which directed her to Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. She received $400 for her September co-op maintenance fee and $159.44 to cover an outstanding phone bill. Unless she is granted an extension, her unemployment benefits will end in February.
Ms. Fuoco, who is registered with several temp agencies and has sent out more than two hundred resumes since March, is fearful of what the future will bring.
''It's definitely taking a toll on her nerves,'' said her nephew, Joseph Macchia, 37. Mr. Macchia has been living with Ms. Fuoco since 1996 and has been able to help with food, MetroCards and cable and Internet expenses.
Ms. Fuoco still wakes up early and immediately goes onto the Internet to search for jobs. She is also on the board of directors of her nephew's not-for-profit organization, Help is on the Way Today, which raises money for children living with H.I.V. and AIDS.
Right now they are organizing a toy drive. ''It gives me self-satisfaction, like I made a difference,'' Ms. Fuoco said. ''Putting a smile on the kids' faces. I love kids.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES: 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS: 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK: 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK: 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES: 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK: Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carol Ann Fuoco, 58, at her apartment in Maspeth, Queens, was laid off in March. A new job has proved elusive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (87%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); HUMAN RESOURCES (66%); CHARITIES (66%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (56%); PROSTATE CANCER (55%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (55%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (53%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (52%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



755 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Qaeda Branch Says Plot Used Strategy of Broad Damage at Low Cost

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
In a detailed account of its failed parcel bomb plot last month, Al Qaeda's branch in Yemen said late Saturday that the operation cost only $4,200 to mount, was intended to disrupt global air cargo systems and reflected a new strategy of low-cost attacks designed to inflict broad economic damage.
The group, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, released to militant Web sites a new edition of its English-language magazine, called Inspire, devoted entirely to explaining the technology and tactics in the attack, in which toner cartridges packed with explosives were intercepted in Dubai and Britain. The printers containing the cartridges had been sent from Yemen's capital, Sana, to out-of-date addresses for two Chicago synagogues. 
The attack failed as a result of a tip from Saudi intelligence, which provided the tracking numbers for the parcels, sent via United Parcel Service and FedEx. But the Qaeda magazine said the fear, disruption and added security costs caused by the packages made what it called Operation Hemorrhage a success.
''Two Nokia mobiles, $150 each, two HP printers, $300 each, plus shipping, transportation and other miscellaneous expenses add up to a total bill of $4,200. That is all what Operation Hemorrhage cost us,'' the magazine said.
It mocked the notion that the plot was a failure, saying it was the work of ''less than six brothers'' over three months. ''This supposedly 'foiled plot,' '' the group wrote, ''will without a doubt cost America and other Western countries billions of dollars in new security measures. That is what we call leverage.''
The magazine included photographs of the printers and bombs that the group said were taken before they were shipped, as well as a copy of the novel ''Great Expectations'' by Charles Dickens that it said it had placed in one package because the group was ''very optimistic'' about the operation's success.
The magazine also gave a detailed account of the construction and disguise of the explosives. Three private organizations that track militants' communications said they had no doubt the account was authentic. Ben Venzke, who runs IntelCenter, a Virginia company that discovered the 23-page ''special issue'' of Inspire on the Web on Saturday night, said the magazine showed the growing savvy of the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen in both operations and messaging.
''In the last year, we've seen a much greater sophistication from A.Q.A.P., and Inspire is sort of the tip of the spear,'' Mr. Venzke said.
Mr. Venzke said that in many years of closely following terrorist groups' public statements, IntelCenter had never seen ''such a detailed accounting of the philosophy, operational details, intent and next steps following a major attack.'' He called it ''a far cry from the days of shadowy claims and questions as to who was actually responsible.''
The magazine said that it had adopted a ''strategy of a thousand cuts.''
''To bring down America we do not need to strike big,'' it said. ''In such an environment of security phobia that is sweeping America, it is more feasible to stage smaller attacks that involve less players and less time to launch and thus we may circumvent the security barriers America worked so hard to erect.''
The magazine repeated a claim from the group that it was responsible for the Sept. 3 crash of a U.P.S. jet in Dubai that killed the two pilots. Investigators in the United Arab Emirates concluded that the pre-crash fire was not caused by an explosion, and intelligence officials are skeptical about the Qaeda claim, noting that the group probably would have claimed it as a success at the time.
The new issue of Inspire asserts that because the Sept. 3 crash was not attributed to terrorism, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula decided to remain silent about it to increase chances that future parcel bombs would go undetected. But nothing in the magazine showed inside knowledge of what caused the crash.
The magazine has the same flashy graphics, idiomatic English and cocky attitude as were shown in the first two issues, released online in the summer and fall. Intelligence officials have said they believe it is largely the work of Samir Khan, an American citizen who moved to Yemen from North Carolina last year. It may also reflect the influence of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born radical cleric who is now active in Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula consists mainly of Saudis and Yemenis and is believed to have close ties to Osama bin Laden and the terrorist network's central leadership in Pakistan. It initially focused on plotting against the Saudi monarchy and the Yemeni government and continues to carry out attacks in the region. The group trained and equipped Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Nigerian who tried to blow up an airliner over Detroit last Dec. 25, and its rhetoric has increasingly echoed the central Qaeda goal of attacking the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANAA, YEMEN (78%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (72%) YEMEN (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (77%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



756 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ZAMBIA BALANCES AID
From China and Anger
As in many other African nations, the Chinese are an enormous economic presence in Zambia, an impoverished but mineral-rich country, and their treatment of local workers has become an explosive political issue, presenting an awkward balancing act for governments desperate for foreign investment. PAGE 8
A STERN TRIBAL CODE 
Honor killing has a long history in Iraq and in the semiautonomous region of Kurdistan. As some Iraqi lawmakers try to crack down on honor killing, it has been difficult to uproot a deep-seated tribal honor code. PAGE 8
TV SHOW CHALLENGES TALIBAN
The Afghan TV show ''Eagle Four,'' in which an elite police unit takes down drug lords and the Taliban, is financed largely by American Embassy ''public diplomacy'' money in an effort to raise the esteem in which Afghans hold their much-maligned police force. The actors who star in the show are so famous that team members are stopped on the streets of Kabul and congratulated -- when they are not fielding death threats from the Taliban. PAGE 11
National
SOUTH DAKOTA IS BOMBARDED
With Brutal Weather
Even in an agricultural state that has always prided itself on stoically accepting the offerings of unpredictable skies at the heart of the continent, South Dakota is nearing the end of an unusually punishing year of weather. The seven presidential disaster declarations issued there -- part of a record 78 nationwide so far this year -- more than doubled the number in any previous year, naming all but 10 of the 66 counties as a disaster area. PAGE 18
Metropolitan
UNLEARNING NEW YORK TAWK
For the Sake of a Career
The classic New York accent is not as distinct or as prevalent as it once was, but there are plenty of native ''New Yawkers'' who not only have it but also consider it a curse. PAGE 1
Sports
FEAR OF FAILURE, AND MOTHER,
Pushed Falcons Receiver
With the help of the former Atlanta receivers coach Paul Petrino, a new work ethic and his mother's threat, the Falcons receiver Roddy White drastically turned his career around, and climbed out of the rookie trap he fell into six years ago. PAGE 1
Obituaries
ROBIN DAY, 95
He was perhaps Britain's most influential furniture designer since World War II, and his spare, practical and affordable inventions were exemplified by the now ubiquitous ''polyprop'' chair. PAGE 30
Sunday Business
QVC'S ONLINE PRESENCE
Gathers Steam and Revenue
QVC has been fine-tuning its Web site and offering mobile phone, interactive-television and iPad apps. It has also added exclusive products from reality stars along with expensive products like $5,000 high-definition televisions. Today, QVC.com, a once-negligible part of the QVC empire, accounts for about a third of QVC's domestic revenue. Page 1
SOUTHWEST, REBEL'S AIRLINE
As Southwest airlines prepares for its 40th birthday, it is flush with success. Last year, it flew 86 million passengers, more than any other airline within the United States. When rival airlines were bleeding billions of dollars, Southwest was churning out consistent profits as a low-cost carrier -- even when fuel prices soared. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
A QUESTION OF IDENTITY
In Disney's 'Tangled'
''Tangled,'' a Disney film based on the fairy tale Rapunzel, is the 50th animated movie created by the studio and is under the burden of answering an ethereal but important question: Exactly what is the studio's animated identity these days? Page 8
Magazine
A BIG, FAT MIRACLE
The author's 9-year-old son had more than 100 seizures a day, but when he started a high-fat, super-low-carb diet, the number dropped by three-quarters. Who would have thought bacon could be this good for you? Page 50
Book Review
JOHN CAGE, A COMPOSER WITH ENDLESS CREATIVITY
John Cage combined a Leonardo-like curiosity with an American optimism that let him persevere in an unconventional career. His endless creativity led him to produce a body of work that included music, poetry, painting, printmaking, politics and philosophy, writes John Adams in a new biography. Page 17
Sunday Styles
STUDY SAYS FEARLESS CHILDREN
Can Often Lack Empathy
A study shows that high levels of fearlessness in 3- and 4-year-olds is strongly associated with aggression and a lack of empathy. This news may surprise risk-loving America, where parents typically beam with pride when their undaunted child mounts the big slide. Page 4
Automobiles
THE MARKET FOR MUSCLE CARS
In 2009, the prices of big-engine cars had plunged, while the broader market in collectible cars underwent a comparatively mild correction. Since then, top-notch cars have no trouble finding buyers at strong prices while cars that are questionable are languishing. But there are indications that the muscle-car market is firming up. Page 1
Editorial
NOW, FOR SOME LEADERSHIP
If Congress fails to rein in the deficit, it will be because of a lack of political courage. Week in Review, Page 7
A CLOSE LOOK AT THE LABELS
The tobacco industry is still spending billions to promote its products. Every weapon should be used to reduce the carnage. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
Republican Party elders do not know how to stop Sarah Palin from taking the 2012 nomination if she wants it. Week in Review, Page 8
MAUREEN DOWD
Would Republicans make Indianapolis collateral damage in their eagerness to wipe out Obama? Week in Review, Page 9
Chess Page 24
Obituaries Page 30-31
Weather SportsSunday, Page 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (83%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); ETHICS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (75%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (60%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (57%); WORLD WAR II (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) ZAMBIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFRICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010



757 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2818 words

HEADLINE: Malbecs in Mendoza

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO. 
ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO is the Sao Paulo bureau chief for The New York Times, covering Latin America.

 BODY:
THE sunlight sliced through the clear glass of the gazebo-like restaurant at Familia Zuccardi, one of dozens of wineries located in the small town of Maipu, just outside the city of Mendoza, Argentina. The purple-red malbec and torrontes grapevines glistened in the early afternoon sun. Inside, a waitress poured us chardonnay as bread sticks and an appetizer of ham ravioli arrived. She brought a different chardonnay for the cannelloni filled with sweetbread. Then a hearty malbec, Argentina's signature wine, accompanied the main course of baby goat rolls filled with sun-dried tomatoes and aubergine.
For the apple with cardamom soup, oak ice cream and goat cheese -- the ''pre-dessert'' on this tasting menu -- a sweet white wine cleared the palate. Then one more malbec appeared for the dessert of yerba mate foam with grapefruit and orange caviar.
After getting up from the table, more than a little lightheaded, we passed through a courtyard where visitors had put their feet up and were sipping tea while reading books amid the chirping birds and warm sun peeking through the trees. No one seemed in any rush to leave. 
Such is winery-hopping in Mendoza -- Latin America's largest winemaking region. Situated some 600 miles west of Buenos Aires, the province is home to more than 800 wineries, about 100 of which actively receive tourists. And as Argentine wine exports continue to grow by 25 percent a year, this 57,000-square-mile area is drawing not only more tourists, but also vintners, who see in Mendoza the same charm and potential that propelled more established wine regions decades ago.
''Mendoza is Napa 30 or 40 years ago,'' said Michael Evans, a former Democratic campaign strategist from Washington, D.C., who moved to Mendoza six years ago to go into the wine business.
But while money is pouring in, charming hotels are popping up, and wineries are going all-out architecturally, Mendoza remains very much an old-world experience. In the course of two visits over the past two years (the most recent in May), I found that days can easily turn into a week driving along dusty roads, knocking on winery doors and indulging in lunches that never seem to end.
Mendoza and wine have been intricately intertwined since the 1550s when Spanish settlers brought vineyard cuttings from Chile's Central Valley to what are now the provinces of Mendoza and San Juan. More than 300 years later a provincial governor, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, instructed a French agronomist to bring grapevine cuttings from France. Argentina can thank him for its original malbecs, the robust red wines that are such perfect accompaniments to the country's beef-heavy diet and which have become synonymous with its wine exports in the past decade.
New winemaking expertise arrived in the 1800s with the first wave of European immigrants, many escaping a phylloxera epidemic that had ravaged vineyards in their homelands.
After an earthquake in 1861 that killed at least 5,000 people, the city of Mendoza was rebuilt with large squares and wider streets and sidewalks to help resist future earthquake damage. Today those refinements, especially the sprawling plaza with its colorful fountain, lend the place a grand and stately feel.
In the decades that followed the quake, Mendoza developed into a center for winemaking and olive oil production, with its wine gaining fame in the early 1900s when winemakers began exporting it during the country's economic boom. But when the country fell on harder economic times, foreign investment dried up and so did the quality of Argentine wine.
Things began to turn around in the 1990s, when the winemaker Nicolas Catena, scion of the Catena Zapata winery, pioneered the modern malbec. After a stint as an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, he returned to Argentina in the early 1980s and began planting vines at different altitudes, up to almost 5,000 feet above sea level, and took advantage of microclimates that allow for more varied blends. More recently, millions of dollars in foreign capital have been flowing in from around the globe, with investors attracted by the relatively cheap land and a healthier Argentine economy. They are both buying vineyards outright and pumping life into traditional family operations. Kendall Jackson and Moet & Chandon have facilities there.
But still, while its wineries are fortified with state-of-the-art technology and its visitor centers rival any in Napa Valley, it remains a region where the slow pace and rustic backdrop recall an earlier age.
First-time visitors to Mendoza hoping to sample lots of wines are often disappointed to learn how far apart the wineries are and how limited their hours can be. Visiting four or five wineries in a weekend is an ambitious agenda, which is why I strongly urge staying longer.
There are several ways to approach the visit. My girlfriend and I stayed in the city of Mendoza. With a population of 110,000, it has wonderful restaurants along with places to stay that range from boutique hotels to chains like the Park Hyatt and the Sheraton. Outside the city, many wineries also have inns on the premises, offering everything from simple rooms to luxurious hideaways with access to horses and golf.
If you stay in Mendoza, however, you will need a car to visit the wineries. You can rent one or do what we did, which is to hire a taxi for multiple day trips at about $100 a day. We found that our driver, with a cellphone full of winery numbers, was invaluable in making the most of our time there.
Most of the better wineries are located 30 minutes to two hours from downtown Mendoza, so planning is critical. (Also, some of the larger wineries require reservations.)
If time is tight, choose a handful of the wineries recommended by local sommeliers and wander at leisure at each for half a day. Or stay in one of the smaller rural towns like Maipu, Godoy Cruz or Lujan de Cuyo, with quaint inns and spectacular mountain views, and concentrate on wineries clustered nearby.
While driving is still the easiest option, a 7.75-mile light rail connecting some of the nearby towns to Mendoza, including Godoy Cruz and Maipu, is scheduled to begin operation in the first half of 2011. And tour companies are expanding their range of services. You can organize a bicycle tour with companies like DuVine Adventures to visit four or five small wineries in a day. As the day progresses, however, safety does become an issue. ''Everyone says it's fun in the beginning but it becomes complicated at the end when the bike starts to sway from one side to the other,'' said Fernando Szczurowski, a sommelier at Azafran, a restaurant in downtown Mendoza.
We set out with a driver one morning armed with the names of a few wineries suggested by the hotel. The sun was blindingly bright. Mendoza is arid, with northern Arizona-like days of temperatures that can reach 90 degrees in the summer and plummet to 50 at night.
Our first stop was at Belasco de Baquedano, in Lujan de Cuyo, about a 25-minute drive from the city. We passed through the stately gates and drove down a long dirt driveway stretching between the vineyards that ended at the massive front door of a modern, five-story Mayan-style building. The 222-acre vineyard, whose malbec vines turned 100 years old this year, is an example of those that have benefited from the foreign dollars pouring in over the last decade -- in particular, the Belasco family of Spain, which owns four wineries there and expanded to Mendoza to make Argentine malbec. The winery boasts modern conveniences like mechanical steam barrel washers and gravity-driven grape delivery from sorting table to tank. The visitor center opened in January of 2008.
A young Argentine woman greeted us at the entrance and led us and another small group on a detailed tour, free of charge, of the modern facility, with its red lacquered concrete floors and shiny stainless steel tanks. The highlight was an ''aroma room'' where we were able to sample 46 fragrances -- everything from mint to mushroom to geranium.
We ended our visit at a tasting lounge with a wood bar framed by large paintings of Argentine landscapes. Later we made our way to Familia Zuccardi for our spectacular lunch. It was so good, in fact, that we returned at day's end to experience their tasting room, where a pleasant sommelier from Britain with dreams of becoming a winemaker awed us with his knowledge of Argentine malbecs. We ended up buying a few bottles, along with some house olive oil.
One of the vineyards we most wanted to visit was that of Catena Zapata, as it produced some of the wines we had grown to love at home in Brazil.
Getting a tour, however, proved difficult. On our first trip, a long weekend, we learned that it was closed on Sundays, when many Mendocinos spend the day barbecuing with their families.
On our second trip, a driver called on a Friday afternoon and was told that the tours were all full. Ultimately we decided to drive over and try our luck. After explaining that I was a journalist working on an article, we were allowed in. We drove along the broad road leading up to the winery's main building, designed like a yellow Mayan temple and finished in 2001. The snow-capped Andes loomed in the background.
Inside, we joined a group of about eight on a tour that included a movie -- with English subtitles -- telling the story of Mr. Catena's forefather Nicola Catena, who sailed to Argentina from Italy in 1898.
We were also able to peek down into the steel vats containing the wine, and at one point one of the winemakers politely stopped to answer a few of the visitors' questions. Tours are free and include a glass of wine. Tastings are 40 to 60 pesos ($10 to $15.50, at 3.88 pesos to the dollar). We tasted two or three wines for about 40 pesos, the most expensive tasting we encountered on our two trips. I bought a bottle of Angelica Zapata malbec 2006 for 180 pesos, about 25 percent less than what it costs in Brazil, which has high import taxes on wine. (Duty-free is still a better deal than the winery.)
The next day, with many wineries shut down for a holiday, we decided to take a break from our wine travels. We climbed in a hotel cab and drove about two hours out of the city and into the Andes to the sprawling Termas Cacheuta, a hotel and spa that features outdoor thermal pools of differing temperatures. Tourists can visit for a day or stay overnight at the inn and partake of massages and a diverse buffet that includes mouthwatering warm bread and cheeses. It's a great way to detox. We stayed for the day and returned to Mendoza that afternoon.
That night we dressed up a bit and headed out to Godoy Cruz, a small winemaking town about a half-hour from Mendoza, to visit 1884, a restaurant owned by the Argentine chef and grilling expert Francis Mallmann. A collaboration between Mr. Mallmann and Mr. Catena, 1884 is set inside the Escorihuela winery, where diners can eat -- weather permitting -- in a charming candle-lit courtyard. We were not overly impressed with our pasta dishes -- mine was a fairly pedestrian fettuccine with shrimp -- but we were amazed by the wine cellar filled with 600 different Argentine labels.
On Sunday, the third day of our second trip, we took another suggestion from our hotel and headed to Salentein winery in the Uco Valley, about an hour away from Mendoza. With hulking doors and clean, modern European lines, it reminded me of the Tate Modern in London. It even has an airy art gallery inside the winery featuring Dutch and Argentine painters (it is owned by Dutch investors) and sculptors like Jorge Gamarra. A glass elevator takes visitors from the ground floor to a lower level filled with stainless steel and oak barrels, which locals have dubbed ''the Bat Cave.''
We ate an unmemorable lunch while enjoying memorable views in the winery's large restaurant, and bought a malbec and two bottles of a pinot noir we liked from our tasting. Our driver shuttled us just down the road from the winery's main building to show us the peaceful, 16-room Salentein inn set amid manicured lawns and malbec vines.
That night we went back to one of our favorite restaurants in Mendoza. On our first trip we had become enchanted with Azafran, a few blocks off the main square, which specializes in local cuisine with an international twist. The thick wood tables, vintage checkered floors and wall lined with spices gave us the sense that we were in a French countryside bistro. Before selecting our main course, Mr. Szczurowski, the sommelier, accompanied us to the extensive cellar and wine store, which features some 450 labels, and discussed our tastes, encouraging us to match the wine to our food. We selected a malbec and started with the house specialty, a platter of smoked cheeses and meats. I ordered a young lamb cooked with caramelized onions. The restaurant is best known for its red tuna.
On the last night of our trip we stopped by again, this time to have a light dinner of just the cheese and meat platter, a salad and a glass of chardonnay. Then we walked a few blocks to the Hyatt, where to our surprise we discovered one of Mendoza's best wine bars near the pool.
In a project indicative of the money and innovation currently flooding the area, Mr. Evans, the American campaign strategist, and Pablo Gimenez Riili, a Mendoza winemaker, started an Argentine-American company called Vines of Mendoza in an effort to broaden the possibilities of wine tourism in the region. Vines of Mendoza selects 100 of the best wines from the region and brings them to the tasting room and vinoteca it has created at the Hyatt so that visitors, especially tourists, can sample a large number of Argentine wines in one place without having to go to each and every winery.
Another initiative is creating a sort of winery co-op, in which 85 international investors will share in the expenses (and profits) of a vineyard. The partners also plan to open a small boutique resort later this year very near the vineyards, where guests will be able to ride horses and crush grapes during the harvest.
In a comparison suggesting that the languid pace of Mendoza might not always be the only way to experience the region, Mr. Evans had one final comment: ''The vision is to create an experience that is a little closer to what you might experience in Napa, but with an Argentine flair.''
IF YOU GO
LODGING
With its stately restored Spanish colonial facade, the Park Hyatt is one of the city's most prestigious hotels. On the Plaza de la Independencia, it has a wine bar with more than 100 Argentine wines. Rooms with twin or king beds start at about $190; mendoza.park.hyatt.com.
The Wine Hotels Collection Web site lists hotels at wineries around the world; winehotelscollection.com. One to look for is , a relaxing inn just up a gravel road from the Salentein winery. Rooms start at $150 with breakfast included; bodegasalentein.com.
WHERE TO EAT
One excellent choice in the city of Mendoza is Azafran, a few blocks from the Plaza de la Independencia. A wine cellar/shop offers 450 wines. Main dishes are about 20 to 40 pesos, or about $5 to $10 at 3.88 pesos to the dollar. Reservations recommended; bve.com.ar.
On one side of the main Plaza de la Independencia is Francesco Barbera, a traditional Italian restaurant surrounded by tranquil gardens. Main dishes are about 50 to 80 pesos. Reservations recommended; francescoristorante.com.ar.
Outside the city, Familia Zuccardi winery features a seven-course tasting menu with six glasses of wine for 180 pesos, and a three-course regional menu for 160 pesos. Reservations recommended; casadelvisitante.com.ar.
Inside the Escorihuela winery in nearby Godoy Cruz, the restaurant 1884 boasts 600 wines and specializes in grilled meats. Main courses are about 80 to 160 pesos. Open for lunch and dinner. Reservations recommended; 1884restaurante.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2010; December 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, the cover story on Nov. 21 about Mendoza in Argentina, Latin America's largest wine-making region, misstated the time period during which a provincial governor, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, instructed a French agronomist to bring grapevine cuttings from France to Mendoza. It was more than 300 years after Spanish settlers brought cuttings from Chile's Central Valley, not ''just a few years later.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The cover story on Nov. 21 about Mendoza in Argentina, Latin America's largest winemaking region, explained the use of the ''aroma room'' at the Belasco de Baquedano winery incorrectly. The 46 winemaking fragrances displayed in the room are available so visitors can use them to explore the ''olfactory nuances'' of the wine. The winemakers do not infuse the wines with the scents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The vineyard at Salentein winery on the eastern slopes of the Andes in the Uco Valley in Mendoza, Argentina. (TR1)
LEFT: Angelo Nen, 30, tours the cellar at the Catena Zapata winery. RIGHT The restaurant at the Zuccardi winery in the Maipu region of Mendoza..
BELOW: Cecile Kemps, left, and Sanne Valk, tourists from the Netherlands, beside a vineyard at Salentein winery's 16- room posada in Mendoza.
LEFT: Lunch at the Familia Zuccardi winery. BELOW LEFT: Rib-eye with chimichurri sauce and Patagonian potatoes at 1884. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6
 TR7) MAPS (TR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (91%); WINE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); ICE CREAM (74%); CHEESE (71%); AGRONOMY (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ANDES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010



758 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article in some editions on Thursday about an annual report to Congress that raised speculation about possible meddling in the world's Web traffic by a Chinese Internet service provider last spring misstated the name of the group that issued the report. It is the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, not Revision Commission. The article also referred incorrectly to The Global Times, which quoted a top Chinese Internet researcher as saying such meddling was technically not feasible. It is a state-run English-language newspaper in China, not a Web site of the People's Daily, the newspaper of China's ruling Communist Party. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (88%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



759 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Midterm Maneuvers

BYLINE: By NOAH FELDMAN. 
Noah Feldman, a contributing writer, teaches law at Harvard University.

 BODY:
My daughter was looking at President Obama's picture in the paper the morning after the midterm elections. ''Daddy,'' she asked, ''why does he look so frustrated?'' Explaining divided government to a 3-year-old turns out to be harder than you'd think. But she did seem to get the point that, while Obama was still the president, his job was about to become much more difficult.
Historically, presidents thwarted by the loss of a Congressional majority have turned their attention to foreign policy -- no doubt the reason that Obama left for Asia within a few days of the election. The explanation for the shift in focus is constitutional as much as tactical. The founding fathers, convinced that diplomacy could not be conducted by committee, gave the executive substantial discretion in conducting foreign affairs. Although Congress can ask questions and conduct oversight hearings, a president who wants to have an impact internationally can act more or less on his own. 
Unfortunately the opportunities for high-impact, high-visibility foreign policy successes in the next two years are limited. The Afghan war has its own internal timing; the United States' relationship with China is too complex for major breakthroughs; and, as Obama discovered at the G-20 summit, divergent economic interests can make even allies reluctant to compromise. Thus far, the Obama administration's chief foreign-policy achievement has simply been to remind the world that the United States can be cooperative. To achieve more tangible foreign-policy results will require focusing on a familiar, thorny problem: the Middle East, where the Obama administration has already begun to engage.
Can Obama succeed where so many others have not? Israel and the Palestinian Authority will not, of course, make things easy. No sooner had direct peace talks begun in September -- itself a victory for the Obama team -- than the Palestinian side discontinued them over Israel's refusal to renew a 10-month partial ban on building in the West Bank. Earlier this month, Israel announced that more than a thousand new housing units would be built in the Har Homa suburb of Jerusalem -- a community that is outside the West Bank according to Israel, but inside the West Bank to Palestinians and the international community. Nevertheless, neither side has given up on the talks, and the Obama administration has continued its behind-the-scenes efforts to restart them.
Assessing the likelihood of an agreement requires what may seem like a cynical analysis of the two sides' motivations for talking. The Palestinian Authority is congenitally weak. Hamas controls Gaza, which has a Palestinian population approaching that of the West Bank. Dealing with Israel can be seen as a last-ditch attempt by President Mahmoud Abbas to stave off a permanent split of Palestine into two different subcountries. Although they are not prepared to negotiate with Israel, senior Hamas leaders have implied that they would provisionally accept a Palestinian state reuniting Gaza and the West Bank with 1967 borders. Of course, their motivation is presumably that they believe that Hamas could then take power democratically -- hardly a reassuring thought for Abbas or the Israelis.
As for Israel, most of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's right-wing coalition government is profoundly skeptical of any territorial compromise; Netanyahu would not pay a domestic price if the negotiations fail. Why, then, has he not scuttled them outright? Many Israelis consider Iran's nuclear capacity an existential threat. Yet both the Bush and Obama administrations have discouraged Israel from attacking Iran and starting a regional war. Netanyahu appears to believe that if he cooperates to some degree with the Obama administration's request that he negotiate, he can -- eventually -- demand in return U.S. cooperation (or at least acquiescence) in an Israeli move against Iran. In the meantime, Netanyahu's goal is to satisfy his coalition partners by showing resistance to the United States on settlement building without wholly alienating Obama. No doubt he hopes that Republican control of the U.S. House of Representatives will protect him from any pressure brought to bear by Obama and keep up the drumbeat on the Iranian threat.
The wild card is Hezbollah, the Shiite political party and militia in Lebanon that serves as Iran's front-line proxy in its indirect war with Israel. At the moment, Hezbollah is especially nervous about its impending indictment by a United Nations tribunal investigating the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri. Faced with a loss of credibility for killing Hariri, a Sunni who is widely seen as a martyr, Hezbollah hopes to discredit the tribunal. It has tried blaming Israel and hinting that its militia might take to the streets. Provoking an Israeli attack would be the riskiest strategy, but it cannot be ruled out. In both Israel and Lebanon, many people speak about such a war in terms of when, not if -- and both Iran and Hezbollah might prefer it to occur according to their timing rather than Israel's. Needless to say, such a war would be disastrous not only for Lebanese and Israelis, but also for Palestinians, whose hopes for a state of their own would be crushed if Israel were attacked by Iranian missiles lobbed on their behalf but without their consent.
This picture may look bleak. But it's not surprising that the Obama administration still encourages both sides to negotiate. In the short-term, a peace deal is possible precisely because the Palestinian Authority is worried about Hamas and Israel is worried about Iran. Overlapping weakness has been a good basis for peacemaking in the region ever since the Camp David accords.
And if an Israeli-Palestinian deal were to emerge, new circumstances would give rise to new possibilities. In the wake of such a deal, Hamas would have the incentive to evolve from rejection of Israel to pragmatic acceptance and grudging formal acceptance -- the path followed by the P.L.O. under Yasir Arafat. Israel, for its part, might reach peace agreements with Saudi Arabia and even Syria, which could move away from the Iranian orbit. Then the United States could argue to Israel that Iran has been isolated to such a degree that bombing it has become unnecessary. Indeed, in this situation, Israel and some Arab states, which already share a common interest in limiting the power of Iran, could actually form an anti-Iranian alliance.
None of this is impossible. Success would be tremendously valuable. And failure, even if likely, would not be especially costly. After all, right now, expectations are so very low.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARA TODRAS-WHITEHILL) GRAPHIC: 63% of Americans surveyed SYMPATHIZE more with Israelis than with Palestinians, representing the HIGHEST level of support since 1991. (GRAPHIC BY ASSOCIATED PRESS. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : GALLUP, FEBRUARY 2010.) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); HAMAS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



760 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: LAUGH LINES

 BODY:
JAY LENO
At the opening of the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Texas, Dick Cheney joked that the center is the only shovel-ready project in America. Yeah. Well, I don't know about that. Dick Cheney taking a buddy hunting? That could be another shovel-ready project. 
DAVID LETTERMAN
Sarah Palin says she's going to run for president in 2012. Donald Trump said he's going to run for president in 2012 against Sarah Palin. Nice to know there will be somebody equally unqualified.
CONAN O'BRIEN
Congressional House Democrats have been pushing for $12 billion more for unemployment benefits. They say we must not turn our backs on those who until two weeks ago were House Democrats.
JIMMY FALLON
Yesterday a group of economists unveiled a new plan to reduce the deficit by $6 trillion. All we have to do is switch from regular incandescent light bulbs to not having a federal government.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Jimmy Margulies: The Record (Hackensack, N.J.) King Features Syndicate
Andy Marlette: Pensacola News Journal
Jack Ohman: The Oregonian, Tribune Media Services
 Steve Kelley: The Times-Picayune, Creators Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (88%); JAY LENO (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SARAH PALIN (70%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); DONALD TRUMP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



761 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Nuking The White House

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
You know you're in trouble when you need Henry Kissinger to vouch for you.
But there was the one formerly known as ''The One'' sitting at a table with a bunch of old, white, Republican dudes, choosing the most abstruse issue on the agenda for his moment to Man Up.
With Republicans treating the president like a dirt sandwich and Democrats begging the president to throw a knuckle sandwich, Obama drew his line in the sand on telemetry. 
The Start arms treaty used to be a chance for American presidents to stare down the Russians. Now it's a chance for a Democratic president, albeit belatedly, to stare down the Republicans.
The administration dilly-dallied for months on New Start, which should have been a no-brainer, even after it was clear that Senator Jon Kyl was a problem and needed to be cultivated, and even after it was clear that Republicans were on track to grab some power back.
But faced with the treaty's unraveling, with possible deleterious consequences for sanctions on Iran and supply lines for our troops in Afghanistan, Obama had no choice. Even if the treaty doesn't much affect our strategic security, it affects the relationship with Russia and our standing in the world. And resetting the relationship with Russia, with his buddy Dmitri, is the president's only significant foreign policy accomplishment.
Besides, a man who won the Nobel Peace Prize on layaway doesn't want to be responsible for any loose Russian nukes ending up in the crazy 'Stans.
As Richard Wolffe notes in his new book, ''Revival: The Struggle for Survival Inside the Obama White House,'' the president drove Rahm Emanuel crazy by spending his first months in office toiling on the details of Start when the chief of staff was trying to get him to focus on the economy and his domestic agenda.
Nuclear arms control, Wolffe writes, was one of Obama's first interests as a student at Columbia University. And his head is still in those wonky clouds.
''Most people don't really give a pig's patootie about a nuclear arms deal with Russia,'' James Carville told reporters last week. But he agreed that the president needed to get out of his spineless spiral, even repeating his put-down from the Democratic primaries, that if Hillary gave Barry one of her spheres of testicular fortitude, ''they'd both have two.''
Just as Bill Clinton once snatched welfare reform from the Republicans, now President Obama is playing W.'s national security card against the Republicans.
It would have been nice if Obama had made his tough stand earlier, on tax cuts or ''don't ask, don't tell.'' And since he doesn't have the votes yet, he risks losing and taking a second shellacking. Popeye pulling out the spinach too late.
Still, if the president calls the Republicans' bluff and makes them vote against ratification, they look petty. Is it worth risking the obliteration of the world to obliterate Obama's second term?
In The Washington Post recently, Robert Kagan advised his fellow conservatives to show maturity and readiness to govern: ''Blocking the treaty will produce three unfortunate results: It will strengthen Vladimir Putin, let the Obama administration off the hook when Russia misbehaves and set up Republicans as the fall guy if and when U.S.-Russian relations go south.''
Senator Richard Lugar, the only Republican so far willing to vote with the president, was blunt in warning Kyl of the danger of playing politics with nukes. His message underscored the hypocrisy of Republicans who shriek at the Iranians building a nuclear bomb while shrugging at the thousands of nukes that the Russians have floating around.
''One of those warheads -- and there were 13,300 originally -- one of them could demolish my city of Indianapolis,'' Lugar told Andrea Mitchell on MSNBC.
The president and his advisers have been moping since the election. Richard Wolffe says the fourth-quarter player in the Oval, who has struggled to figure out whether he's an insider or an outsider, aims to position himself as a statesman. He wants to come across as the grown-up in the room, disciplining puerile Republicans who would ''mess with nuclear weapons and screw up alliances.''
The Republicans may help Obama if they act so vindictive, entitled and puffed up that they turn off the voters who just anointed them.
Sarah Palin's fans have hijacked what is supposed to be a fun talent contest, ''Dancing With the Stars,'' and turned it into an annoying straw vote for the Palin family. And on Friday, as Americans were rebelling against groping airport pat-downs, the soon-to-be speaker of the House, who was supposed to travel like real Americans, put himself above the madding crowd.
The Times's Jeff Zeleny was on the scene and reported that John Boehner did not wait in line or go through security: he ''was escorted around the metal detectors and body scanners, and taken directly to the gate.''
So much for Reagan's trust but verify. Now we've got distrust and vilify.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); JON KYL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

TITLE: Revival: The Struggle for Survival Inside the Obama White House (Book)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



762 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: In Wake of Losses, New Powers for a Political Master

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional Democrats engineered a leadership change in response to the election devastation, but the shakeup did not come in the House, where Nancy Pelosi held on to power in her caucus despite having lost more than 60 seats, the Democratic majority and the speaker's gavel.
Instead, the most notable and potentially consequential shift came in the Senate, where Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, nominally still No. 3 in the slimmed-down majority party's pecking order, gained new power and responsibility for more closely melding the Democrats' strategy and message between now and the very tough 2012 elections. 
The setup arranged by Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, who himself survived a serious re-election scare in Nevada, essentially puts Mr. Schumer at Mr. Reid's right hand. It makes him a partner in deciding what Democrats are going to do, when they are going to do it and how they are going to present their work -- and the Republican opposition -- to the public.
The new arrangement also limits the role of Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic whip and second in command, who will see some of his duties shift to Mr. Schumer.
The two men, longtime colleagues and roommates in Washington, might have become rivals for party leader had Mr. Reid lost his seat. Instead, Mr. Schumer appears to have come out on top in a much less visible power struggle that was settled primarily by Mr. Reid.
The decision to hand more authority to Mr. Schumer, who ran the campaign operation that seized the Senate majority in 2006 and expanded it in 2008, is a response to rising complaints from Democratic senators that the scheduling of issues on the floor has been erratic and that Republicans have been allowed to keep Democrats on the defensive.
A case in point: Some Democrats thought Mr. Reid's decision before the election to set aside the first week of the lame-duck session to consider a popular but relatively unexciting measure on the safety of the food supply was not quite the first post-election message Democrats wanted to convey to voters still struggling against the economic riptides.
In a series of lengthy air-clearing party meetings over the past week, Senate Democrats have presented their complaints to the leadership, warning that they had better steady the ship or face the prospect of huge losses in two years.
The urgency is particularly keen among the more than 20 Democrats facing re-election in 2012 -- compared with just 10 Republicans, a ratio that makes the possible loss of control in the Senate much more likely.
Mr. Schumer, a political chess master and partisan pit bull, is seen by many of his colleagues as just what they need -- a strategist who can keep Republicans off balance and better convey to the voting public what Democrats are trying to accomplish and why Republicans are standing in the way.
''We lost some of the American people because we were so hyperfocused on policy we allowed ourselves to get on the defensive,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat who will be on the ballot next time. ''If you want to pick somebody to help you get on offense, Chuck Schumer is the right guy.''
Officially, Mr. Schumer will be both vice chairman of the Democratic caucus and chairman of the Democratic Policy Committee. In those roles, he will also share control over the party's messaging apparatus run out of the Senate Democratic Communications Center, better known as the war room.
Mr. Schumer has been outspoken in his belief that Democrats need to concentrate their energies on initiatives aimed at the middle class, a view that the rank and file applaud.
Senator Bernard Sanders, the Vermont independent who is allied with Democrats, said the new approach ''will combine the substantive work on policies to help middle-class working families with the savvy and skills needed to communicate those policies to the American people.''
The transition was not without some pain. None of the principals would talk about how the changes came about, but insiders with knowledge of the events provided details.
In the aftermath of the loss of six seats, Mr. Reid, who narrowly hung on to his majority, quickly began considering structural changes. He repositioned some of his top aides and reached out to Mr. Schumer, whom he hoped to lure back to head the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Mr. Schumer was not interested in returning to that position, though he offered to pitch in.
The prospect of having Mr. Schumer seek the No. 2 spot was also raised, sources said, but was dismissed as too divisive when Senate Democrats were still absorbing the election losses. Instead, Mr. Reid settled on the new duties for Mr. Schumer, building on a concept that had been bouncing around for months among Senate Democrats.
After meeting with Mr. Schumer, Mr. Reid also had what was described as a tense meeting with Mr. Durbin to inform him of the changes.
Mr. Schumer's new post carries both risks and the prospect of rewards. Some in the Senate say the arrangement with strategic responsibilities shared between Mr. Reid and Mr. Schumer could ultimately prove unworkable. And if Democrats fare badly over the next two years, Mr. Schumer is now in line for much of the blame.
Still, Mr. Schumer also knows that a strong performance would put him just where he wants to be -- in line for the top job.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer will play a larger role in shaping the Democratic message. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); HARRY REID (79%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



763 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 7863 words

HEADLINE: The Rogue Room

BYLINE: By ROBERT DRAPER. 
Robert Draper is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of ''Dead Certain: The Presidency of George W. Bush.''

 BODY:
On the night of the midterm elections earlier this month, Sarah Palin stayed up until 3 in the morning. From her hotel bedroom in Manhattan, she and her husband, Todd, followed the returns while she wrote e-mails on her iPad -- congratulating winners, consoling losers -- while reading others from people who wanted her to know that they had cast their vote for her daughter Bristol on ''Dancing With the Stars'' the evening before. Like much of her recent life, Palin's day had been replete with reminders of the clout she had rapidly acquired. She had spent most of her time ensconced at the Fox television studios, though she managed to squeeze in a jog in Central Park -- which she promptly chronicled on Twitter: ''Beautiful!'' Also at the studios was her fellow Fox News contributor Karl Rove, who had recently questioned in a British newspaper whether Palin's new reality TV series, ''Sarah Palin's Alaska,'' made her appear Oval Office-worthy. 
The building was abuzz over what would ensue when the two would inevitably bump into each other. The moment came after Palin finished a segment with the anchor Bret Baier and saw Rove lingering stageside with Brit Hume, a Fox colleague, holding a well-marked copy of ''Alaska for Dummies'' -- a prop clearly intended to mollify Palin. She laughed, used her phone's camera to take a picture of Rove with the book, traded brief hellos and then left the studio without mentioning Rove's earlier comment.
Of course, Palin's purpose for being at Fox on Nov. 2 was to share her views on the midterm elections that she worked so vigorously to influence. It was indicative of the competing demands on her time that her participation in the campaign's final days was weirdly anticlimactic. In the three weeks before the elections, Palin was bombarded with campaigning requests, many of them sent to her personal e-mail account. But her young son, Trig, was to have an operation -- routine but still worrisome -- on the Friday before Election Day, and so the mother was loath to commit to anything. Trig's procedure went well. That evening, Palin's political adviser, Andrew Davis, pulled an all-nighter arranging for her to make a Saturday drop-in on behalf of John Raese, the West Virginia senatorial candidate who was trailing the Democratic nominee, Joe Manchin, the popular governor. Raese's wife, Elizabeth, had issued a personal plea to Palin to save the day.
After Palin arrived in Charleston, and exhorted the state's ''mountain mamas'' to ''keep Manchin in the mansion,'' she and Todd flew to New York on Saturday afternoon. She was still mulling over several invitations to campaign along the Eastern Seaboard. One was a Tea Party Express event in Wilmington, Del., in support of the controversial senatorial candidate Christine O'Donnell. Palin's endorsement of O'Donnell over a more-moderate candidate had been catalytic to her primary victory. Later Palin authorized an adviser, Randy Scheunemann, and two others to go to Wilmington to help O'Donnell in her debate preparation. But this particular event for the woman who proclaimed ''I'm not a witch'' was on Sunday -- Halloween -- and Palin prudently elected not to attend. Instead, she spent the afternoon watching the New York Jets play from the luxury box of the team's owner, Woody Johnson.
In Syracuse, meanwhile, the campaign staff for the Republican Congressional candidate Ann Marie Buerkle, who had erased her Democratic opponent's double-digit lead, was begging for Palin to make an appearance. Despite significant logistical complications, Palin wanted to oblige them. But a story in Politico (''Next for G.O.P. Leaders: Stopping Sarah Palin'') that quoted unnamed party operatives fretting over Palin's growing popularity had her juices flowing, and her schedule suddenly became cluttered with Fox segments, which allowed her a platform to fight back. (''Some within the establishment don't like the fact that I won't back down to a good-old-boys' club,'' she declared on Fox Business Network.) On the day before the elections, she could find time to record only one final robocall of more than 25 she made throughout the campaign cycle -- this one for Tom Tancredo, a third-party candidate for governor of Colorado whose strident remarks about illegal immigration made him a ''destructive'' force according to the Tea Party leader Dick Armey.
As it developed, Tancredo would lose by 14 points and Raese by 10, while Buerkle's race was so close that a recount was imminent. The fate of another endorsee, Joe Miller -- who was running for a U.S. Senate seat in Alaska against a Palin nemesis, Lisa Murkowski -- remained in doubt. Palin had thrown her early support to two candidates backed by the Tea Party who wound up losing, O'Donnell in Delaware and Sharron Angle in Nevada, which helped the Democratic Party retain control of the Senate. Nonetheless, it was a good night in Palin's estimation: a majority of her endorsees won, the Republicans took the House and Bristol survived another round of voting on ''Dancing With the Stars.'' After three or four hours of sleep, the Palins took a commercial flight (economy class) out of Kennedy Airport on the morning of Nov. 3, headed back to Wasilla, Alaska.
Andrew Davis, her adviser, saw the Palins off, and I met him for coffee later that morning in Midtown Manhattan. Davis is a personable and quick-witted 33-year-old Massachusetts native who was a deputy campaign manager for George W. Bush and Dick Cheney in 2004 and later an opposition researcher for the Republican National Committee before working with Palin at the close of the 2008 campaign. He's nonetheless low-profile in the extreme, like all of Palin's senior associates. (The New York Times Magazine's photo editors had been trying to find an image of Davis; he assured me that they would not succeed.) Davis and his colleagues recognize that the issue of trust informs Sarah Palin's every dealing with the world beyond Wasilla since her circular-firing-squad experience at the close of the 2008 presidential campaign. Her inner circle shuns the media and would speak to me only after Palin authorized it, a process that took months. They are content to labor in a world without hierarchy or even job descriptions -- ''None of us has titles,'' Davis said -- and where the adhesive is a personal devotion to Palin rather than the furtherance of her political career.
Davis's main task this year had been serving as Palin's point man throughout the endorsement process. He was now tallying her midterm scorecard, which at the time was 50 wins and 32 losses (with 8 not yet decided), including victories by 14 so-called mama grizzly Republican candidates. Some of Palin's picks were early, bold and pivotal, as in the case of Nikki Haley, who is now South Carolina's governor-elect. Other picks -- like those for Tim Scott (South Carolina's first Republican African-American congressman in more than a century) and Marco Rubio (the incoming senator from Florida and a rising G.O.P. star on par with Palin) -- came too late to be consequential except, perhaps, to her own ambitions. Palin also raised more than $10 million for Republican candidates and committees -- including the Republican National Committee, which plastered her image on the center of its Web page at the close of the election cycle. Having crawled from the wreckage of the 2008 presidential campaign and her much-derided resignation as governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin had emerged as arguably the most captivating and influential Republican in America -- and therefore a viable contender for the presidential nomination in 2012.
So I asked her political adviser whether there would be a summoning of the troops in the coming days to discuss what the next moves will be. Davis laughed and replied, ''That's not going to happen.'' Each of them, he said, would simply be doing the work that was in front of them that day, the way things always operated in Palin World. I brought up an ABC News/Washington Post poll taken three weeks before, which concluded that Palin's favorability rating among registered voters stood at 39 percent, while 54 percent viewed her unfavorably and a whopping 67 percent saw her as unqualified to be president. ''On a staff level, we all think about ways we can improve her numbers,'' Davis said. ''It's politics -- that's our job.'' But, I pressed, had he discussed the subject with her? ''I'm not going to sit around and ask her, 'What do you think of your approval rating?' '' Davis said. ''I'm just not.'' Then he added, ''Maybe the family's talked about it.''
''I am,'' SarahPalin told me the next day when I asked her if she was already weighing a run for president. ''I'm engaged in the internal deliberations candidly, and having that discussion with my family, because my family is the most important consideration here.'' Palin went on to say that there weren't meaningful differences in policy among the field of G.O.P. hopefuls ''but that in fact there's more to the presidency than that'' and that her decision would involve evaluating whether she could bring unique qualities to the table.
''Yes, the organization would have to change,'' Palin said during an hourlong phone conversation. ''I'd have to bring in more people -- more people who are trustworthy,'' she clarified. Palin said that her experience as John McCain's running mate was for the most part ''amazing, wonderful, do it again in a heartbeat.'' But she added, ''What Todd and I learned was that the view inside the bus was much better than underneath it, and we knew we got thrown under it by certain aides who weren't principled'' and that ''the experience taught us, yes, to be on guard and be very discerning about who we can and can't trust in the political arena.''
She went on: ''I know that a hurdle I would have to cross, that some other potential candidates wouldn't have to cross right out of the chute, is proving my record. That's the most frustrating thing for me -- the warped and perverted description of my record and what I've accomplished over the last two decades. It's been much more perplexing to me than where the lamestream media has wanted to go about my personal life. And other candidates haven't faced these criticisms the way I have.''
I asked her if by avoiding the national press, she didn't bear at least some responsibility for the way the public viewed her. ''I'm on television nearly every single day with reporters,'' she shot back. ''Now granted, that's mainly through my job at Fox News, and I'm very proud to be associated with them, but I'm not avoiding anything or anybody. I'm on Facebook and Twitter. I'm out there. I want to talk about my record, though.'' Palin was referring to ''getting in there and cleaning up corruption, taking on the oil companies and the good old boys in the party, things like the natural-gas pipeline'' and ''getting things out of the government's hands, like the state-owned dairy creamery in Alaska.'' Asked if she believed in 2008 that these accomplishments made her at least as qualified as Barack Obama to be president, her response was immediate: ''Absolutely. If I had any doubt in my ability or administrative experience that would've been put to good use in a McCain administration, then I never would have accepted the nomination.''
Palin told me that because of the media's unfairness toward her, ''I fear for our democracy.'' She cited a recent Anchorage Daily News article that commented on her casual manner of dress at a rally for Joe Miller, as well as a Politico headline that used the word ''drama'' for an item about Representative Michele Bachmann's quest for a Republican leadership position. Palin viewed these references as sexist -- but also, she said, as ''distractions.''
Purposefully distracting, I asked, or just simplistic? ''How can it be simplistic?'' she scoffed. ''They're the elite,'' she said sarcastically of news organizations. ''They know much more than I know and other people like me! So, no. They know just what they're doing.''
Sarah Palin's withering regard for the media co-exists with the fact that Sarah Palin is a media sensation. Throughout this year's midterm cycle, no one commanded as much free time on the air as Palin, who of course wasn't running for office herself. Her mere presence or nonpresence at various campaign events -- or the distance that wary Republican candidates kept from her -- routinely eclipsed whatever else took place at the events themselves. Concurrently, Palin's denunciations of the Obama White House via Twitter garnered substantial attention not because the opinions were especially novel but because they were expressed with the brashness of a wily headline-grabber. All of this in addition to the fact that Palin, a former journalism major and sportscaster, happens to be a member of the media herself: a salaried Fox News contributor, the star of her own television series and a best-selling author whose second book, ''America by Heart,'' will be released by HarperCollins this week with a first printing of 1 million copies and her pick of promotional slots offered up by her adversaries in the press.
Almost everything about Palin is fresh, including her wounds. ''She gives as good as she gets,'' says the admiring former Republican strategist Mary Matalin. ''But I don't know her well enough to know if she's developed the thick skin you need to be endlessly resilient, the way Reagan could take things for decades and let them roll off his back.'' Like many Republicans, Palin hails Reagan as her political guiding light. But she has yet to channel the Gipper's soothing sunniness, instead she seems haloed in static electricity -- ''a walking wedge issue,'' as one leading conservative commentator recently described her. The road to a presidential candidacy traditionally involves a carefully sequenced gathering of tribes and marking of territory. Palin has ignored this playbook. Her only-dead-fish-go-with-the-flow improvisatory ethic is certifiably anti-Beltway and confers on Palin an aura of authenticity. It is also erratic and short on self-discipline, reminding us that Sarah Palin's ascendency is recent and she remains a work in progress -- all the while casting a very long shadow over the Republican Party, shaped like a question mark.
One afternoon in June 2009, Gov. Sarah Palin was sitting in the Washington office of her friend Fred Malek, whom she met through McCain during the 2008 campaign. She was listening to the former White House aide to Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford map out logical next steps to her political career. Focus on amassing a good record as governor, he advised her. Run for a second term. Develop some policy expertise. Do some extensive overseas travel. Generate some good will by campaigning for fellow Republicans.
Malek told me that he could tell that this wasn't what Palin wanted to hear. Here's the problem, she replied impatiently: I've got a long commute from my house to my office. I don't have the funds to pay for my family to travel with me, and the state won't pay for it, either. I can't afford to have security at my home -- anybody can come up to my door, and they do. Under the laws of Alaska, anybody can file suit or an ethics charge against me, and I have to defend it on my own. I'm going into debt.
Nothing in her former world as a small-town mayor and the governor of a sparsely populated state prepared Palin for the perverse celebrity that would engulf her after being selected as McCain's vice-presidential candidate. For better and for worse, she was now a household name, beloved or ridiculed by strangers all across America. The caricature of Palin as a vapid, winking, press-averse clotheshorse proved irresistible to late-night entertainers. Less well known was the Palin who agitated for more access to the media (other than Katie Couric), who was seen more than once passed out on her hotel bed half-buried in briefing books and index cards and whose thriftiness when it came to her wardrobe was so obvious that one senior strategist clucked of the Palins, ''These people shop at Dillards!''
The advisers who strenuously advocated for McCain to select Palin seemed as unprepared for her as they would later claim she was for the national stage. They had planned on deploying Palin like a conventional vice-presidential candidate -- fund-raisers, secondary markets -- but otherwise stowing her away for heavy debate prep. Instead, ''because she was a much bigger draw at rallies than McCain himself,'' a former adviser says, the budget for her side of the campaign ''quadrupled from what they'd anticipated; the amount of personnel had to be ratcheted up, and dealing with the Palin phenomenon came to consume much of [senior strategist Steve] Schmidt's time.'' Adoring fans screamed ''Sarah! Sarah!'' and wept as she greeted them on rope lines, but away from the crowds she felt increasingly isolated from her Alaska clan and distrustful of the staff members who would soon be anonymously criticizing her in the media. During Palin's debate prep sessions in Philadelphia, Senator Joe Lieberman was summoned to offer support to the overwhelmed and demoralized candidate. ''Schmidt says to me, 'You've got something in common with her that we don't have: you're both religious,' '' Lieberman told me. ''He actually said, 'Why don't you go in and pray with her? She was on the phone yesterday with [former Gov. Kay Orr of Nebraska], and they'd prayed at the end, and it seemed to make her feel better. ' ''
Upon losing the election, Palin hoped to return to an Alaska where, as she put it to me, ''people were thankful that I was in the governor's office.'' It therefore chagrined her when she learned that Democratic legislators like Hollis French and Beth Kerttula were no longer her allies. McCain's staff, meanwhile, reneged on a promise to cover the costs for any legal inquiry that arose during the campaign, Palin told me.
A few friends from the Beltway rushed to her defense. In December 2008, John Coale, a lawyer and a Democrat whose wife is the Fox News host Greta Van Susteren, offered to set up a political action committee and a legal-defense fund for her. Fred Malek, meanwhile, began connecting Palin to his Beltway cohort. At Malek's home in McLean, Va., the night before the clubby annual Washington gala known as the Alfalfa Club dinner, he introduced her to Alan Greenspan, Madeleine Albright, Dianne Feinstein, Andrea Mitchell, Mitch McConnell, Walter Isaacson and Dick and Liz Cheney, among others. (To Liz she exclaimed, ''It's so great to meet another mother of five!'') Later Malek hosted a foreign-policy lunch discussion with Palin; Frank Carlucci, a former secretary of defense under Reagan; Strobe Talbott, president of the Brookings Institution; and Gregory Newbold, a retired three-star general. Talbott received an appreciative grin from Palin when he told her that he himself had seen Russia from an island off the coast of Alaska -- ''I defended you on that.''
Three weeks after telling Malek that her life was difficult, Palin abruptly resigned as governor. Determined to reclaim her narrative and settle a few scores along the way, she enlisted the services of the Washington lawyer Robert Barnett, who negotiated lucrative book deals for both Clintons as well as George W. Bush. Palin surprised him with a packet of more than 20,000 words that she had already written about her childhood in Alaska. Palin spent the summer of 2009 hunkered down in a Del Mar, Calif., condominium working on her memoir with her communications director, Meghan Stapleton, and a book collaborator named Lynn Vincent. During the day, Palin took her laptop out by the condo complex's swimming pool and sat there writing in her sun visor and flip-flops, apparently unrecognized by the other residents. And she would stay up writing until 5 in the morning.
A few months later, while touring to promote her book, ''Going Rogue,'' Palin's bus pulled into Roanoke, Va., one Sunday in November, the night before an appearance at a bookstore. The author was astonished to see more than 500 people encamped outside the store, many of them in sleeping bags. ''Oh, my God, it's so cold!'' Palin exclaimed as she bounded out of the bus to greet her ecstatic fans. ''I can't believe you're waiting for me!''
But they had waited, and now she had arrived.
His voice dripping with exasperation, the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said to me one July afternoon in his office: ''If I would have told you that I could open up a Facebook account or a Twitter account, simply post quotes, and have the White House asked about those, and to have the entire White House press corps focused on your quote of the day on Facebook -- that's Sarah Palin. She tweets one thing, and all of a sudden you've got a room full of people that want to know. . . .''
Gibbs shook his head and continued: ''Now, I could say, 'You know what? I'm not going to deal with that.' And big headline: Palin Accuses Obama of X. The White House Had No Comment.''
''I just tweet; that's just the way I roll,'' Palin told me. ''Just expressing my feelings via Twitter and Facebook. I choose them because they're convenient for me, especially from Wasilla.'' She continued: ''The only thing I do consider is when I think of what's going on in the East Coast, with the difference in time zones. I can tweet before going to bed at midnight or 1 and know that they're up and at 'em, and they're going to have to respond.'' In this compressed, no-nuance cyberzone, Palin can land a hard punch without ever setting foot in the ring -- calling the then-White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel ''as shallow/narrowminded/political/irresponsible as they come'' and saying the Politico writer Jonathan Martin is ''full of crap.'' In July, Palin's BlackBerry spewed out a much-publicized volley of tweets calling on peaceful Muslims to ''refudiate'' the ''ground zero mosque'' and in the process suckering Obama into taking a position for which he was attacked by all sides. Palin wrote these without consulting anyone, her lawyer Thomas Van Flein told me: ''I found out like everyone else did. This is her political instinct in action.''
Van Flein said this as we met for coffee one morning in Anchorage a week before the midterm elections. It's a curious feature of Palin World that none of its charter members knew her before 2008. (Her two longtime Alaska aides, Kris Perry and Meghan Stapleton, left amicably but wearied by the demands involved with working for an overnight celebrity.) Van Flein met Palin in the summer of 2008, recruited by Todd Palin to give legal advice on the Troopergate controversy. He now divides his time between his Anchorage legal practice and his position as one of Palin's four lieutenants. The others are Andrew Davis, the political director who resides in Sacramento; Tim Crawford, the group's elder statesman at 58, whose political experience extends back to Goldwater and who in early 2009 was forced out as the R.N.C.'s interim finance director, by which time John Coale had already recruited him to be the treasurer of SarahPAC; and Palin's 36-year-old Los Angeles-based cybermessenger, Rebecca Mansour. Palin's broader circle also includes Jason Recher and Doug McMarlin, who handle her travel logistics from, respectively, New Orleans and Columbus, Ohio; Pam Pryor, who works with Crawford at SarahPAC as the liaison to the evangelical and Christian community; and Randy Scheunemann, a prominent neoconservative and former McCain foreign-policy adviser. Crawford, Pryor, Scheunemann and two occasional speechwriters, Chriss Winston and Lindsay Hayes, all live in or around Washington. Among the D.C. consultants, however, only Crawford interacts with Palin on a regular basis. More than once in our discussions, Van Flein referred to ''those people who are of the Beltway and those who aren't'' -- a binary worldview to which Palin obviously adheres. (Press reports variously name Fred Malek; Bill Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard; and Kim Daniels, a conservative lawyer, as key advisers, when in fact Daniels has not worked for Palin for several months and Malek and Kristol are seldom in contact with her. ''It's nearly every single day we learn a lesson about a person who claims to speak for us or work for us,'' Palin told me. ''Seems 9 times out of 10, Todd and I look at each other and say, 'Who is this speaking for us?' '')
Along with Recher, McMarlin, Pryor and Scheunemann, the four lieutenants engage in regular conference calls, sans Palin, every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern time. (There's no set agenda for these calls nor anyone leading them, and they can get ''raucous at times,'' Davis says.) Palin herself is never far from the loop, Van Flein told me: ''Think of it as a tape recorder that's on all the time. There's a constant exchange of information between the governor and her team -- who's on top of this, lots of back and forth -- and I think I'm not exaggerating to say it's 24/7. Sometime she's up e-mailing at 3 in the morning.''
Van Flein, a boyish-looking 46-year-old employment-law specialist who majored in political science at the University of Alaska, receives a $10,000 monthly retainer from SarahPAC. In return, he dispenses more than just legal advice. Van Flein contributes research to some of Palin's Facebook posts and speeches and is a staunch political advocate. (''Regardless of whoever else does or doesn't say it, I'm saying that Obamacare is now in jeopardy of repeal because of her,'' Van Flein proclaimed to me.)
But it is Rebecca Mansour who especially personifies the amorphous yet fervid network of Palin World. Mansour said to me with undisguised relish, ''I majored in English and history and minored in philosophy, but I've never been a Beltway person, so that does confuse people.'' A graduate of the American Film Institute, Mansour was writing screenplays in L.A. when, following the 2008 election, her disgust over ''what I perceived as unfair treatment'' of Palin inspired her to start the blog Conservatives4Palin. Mansour's knowledge of Palin became so encyclopedic that in the summer of 2009, Meghan Stapleton asked her if she would come to Del Mar to help with Palin's biography. The blogger had never met her subject before. She showed up with binders full of research, and when she was introduced to Palin, ''the first thing she did was hug me -- I was like, 'O.K.,' '' Mansour said with a laugh. ''She is the most ordinary person. She's shorter than I am.'' At the same time, Mansour was impressed with Palin's nimble mind. ''I remember sitting with her while she was working on the book; she would be typing furiously, and I'd ask her, 'Governor, when was the year you did such and such,' and she'd say, 'That was the year we did the budget.' And then she'd be reading the chyron at the bottom of the TV screen while typing and talking to me. And then would read to me what she just wrote, and it was brilliant.''
For her volunteer work on ''Going Rogue,'' Mansour would soon be rewarded with both a salary and a weighty portfolio. Mansour is Palin's primary speechwriter, researcher, online communications coordinator and all-purpose adviser. Because Palin often works 20-hour days, so does Mansour, because ''the governor reads, checks and approves everything that's under her name.'' Mansour regularly spars with the media on her private Twitter account for perceived inaccuracies about Palin. At the same time, she acknowledged, ''I love it when they underestimate her.''
In truth, few are underestimating Sarah Palin anymore. In that endearing manner of the Beltway echo chamber, the prevailing narrative of Palin in 2009 was that that she was an incompetent ditz. This year's story line is that she is a social-media visionary who purposefully circumnavigated the power-alley gasbags and thereby constructed a new campaigning template for the ages. The reality is that Palin's direction is determined almost entirely by her instincts -- or, as Fred Malek puts it, ''There is no uber-strategy.'' She did not game out a path forward when agreeing to two book deals with HarperCollins and then signing on with the Washington Speakers Bureau, Fox and then her television series. That same mind-set explains the lack of cohesion to Palin's virtual organization. As Crawford, Van Flein, Davis and Mansour concur, the inhabitants of Palin World have loosely defined duties and thus invariably play outside their lanes. ''It's kind of like if you reach out and for whatever reason someone's not responding, then someone else jumps in,'' Crawford says -- adding of his own job as the PAC's fund-raising guru, ''I never thought it would be a full-time gig.'' (One exception to the fuzzy lines of authority: Barnett, her lawyer, handles all of her business dealings but, being a Democrat, participates in none of her policy and political discussions.) There is no chief of staff -- though ''there's been discussion,'' Van Flein says, ''because the logistics are overwhelming and the demand is phenomenal.'' Nor, since Stapleton departed in February, does Palin have a press person -- with the result that up to eight or nine of her functionaries will find themselves fielding (and usually pocket-vetoing) media requests at any one time. Just as Palin heavily edits or at times completely writes most of her own speeches and insists on reviewing any statement issued by SarahPAC, she also must approve all media contact by her subordinates, Van Flein told me. With epic understatement he added, ''Because she may be busy, [an interview request] might languish for a few days.''
Palin's guerrilla organization can be maddening for those on the outside who are trying to divine a way in. ''I've never had so many phone calls in my life,'' Davis says. ''And the hard part is the answer's not 'No'; the answer's 'I don't know.' But it's a pure process. These decisions are hers.'' Though Palin has obviously done quite well for herself without Karl Rove's strategic seal of approval, the inefficiency of her network has allowed numerous opportunities to slip through the cracks. Several influential Republican legislators reached out to her in late 2008 and early 2009 but never heard back. Among them, Roy Blunt and Orrin Hatch requested that she attend particular functions and were rebuffed. George W. Bush's former media strategist, Mark McKinnon, offered to chat. The Beltway doyenne Juleanna Glover volunteered a ''low-key media luncheon.'' The National Review's editorial board sent word that Palin should swing by for a get-together during one of her trips to New York. Which of these proposed encounters ever came to Palin's attention is unclear. But for other possible 2012 Republican candidates -- say, Senator John Thune of South Dakota or Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota -- most of these opportunities would be worth planning an entire day around.
Then again, Palin confessed to me a tendency to avoid longtime political operatives -- ''these unprincipled people who are in it for power, money and job titles.'' Her wariness extends even to her top lieutenants, who have thus far been excluded from her 2012 considerations. Instead, she relies on Todd -- ''the one person she trusts,'' according to Rick Halford, a longtime friend and a former Alaska state senator. ''Todd is somebody that I think really grew and took on the job of being her support system, way beyond his education and where he came from.''
There are few spouses in politics as hard-working as 46-year-old Todd Mitchell Palin -- a native of Dillingham, Alaska, who married his Wasilla High School sweetheart and dropped out of college and eventually found work in the North Slope oil fields. He handles her travel. He is at times her sole accompaniment to events. He is -- with apologies to the mama grizzly -- the family's chief protector, who has been known to nix interview requests from publications that have previously, in his view, made fun of his children. It has fallen to Todd to mollify alienated aides, interview potential speechwriters and help prep his wife for an interview by Googling subject matter on his BlackBerry. Referring to the ongoing communications in Palin World, Thomas Van Flein told me, ''Todd is always part of the information chain.'' In the external world it is widely understood that when sending Sarah Palin an e-mail ''the best idea is to copy Todd on it,'' according to Malek.
As one adviser to the McCain-Palin campaign told me: ''It occurred to me on Day 1 that Todd was a very key adviser to her. I quite aggressively developed a relationship with Todd.'' Stephen Broden, a Congressional candidate from Dallas, told me that his endorsement by Palin this summer arose after a perfunctory meet-and-greet with the couple. ''I pulled Todd aside as the entourage was pulling her away,'' Broden recalled, ''and I said, 'Hey, look, man, it's gonna be hard to get ahold of her.' And he gave me his number. I talked to him.''
Broden, a conservative African-American pastor and a three-time guest on Glenn Beck's TV show, was running a quixotic campaign against the nine-term Dallas congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. Palin became highly enamored of Broden, endorsed him and kept a close eye on the race all the way through election night. (Johnson won, 76 percent to 22.) Nearly all of her 90 or so endorsed candidates were selected in a manner that was vintage Sarah Palin. As her staff members explained it to me, all potential endorsees were vetted by Andrew Davis to ascertain whether they met certain base-line standards (like being anti-abortion, pro-A.N.W.R. drilling and anti-stimulus). Palin, however, would always make the final call, often after doing research herself, as in the case of Broden. As a result, some endorsements took months to be consummated. Besieged by requests to appear with candidates, Palin could accommodate only a few of them. Much of her summer was consumed by her television filming schedule in Alaska, and her contract with the Washington Speakers Bureau forbade her to do any free event at a locale where another paid event was scheduled. Her frenetic schedule meant that Palin could commit only to making an in-person appearance at the 11th hour -- which, given the large crowds she tended to attract, would often prove impossible for a small campaign staff to throw together. ''She loves the retail stuff -- make some phone calls, go to a small event and shake hands,'' Davis told me. ''Retail is very difficult at this point.''
Idiosyncratic as her in-house endorsement operation may have been, Palin was not above wielding her influence in the manner of a seasoned politician. She rewarded allies (McCain, Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry, Carly Fiorina), punished a foe (Lisa Murkowski) by endorsing Joe Miller and gave the nod to a family friend (Vaughan Ward of Idaho). And in the early presidential-primary states, some of Palin's choices seemed conspicuously strategic. In June, for example, she endorsed Terry Branstad for governor of Iowa, who at that point had never met Palin, had not sought her imprimatur and didn't particularly need it, being 15 points ahead of his primary opponent, Bob Vander Plaats. Vander Plaats was far more conservative than Branstad but also an ally of the likely 2012 candidate Mike Huckabee. In the New Hampshire Senate race, Palin threw her support behind the establishment candidate Kelly Ayotte rather than a Tea Party favorite who tried to endear himself to Palin by sending her a photograph of himself alongside the carcass of a deer he had just shot. When I asked Andy Smith, the University of New Hampshire Survey Center's director and pollster, to explain why Palin had chosen Ayotte, he promptly answered: ''I think she wanted to back a winner. Like Branstad in Iowa. I think she wanted people who would be in positions to help her out.''
These actions bespeak a calculating shrewdness on Palin's part. But then what to make of her inactions? Three months after endorsing Branstad, Palin visited Iowa for the first time since 2008 to deliver a speech but then left without scheduling any other events. And since 2008, Palin has yet to travel to New Hampshire, having turned down a triumphalist Tea Party Express rally in Concord the evening before Election Day. In both cases, her aides told me, Palin was overscheduled. But since Sarah Palin is the keeper of her own itinerary, we are left to wonder whether these omissions suggest disorganization, lack of foresight, ambivalence, distrust of politicos or some combination of the above.
One evening in late October, I sat in the Anchorage apartment of Palin's onetime communications director Bill McAllister, watching old TV footage of his ex-boss during her campaign for governor in 2006. McAllister, a former reporter with the Anchorage NBC affiliate who worked for Palin in 2008 and 2009, wanted me to see with my own eyes the Sarah Palin he knew -- bright and easygoing, exceedingly popular with the local press -- before the national media had grossly mischaracterized her in a way he found ''frustrating and maddening.''
The Palin I watched on McAllister's DVD lived up to his billing. She cut a competent, reasoned, disciplined figure, not taking the bait when one of her opponents dismissed her during a debate as ''a bright smile.'' There was another characteristic that McAllister hadn't pointed out. In the footage, Palin declared, ''We deserve leaders that aren't just going to take a partisan approach.'' Bemoaning the ''gridlock down there in Juneau,'' Palin reminded Alaskans, ''I have good relationships with these legislators.'' An undisputed social conservative who backed a Constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, Palin nonetheless told an interviewer, ''I don't wear my faith on my sleeve.'' And she promised not to let her religious beliefs ''bleed into policy -- that is my commitment.''
This Sarah Palin began to recede from view in 2008 as she was thrust into the traditional running mate's role of partisan flamethrower. Nonetheless, while editing a speech she was about to give, the vice-presidential candidate crossed out a disparaging reference to liberals, telling an aide, ''We want liberals to vote for us, too.''
I brought up her past efforts at bipartisanship to Palin. ''I was so innocent and naive to believe that I would be able to govern for four years and if I ever moved on beyond the governorship I could carry that with me nationally,'' Palin said. ''And it was proven when John McCain chose me for the nomination for vice president; what it showed me about the left: they go home. It doesn't matter what you do. It was the left that came out attacking me. They showed me their hypocrisy; they showed me they weren't willing to work in a bipartisan way. I learned my lesson. Once bitten, twice shy. I will never trust that they are not hypocrites until they show me they're sincere.''
Since that time, Palin has gravitated to where the love is. On April 7 of this year, she spoke at a campaign rally in Minneapolis for Michele Bachmann. With a silver cross around her neck and a flag pin on her lapel, Palin spoke approvingly of those who are ''proudly clinging to your guns and religion.'' Condemning the recently passed health care legislation as ''socialized medicine'' that ''breaks the bank and really violates the U.S. Constitution,'' she applauded her party's stout opposition, declaring, ''What's wrong with being the party of 'No'?''
The cheering section directly behind Palin was packed with white conservative middle-aged women, a demographic that especially reveres her. Palin's relationship to women generally is more complicated. On the one hand, her appreciation of pioneers like Susan B. Anthony, Margaret Thatcher and Hillary Clinton is unambiguous. On the other, she tends to poll five or more points better among men, and feminists are loath to embrace her.
Palin is of course aware that her sex affords her an opportunity among a crowded, all-male Republican field for 2012. Her Minneapolis rally provided much of the content for her acclaimed ''mama grizzly'' call-to-arms Web ad released in June. In August, Palin posted a Facebook endorsement of seven women to coincide with the 90th anniversary of women's suffrage. Though several of her male endorsees also wound up defeating women, Palin has nonetheless emerged from the midterm cycle as America's most visible advocate of female candidates not named Murkowski.
Whether Palin has what it takes to close the Republican Party's longstanding gender gap is a question that has loomed since John McCain introduced her to the nation on Aug. 29, 2008. That same afternoon, McCain reached out to Geraldine Ferraro -- the first female vice-presidential candidate and a Hillary Clinton supporter -- and put her on the phone with his new running mate. The two traded brief, complimentary words. ''Every time a woman runs, women win,'' Ferraro told me a couple of days after Palin debated Joe Biden.
She felt reluctant to second-guess Palin's performance against Biden. As Walter Mondale's running mate, the three-term New York congresswoman possessed more experience with national issues than the Alaska governor -- and because of the differing schedules, she was afforded nearly eight weeks more prep time than Palin received. It also helped, Ferraro pointed out, that the Mondale campaign paired her with a young Georgetown professor named Madeleine Albright, who ''was attached to my hip from July 12 to the election.'' Nevertheless, Ferraro concluded in a lamenting tone, ''when you get down to the substance, it wasn't there.''
''Look, everyone has an opinion about Sarah Palin,'' her friend John Coale says. ''But suppose when she starts doing the debates during the primaries, she knocks it out of the park. That would cause an entirely different view of things, wouldn't it?''
Palin has taken steps to close the substance gap. As Davis put it to me, ''She works very hard to get things right, because she understands the margin for error -- and because it's the right thing to do.'' In Hong Kong 14 months ago, Palin delivered a dense world-affairs speech that she co-drafted with Randy Scheunemann and Rebecca Mansour. This past June in Norfolk, Va., Palin ripped Obama's ''enemy-centric'' foreign policy in a spicy but detailed address. (In that speech and elsewhere, she has cited the wisdom of Joe Lieberman -- though not on the matter of human-induced climate change, a concept she derides as a ''snow job'' and this ''global warming Goregate stuff.'' Lieberman told me, ''Well of course I disagree with her and have been disappointed by it.'' Lieberman also said: ''My impression is that she and Todd are the kind of people I'd like to have as my next-door neighbors. That's a separate question from whether she's capable of being president.'') Earlier this month, Palin gave a speech on monetary policy, criticizing the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, which, according to Mansour, was written entirely by Palin and herself. Every morning, Palin reads a briefing consisting of a few bullet points prepared by Davis and Mansour. (''I wouldn't make too much of it,'' Davis cautioned me. ''It's like [Politico's] Playbook, only without the birthdays. Sometimes I throw in a sports score.'') Her public remarks and Facebook posts have been increasingly littered with facts from biographies of Reagan, Thatcher and Lincoln that she has recently digested.
Palin became testy when I asked her about the books I heard she had been reading. ''I've been reading since I was a little girl,'' she snapped. ''And my mom is standing 15 feet away from me, and I should put her on the phone with you right now so she can tell you. That's what happens when you grow up in a house full of teachers -- you read; and I always have. Just because -- and,'' she continued, though in a less blistering tone, ''I don't want to come across sounding caustic or annoyed by this issue: because of one roll-of-the-eye answer to a question I gave, I'm still dealing with this,'' she said, referring to her interview with Katie Couric. ''There's nothing different today than there was in the last 43 years of my life since I first started reading. I continue to read all that I can get my hands on -- and reading biographies of, yes, Thatcher for instance, and of course Reagan and the John Adams letters, and I'm just thinking of a couple that are on my bedside, I go back to C.S. Lewis for inspiration, there's such a variety, because books have always been important in my life.'' She went on: ''I'm reading [the conservative radio host] Mark Levin's book; I'll get ahold of Glenn Beck's new book -- and now because I'm opening up,'' she finished warily, ''I'm afraid I'm going to get reporters saying, Oh, she only reads books by Glenn Beck.''
I explained to Palin that in my view, at least, this line of inquiry wasn't gratuitous -- that questions did in fact linger about her ''gravitas gap.'' Didn't she think, for example, that the Republican kingmakers who were now supposedly scheming to kneecap her were mainly just concerned about how voters viewed her? ''If that were the case, then they need to be courageous enough to put their names behind their criticisms,'' she said, referring to anonymous quotations attacking her. ''As I replied to Politico, these fellows want to be trusted to tend to our nation's economic woes? They want to be trusted to take on the likes of Ahmadinejad, but they won't take on a hockey mom from Wasilla? Until they do that, I dismiss them.''
But, I reiterated, didn't she believe that the Republican establishment's predominant worry was that she would lose to Obama? ''Then perhaps they should vent some of their paranoia toward all of the potential G.O.P. candidates,'' she said. ''Because obviously there's no guarantee that any one of us would win. But I do believe that much of this is a threat to their hierarchy, because I've never shied away from a battle and because I'll put principle before politics.''
In a sense, Palin views Beltway Republicans as she does the Obama administration: aloof, self-interested and vulnerable to the populist power that she believes she wields. ''They're in an isolated bubble -- Barack Obama mentioned that in his press conference, and I agree with him, he is isolated from what average Americans are talking about,'' she said, referring to the president's words after the midterm elections. ''But what he was meaning, of course, was that he's not in touch with average Americans. I am -- because that's who I am. That's who surrounds me, common-sense Americans who just want government on their side, not riding their backs. And I tweet to reach out to them.''
At the end of our talk, she made note of my Southern accent and urged me, ''Don't lose that.'' Then she went back to her world, somewhere in Alaska, where she was winding down the filming of her TV show -- where apparently Internet reception was sufficient for her to send out three more Twitter posts that afternoon, joining herself to the rest of America and then leaving it at that, for the moment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MM43)
WILL SHE OR WON'T SHE?: Palin said she was considering a run for the White House but that her discussions were still just within her family. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) (MM45)
OCT. 16, 2010: Anaheim, Calif. At a Republican National Committee fund-raiser with the chairman, Michael Steele, right.
OCT. 18, 2010: Reno, Nev. The Tea Party Express national tour began with devoted supporters on hand to see Palin.
OCT. 22, 2010: Phoenix With her son Trig during a surprise appearance at a Tea Party Express rally. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT: MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES
ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS.) (MM46)
OCT. 23, 2010: Orlando, Fla. A boisterous crowd greeted Palin as she took the stage at a G.O.P. fund-raiser.
OCT. 28, 2010: Anchorage Palin returned to her home state to offer a late push for Joe Miller's Senate campaign.
OCT. 30, 2010: Charleston, W.Va. With Ted Nugent, right, at a rally for John Raese, who would fall short in his bid for a Senate seat.
NOV. 2, 2010: New York On election night with her husband, Todd, as they exited the Fox studios. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT: JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES
JON HANCOCK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.) (MM47)
 Prize endorsement Palin's presence, or nonpresence, became the focal point of many midterm-election campaign rallies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (MM49) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); REALITY TELEVISION (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); KARL ROVE (79%); MICHAEL STEELE (59%); JOE MANCHIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (85%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (59%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



764 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Slick On Slick

 BODY:
As a practicing trial lawyer, I was offended by Douglas McCollam's article, which appears to define ''trial lawyers'' to be those who, like Tony Buzbee, actively seek to represent victims of mass or even individual disasters. While there are many such lawyers, there are at least as many trial lawyers who earn their livelihood prosecuting and defending business and personal disputes in the highest tradition of the bar. This is a much higher and more-noble end of the profession than readers would understand from McCollam's description. Our legal system is unsurpassed (except possibly by Britain's), and that is because, in no small part, of the skill and dedication of thousands of trial lawyers, who should not be tarred by the same brush as those depicted by McCollam.
DONALD L. KREINDLER Phillips Nizer L.L.P., New York 
Reading McCollam's article, you might assume that the BP settlement fund is the first attempt by a defendant or responsible parties, and their insurers, to confront a disaster head on by establishing an early settlement fund and attacking the need for unnecessarily high contingent fees to achieve the resolution of legitimate claims. Thirty-three years ago, after the Pan American/KLM air disaster on Tenerife in the Canary Islands, Pan Am's insurers created a settlement fund within 30 days. Within 28 months, all claims were settled or tried; no liability depositions were taken; and the average plaintiff's lawyer's fee was less than 10 percent. As Pan Am's lead lawyer, I took on the plaintiffs' bar directly in every court in which litigation was filed, received the permission of the California Bar to directly contact relatives and claimants (suggesting that large contingency fees were unnecessary), fought off the plaintiffs' bar's attempts to thwart my efforts, made early and reasonable settlement offers and managed eight trials where verdicts were equal to, or within 10 percent of, the settlement offers.
All too often this approach is not followed because of the large fees that can be earned through protracted litigation by plaintiffs' and defendants' counsels alike. In the BP case, there is no reason that the defendants can't collectively plead no contest to liability and let the multidistrict-litigation judge begin trying damages within a few months. The corporate defendants would be wise to corral their outside counsel and save their internecine squabbles over liability (that will only substantially increase the total cost) until after most, if not all, of the legitimate claims are resolved. Robert Ward of the Southern District of New York oversaw the Tenerife litigation and proved that a concerned and active judge can bring complicated litigation to a conclusion without exacerbating the costs and trauma to the victims.
ROBERT L. ALPERT President, Icalm Group Chapel Hill, N.C.
The ''new model'' of supercompensation funds like the one Ken Feinberg is administering for the BP disaster would not exist but for the existence of a robust civil-justice system. BP voluntarily agreed to participate in the compensation fund only because of the threat that it would otherwise be subject to full accountability in our nation's courthouses by trial lawyers' fighting for their clients.
Whether pursuing claims with the fund or in the courts, trial lawyers will continue doing what we will always do -- seek justice for workers, families and small businesses that have been needlessly harmed by big corporations that put profits before the health, safety and livelihoods of everyday Americans. Is it any wonder the Chamber of Commerce wants to take out the last line of defense?
NICHOLAS I. TIMKO President, New York State Trial Lawyers Association New York
The rapacious members of the plaintiffs' bar have caused huge economic damage to this country. They have damaged our national spirit even more by promoting the absurd and corrosive falsehood that every misfortune is someone else's fault. I will shed few tears if predatory charlatans like Tony Buzbee find themselves unable to cash in on the oil spill.
RICHARD WILLIAMS Wenatchee, Wash.
E-MAIL: letters to magazine@nytimes .com. All letters should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number. We are unable to acknowledge or return unpublished letters. Letters may be edited for length and clarity. The address of The New York Times Magazine is 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN WINTERS) GRAPHIC: MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''SLICK ON SLICK,'' BY DOUGLAS McCOLLAM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (94%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (51%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); PHILLIPS NIZER LLP (83%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (74%); SPAIN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



765 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: The Blur Between Spending And Taxes

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard.

 BODY:
SHOULD the government cut spending or raise taxes to deal with its long-term fiscal imbalance? As President Obama's deficit commission rolls out its final report in the coming weeks, this issue will most likely divide the political right and left. But, in many ways, the question is the wrong one. The distinction between spending and taxation is often murky and sometimes meaningless.
Imagine that there is some activity -- say, snipe hunting -- that members of Congress want to encourage. Senator Porkbelly proposes a government subsidy. ''America needs more snipe hunters,'' he says. ''I propose that every time an American bags a snipe, the federal government should pay him or her $100.'' 
''No, no,'' says Congressman Blowhard. ''The Porkbelly plan would increase the size of an already bloated government. Let's instead reduce the burden of taxation. I propose that every time an American tracks down a snipe, the hunter should get a $100 credit to reduce his or her tax liabilities.''
To be sure, government accountants may treat the Porkbelly and Blowhard plans differently. They would likely deem the subsidy to be a spending increase and the credit to be a tax cut. Moreover, the rhetoric of the two politicians about spending and taxes may appeal to different political bases.
But it hardly takes an economic genius to see how little difference there is between the two plans. Both policies enrich the nation's snipe hunters. And because the government must balance its books, at least in the long run, the gains of the snipe hunters must come at the cost of higher taxes or lower government benefits for the rest of us.
Economists call the Blowhard plan a ''tax expenditure.'' The tax code is filled with them -- although not yet one for snipe hunting. Every time a politician promises a ''targeted tax cut,'' he or she is probably offering up a form of government spending in disguise.
Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson, the chairmen of President Obama's deficit reduction commission, have taken at hard look at these tax expenditures -- and they don't like what they see. In their draft proposal, released earlier this month, they proposed doing away with tax expenditures, which together cost the Treasury over $1 trillion a year.
Such a drastic step would allow Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson to move the budget toward fiscal sustainability, while simultaneously reducing all income tax rates. Under their plan, the top tax rate would fall to 23 percent from the 35 percent in today's law (and the 39.6 percent currently advocated by Democratic leadership).
This approach has long been the basic recipe for tax reform. By broadening the tax base and lowering tax rates, we can increase government revenue and distort incentives less. That should command widespread applause across the ideological spectrum. Unfortunately, the reaction has been less enthusiastic.
Pundits on the left are suspicious of any plan that reduces marginal tax rates on the rich. But, as Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson point out, tax expenditures disproportionately benefit those at the top of the economic ladder. According to their figures, tax expenditures increase the after-tax income of those in the bottom quintile by about 6 percent. Those in the top 1 percent of the income distribution enjoy about twice that gain. Progressives who are concerned about the gap between rich and poor should be eager to scale back tax expenditures.
Pundits on the right, meanwhile, are suspicious of anything that increases government revenue. But they should recognize that tax expenditures are best viewed as a hidden form of spending. If we eliminate tax expenditures and reduce marginal tax rates, as Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson propose, we are essentially doing what economic conservatives have long advocated: cutting spending and taxes.
Yet another political problem is that each tax expenditure has its own political constituency. If Congressman Blowhard ever got his way, the snipe hunters of the world would surely fight to keep their tax break.
One major tax expenditure that the Bowles-Simpson plan would curtail or eliminate is the mortgage interest deduction. Without doubt, many homeowners and the real estate industry will object. But they won't have the merits on their side.
This subsidy to homeownership is neither economically efficient nor particularly equitable. Economists have long pointed out that tax subsidies to housing, together with the high taxes on corporations, cause too much of the economy's capital stock to be tied up in residential structures and too little in corporate capital. This misallocation of resources results in lower productivity and reduced real wages.
Moreover, there is nothing particularly ignoble about renting that deserves the scorn of the tax code. But let's face it: subsidizing homeowners is the same as penalizing renters. In the end, someone has to pick up the tab.
THERE are certain tax expenditures that I like. My personal favorite is the deduction for charitable giving. It encourages philanthropy and, thus, private rather than governmental solutions to society's problems.
But I know that solving the long-term fiscal problem won't be easy. Everyone will have to give a little, and perhaps even more than a little. I am willing to give up my favorite tax expenditure if everyone else is willing to give up theirs.
The Bowles-Simpson proposal is not perfect, but it is far better than the status quo. The question ahead is whether we can get Senator Porkbelly and Congressman Blowhard to agree.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); INCOME TAX (65%); ACCOUNTING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



766 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Carol Moseley Braun, a Former Senator, Joins the Race for Chicago Mayor

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
CHICAGO (AP) -- Former Senator Carol Moseley Braun entered the race for Chicago mayor on Saturday by reintroducing herself to voters, some of whom were not born when she last won election in 1992.
Ms. Braun, who runs an organic food company, was the last of six major candidates to formally declare her candidacy to replace Mayor Richard M. Daley, who has presided over the city for more than 20 years but announced in September that he was retiring and would not seek a seventh term.
Ms. Braun joins a crowded field that includes the former White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel. 
''While the city has many challenges: creating jobs, balancing our budget, fixing our schools, protecting our seniors and our children and making our government more accountable to the people, I stand before you today in the fervent belief that there is no city in this country better positioned for progress and opportunity for all its citizens than Chicago,'' Ms. Braun told more than 100 supporters at an outdoor rally on Chicago's lakefront, with the skyline as her backdrop.
Ms. Braun, 63, made history in 1992, when she became the first black woman elected to the United States Senate. She lost a re-election bid in 1998 and was later named ambassador to New Zealand. She also ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination for president in 2004.
Before winning the 1992 race for the Senate seat that Barack Obama later went on to hold, Ms. Braun served as an Illinois state lawmaker and as a Cook County government official.
In the mayor's race, Ms. Braun will most likely have to address some past miscues that raised questions about her judgment, including a highly criticized visit with a brutal Nigerian dictator when she was a senator and never-proved accusations about misused campaign money.
Ms. Braun is apparently counting on her business experience running a small company that specializes in coffee, tea and spices to be a plus with voters. She said that she has had to work hard to weather the recession, which has battered businesses, both big and small.
In her effort at a political comeback, Ms. Braun has the backing of Representative Bobby L. Rush, who said he was friends with Mr. Emanuel as well as with the two other major black candidates in the race, State Senator James T. Meeks and Representative Danny K. Davis. In fact, Mr. Rush said that he ''loved'' Mr. Davis.
''But you know what? This election is not about friendship, it's about leadership,'' Mr. Rush bellowed into a microphone.
A group of black leaders tried to prevent the splitting of black votes in the Feb. 22 mayor's election by picking Mr. Davis as their preferred candidate over other finalists, including Mr. Meeks and Ms. Braun.
Ms. Braun singled out Mr. Emanuel during her announcement, taking him to task over a TV commercial that says people must decide whether Chicago will become a ''second-tier'' city. She said that Chicago cannot be great just for people who live in the ''right neighborhoods.''
''Let me tell you something about us: Chicago will always be a great city because its people will tolerate nothing less,'' Ms. Braun said.
Other major declared candidates in the race for mayor are the Chicago city clerk, Miguel del Valle, and a former city school board president, Gery Chico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); COUNTIES (73%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (57%); FOOD INDUSTRY (57%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (54%)

PERSON: BOBBY L RUSH (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (77%); DANNY K DAVIS (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



767 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: What We Must Do for Iraq Now

BYLINE: By JOSEPH R. BIDEN Jr.. 
Joseph R. Biden Jr. is the vice president of the United States.

 BODY:
Washington
EIGHT days ago, Iraqi political leaders agreed on a framework for a new government to guide their country through the crucial coming years. Since the elections there in March, our administration has said that the Iraqi people deserve a government that reflects the results of those elections, that includes all the major blocs representing Iraq's various communities and that does not exclude or marginalize anyone. That is what they will now have.
While President Obama and I -- and an outstanding team of American officials in Washington and Baghdad -- played an active role in supporting this effort, the most important steps were taken in Iraq, by the leaders of Iraq's largest political parties. Their accomplishment is the latest and strongest evidence of a key development in Iraq: over the past two years, politics has emerged as the dominant means for settling differences and advancing interests. 
Time and time again in recent months, Iraqi leaders have painstakingly worked through thorny issues -- including disputes over who is eligible to run for office or serve in government, challenges to the election results and power-sharing arrangements -- without resorting to violence. It hasn't always been pretty, but politics rarely is, in Iraq, in America or anywhere else. By agreeing to form a national partnership government, however, Iraqi leaders have sent an unmistakable message to their fellow citizens, their region and the world: after more than seven years of war and decades of dictatorship, Iraqis seek a nation where the rights of all citizens are recognized and the talents of all are harnessed to unlock the country's full potential.
In a country that still faces enormous challenges on the road to security and prosperity, that goal has never been more essential. The next step is for the leaders of Iraq's new government to honor their landmark commitment to share power -- a pledge embodied in the new National Council for Higher Policies, whose responsibilities and authority are still being determined but will eventually be enshrined into law.
The United States must also continue to do its part to reinforce Iraq's progress. That is why we are not disengaging from Iraq -- rather, the nature of our engagement is changing from a military to a civilian lead.
Since taking office, the Obama administration has withdrawn nearly 100,000 troops from Iraq and ended our combat operations. The 50,000 troops who will remain until the end of 2011 have a new mission: to advise and assist their Iraqi counterparts, protect our personnel and property and participate in counterterrorist operations. Meanwhile, we are establishing a diplomatic presence throughout the country and, under the terms of our Strategic Framework Agreement, building a dynamic partnership across a range of government sectors, including education, energy, trade, health, culture, information technology, law enforcement and the judiciary.
In a country where extremists remain bent on sowing chaos, and where innocent civilians still suffer unspeakable hardship, the transition to a safer society depends on the continued development of Iraq's security forces, now more than 650,000 strong.
Over the six visits I have made to Iraq since January 2009, I have seen the remarkable progress its police and soldiers have made. Iraq today is far safer and more stable than at any time since the outbreak of war in 2003. More than a year ago, Iraqi forces took charge of security in major cities, and last August, when the American combat mission ended, they assumed primary responsibility nationwide. In recent months, using their own intelligence, Iraqi forces have killed or captured dozens of senior leaders of Al Qaeda in Iraq and other terrorist groups. The weekly tally of violent incidents throughout Iraq has dropped to about 160, from nearly 1,600 in 2007.
Nevertheless, Iraq's security forces are not yet ready to operate fully on their own, and we must continue to support them. We must also help Iraq's leaders with a range of challenges that lie ahead: conducting a census; further integrating Kurdish security forces into the Iraqi security forces; maintaining commitments to the Sons of Iraq, the Sunni groups that banded together against insurgents; resolving disputed internal boundaries and the future of the northern city of Kirkuk, which is claimed by both Arabs and Kurds; passing a hydrocarbon law that would distribute oil revenues and maximize the benefit to all Iraqis; stabilizing the economy through foreign investment, private sector development and new sources of revenue beyond oil; passing a fiscally responsible budget; and bringing to a close its post-Gulf war obligations to the United Nations.
While the day will come when Iraq's vast natural wealth can fully finance its security and investment needs, and when its civilian institutions no longer require such intensive support, it has not yet arrived. Iraq has increased its own spending in these areas, and with sustained American engagement, it will emerge from generations of trauma to become a stable and self-reliant nation.
That is why, even at this difficult economic time, we are asking Congress to fulfill our budget requests to support America's continued engagement, including our broader diplomatic presence, a modernization plan for the Iraqi security forces and financing for a police development program. The drawdown of American troops will save $15 billion in the coming fiscal year -- we seek to direct less than one-third of that amount to provide needed assistance to Iraq's security forces and to our State Department's civilian-led efforts.
The Iraq war has cost our nation dearly, with the greatest price of all paid by the 4,430 heroes who have made the ultimate sacrifice. Now it is in America's fundamental interest to help preserve the gains Iraq has made, prevent the re-emergence of violent extremists and encourage Iraq to become a pivotal American ally in a strategically critical region, and a responsible regional actor in its own right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (66%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



768 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: City Wants America's Cup, but Analyst Warns About Costs

BYLINE: By JOHN UPTON. 
jupton@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
For at least 43 days, Mayor Gavin Newsom proposes to turn San Francisco Bay into an arena for the America's Cup, the world's most prestigious yacht race. The water would be cleared of unauthorized boats and a no-fly zone imposed 6,000 feet above the Golden Gate Bridge, Fisherman's Wharf and Angel Island.
Organizers estimate that as many as 600,000 spectators would crowd the shoreline and other parts of the city to watch the final race in the summer of 2013, the culmination of an event that they say could pump at least $1 billion into the area's economy.
But Mr. Newsom's proposal to make San Francisco the seventh host city in the 159-year history of the America's Cup is creating tension between the mayor and the city's chief budget analyst, who has raised questions about what some view as an extravagant incentive package from a city facing a $712 million deficit. 
Although the mayor's office initially said San Francisco needed to offer a rich deal to win out over bidders in Spain and Italy, the analyst, Harvey Rose, said recently that he had been unable to confirm that another city was competing with San Francisco to host the regatta.
On Thursday, Mr. Rose released an economic impact report estimating that the America's Cup would cost San Francisco at least $128.3 million, with expenditures vastly exceeding tax revenue. He said the costs would include an $86.2 million loss from granting development rights and free leases on waterfront property to the Cup organizers, led by Larry Ellison, the billionaire Oracle chief executive.
''I think it is interesting that we would be spending city funds at the same time that departments are getting their budgets cut,'' Mr. Rose said in an interview.
But aides to Mr. Newsom, who was elected lieutenant governor this month and will leave office in January, said the costs of staging the regatta would be offset by a windfall of economic activity and improved infrastructure on San Francisco's waterfront.
''We strongly feel that the costs that are associated with this event are investments -- they are not giveaways,'' said Jennifer Matz, the mayor's economic development director. ''We will continue to ensure that this deal is a good one for the city and the residents and the visitors that come here.''
Mr. Newsom's economic development advisers led negotiations for the proposed agreement with Mr. Ellison's BMW Oracle Racing team, which is sponsored by the Golden Gate Yacht Club of San Francisco. Mr. Ellison earned the right to select the host city in February when he captured the America's Cup off the coast of Valencia, Spain. Mr. Ellison, who also sets the tournament rules, envisions a new format for the 34th America's Cup that is designed to increase profits, bring in more advertising and corporate sponsors, reduce costs for entrants and entice younger viewers.
Under the new format, preliminary races would be held in ports around the world in 2011 and 2012. San Francisco's proposal commits Mr. Ellison to hold 43 days of racing on the bay, regardless of whether other ports are used for pre-regattas, said Tom Ehman, a spokesman for the BMW Oracle Racing team.
The traditional challenger and defender series and the final Cup race would be held on San Francisco Bay in the summer of 2013, Mr. Ehman said.
Mr. Ehman said that the cost estimates in the budget analyst's report show that a San Francisco America's Cup would involve a ''minimal'' public outlay.
The Board of Supervisors is being asked to approve the agreement quickly. Mr. Ellison's team plans to announce the host city by Dec. 31.
Ross Mirkarimi, a progressive member of the board who has been working closely on the agreement, said he was not deterred by the recent budget analysis. Mr. Mirkarimi said many of the issues would be taken up Dec. 1 at a meeting of the board's Budget and Finance Committee.
''The mayor's office and Cup organizers have to answer the hard feasibility questions at our hearing on Dec. 1 or else this will be all for naught,'' he said. ''In tight times, the dividend of hosting the Cup will be weighted against real needs, from tackling potholes to poverty.''
''I believe we can put together a creative deal that lifts all boats,'' Mr. Mirkarimi said.
Under the proposal, San Francisco is offering Mr. Ellison's team long-term development rights on three piers. It is also offering to turn over a parcel of undeveloped waterfront property that is zoned for a 10-story condominium. The Port of San Francisco values that parcel at $33 million.
In exchange, Mr. Ellison would spend $150 million to build breakwaters and to repair infrastructure at two conjoined piers, 30 and 32. The money would also go toward similar work at Pier 50.
The piers would be used as viewing areas or as an operations center. Mr. Ellison would be granted 66-year leases, during which he could develop the piers.
The primary opposition to the proposal has come from Supervisor Chris Daly, who has described the bid as a public giveaway to one of the richest men in the world.
''The Board of Supervisors and the mayor are facing another very challenging budget, possibly with even more limited ability to raise revenues,'' said Mr. Daly, who is leaving office. ''Health and human services and community programs are going to be slashed in the budget, and when you look at the budget analyst's report, it confirms my earlier suspicions, which is that the Cup is going to cost the city significant sums of money. We just can't afford it.''
According to the report, taxpayers would pay $64 million for traffic control, construction, security and other costs related to the America's Cup. Those expenditures are expected to be partly recovered through $22 million in revenue generated by additional hotel, payroll, sales and parking taxes.
The city would relinquish $86 million more in revenue from property development opportunities than it would recover through Mr. Ellison's $150 million investment in aging waterfront infrastructure, the report states. Bond sales that might be needed to finance the deal could add up to $14 million in additional costs.
Mr. Newsom's advisers said the report dismisses the public value of work needed to restore rotting piers and disregarded $32 million the city plans to raise from the private sector.
With the debate over the cost of hosting the America's Cup heating up, the city is exploring a less expensive alternative that would shift the main viewing areas to San Francisco's northern waterfront after the deal is approved.
The alternative plan would place the new viewing areas at Piers 27 and 29, at the base of Telegraph Hill, and could eliminate the need to overhaul Pier 50, which might no longer be used.
It is unclear where the regatta would be held if San Francisco were unable to reach an agreement.
Officials in Valencia have indicated that the city is not in the running. Term sheets prepared by the Italian government indicate that it is prepared to offer tax breaks, assistance with visas and other government support, but no official Italian bid has been identified.
By the time he released his report Thursday, Mr. Rose said he had still been unable to identify a competing city.
''We simply have not been able to verify that there are other bidders out there,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: More than a half-million spectators could gather in San Francisco to watch the America's Cup, if the city submits a successful bid for the prestigious regatta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN)
 Larry Ellison, the billionaire Oracle chief executive, right, won the last America's Cup and will decide on its next site and rules. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAIME REINA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (68%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



769 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: A 2012 Forecast That Obama Can Love

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THINGS are looking up for Barack Obama.
You might not think so, given the flow of news lately. His foreign policy has met with limited success, at best. And, back home, unemployment is mired at 9.6 percent. Earlier this month, in a major political blow, Democrats lost more than 60 seats and control of the House of Representatives.
So what is there for Mr. Obama and his supporters to cheer about? 
Try this: Based on the facts at hand right now, Mr. Obama is likely to win the 2012 election in a landslide. That, at least, is the prediction of Ray C. Fair, a Yale economist and an expert on econometrics and on the relationship of economics and politics.
What's the basis of this forecast? In a nutshell: ''It's the economy, stupid.''
That's the smart-alecky slogan that James Carville, the Democratic strategist, used to focus the 1992 presidential election campaign and propel Bill Clinton to victory. But after many years of study, Professor Fair has found that it embodies a certain truth: The state of the economy -- which includes the wealth effect produced by rising and falling asset prices -- has a dominant influence on national elections.
In recent columns, I've explored how elections -- and Wall Street's beliefs about them -- affect the markets and the economy. Professor Fair has studied the flip side: how the economy helps to determine elections.
While updating his 2002 book, ''Predicting Presidential Elections and Other Things,'' he has calculated his first prediction for the next national election and posted it on his Yale Web site. He says the likely outcome is an Obama victory, regardless of whom he runs against. ''If my model's right, it couldn't look better for Obama,'' he said.
Still, this is hardly a rock-solid judgment. ''I don't want to push this too hard,'' said Mr. Fair, 68, a veteran marathoner who has also used statistical techniques to gauge the effects of aging on runners. But there is considerable data behind his election prediction, using his econometric models. One produces a forecast for the overall, or macro, economy, while another uses economic inputs to forecast the national popular vote. At the moment, he says, the data augurs well for the president.
''The model certainly suggests that if the economy is good and improving as an election approaches, it's very difficult to defeat an incumbent president,'' he said. At the root of his conclusion is an economic forecast: he expects a significant improvement in the American economy by 2012.
While growth is relatively weak today, prices in financial markets -- even if not the housing market -- have already rebounded from their levels at the nadir of the financial crisis. Assuming relative stability over the next year or two, the effect of those rebounds -- which ought to induce consumers and businesses to spend and invest more -- should be feeding into the overall economy, he said.
Another important factor in his forecast, he said, is the assumption that ''stimulative fiscal and monetary policies will continue.''
The first condition, stimulative monetary policy, is clearly in place. The Federal Reserve has said that it will keep short-term interest rates at their current near-zero level for an extended period. And, this month, the Fed embarked on a second bout of quantitative easing, or QE2 -- large-scale purchases of longer-term Treasuries and perhaps other instruments, aimed at loosening monetary policy even further. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has confirmed that the central bank's policies are partly aimed at keeping asset prices high.
What about fiscal policy? Barring another major economic crisis, the Republican election victory might seem to have ruled out another large fiscal stimulus. But Republicans are pushing hard to extend all the Bush-era tax cuts, not just those for lower- and middle-income taxpayers. If they get their way, Professor Fair said, a result may be a short-term budget deficit well above $1 trillion.
''That amounts to a highly stimulative fiscal policy,'' he said.
His presidential prediction doesn't depend on the accuracy of his own macroeconomic projections, which, he says, ''look quite optimistic compared to the consensus right now.''
His model forecasts real annualized growth in gross domestic product of 3.69 percent for the first three quarters of 2012. A survey of leading economists by Blue Chip Economic Indicators shows an average forecast of 3.2 percent growth in real G.D.P. in 2012, while the Congressional Budget Office estimates 3.4 percent. Plug either of these estimates into his election algorithm and the result is the same: President Obama wins.
In the quarter that just ended, however, the economy was growing at a rate of just 2 percent. If that sluggish pace continued -- or, more ominously, if there were a double-dip recession or a steep plunge in the markets -- that forecast would change.
Under those circumstances, regardless of other issues or the identity of President Obama's opponent, the model shows the president losing.
And there's another problem. Professor Fair makes no claim to being able to predict ''exogenous events,'' like a financial crisis -- he didn't predict the 2008 crisis, for example -- or a major war or an oil shock, which could radically change the landscape.
EVEN if the data for 2012 were somehow perfectly clear, the presidential prediction model is imperfect. The economy certainly has enormous sway over elections, but as Professor Fair has indicated in a series of academic papers, the model's statistical accuracy is limited.
It has, however, done a very good job of predicting recent results. In November 2006, for example, long before the 2008 candidates had been chosen or the campaign issues had been clearly formed, Professor Fair ran the numbers for 2008. His prediction? A weak economy, and a Democratic landslide.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1992, James Carville, left, used the line ''It's the economy, stupid'' to aid Bill Clinton. Can it lift President Obama, too? (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER TIERY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Ray C. Fair, the Yale professor (and a marathoner), sees better economic conditions in the next two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, 2003) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); MODELING & SIMULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (72%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



770 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: NORTH KOREANS UNVEIL NEW PLANT FOR NUCLEAR USE

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; William J. Broad contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- North Korea showed a visiting American nuclear scientist earlier this month a vast new facility it secretly and rapidly built to enrich uranium, confronting the Obama administration with the prospect that the country is preparing to expand its nuclear arsenal or build a far more powerful type of atomic bomb.
Whether the calculated revelation is a negotiating ploy by North Korea or a signal that it plans to accelerate its weapons program even as it goes through a perilous leadership change, it creates a new challenge for President Obama at a moment when his program for gradual, global nuclear disarmament appears imperiled at home and abroad. The administration hurriedly began to brief allies and lawmakers on Friday and Saturday -- and braced for an international debate over the repercussions.
The scientist, Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford professor who previously directed the Los Alamos National Laboratory, said in an interview that he had been ''stunned'' by the sophistication of the new plant, where he saw ''hundreds and hundreds'' of centrifuges that had just been installed in a recently gutted building that had housed an aging fuel fabrication center, and that were operated from what he called ''an ultra-modern control room.'' The North Koreans claimed 2,000 centrifuges were already installed and running, he said. 
American officials know that the plant did not exist in April 2009, when the last Americans and international inspectors were thrown out of the country. The speed with which it was built strongly suggests that the impoverished, isolated country, which tested its first nuclear device in 2006, had foreign help and evaded strict new United Nations Security Council sanctions imposed to punish its rejection of international controls.
A delegation of American experts that included Dr. Hecker has already reported that it confirmed satellite photographic evidence of another new advance by the North -- a light-water reactor being built on the site of a facility the country had dismantled as part of an agreement with the international community to end its nuclear weapons program.
Dr. Hecker did not initially mention the surprising discovery of the uranium enrichment operation as he left North Korea. He privately informed the White House a few days ago.
The White House is clearly eager to use the new information to show that North Korea, in violation of United Nations mandates, continues to make significant progress toward advancing its nuclear program, even though it remains under international sanctions for its past violations.
American officials were sent to China, Japan, Russia and South Korea, the other members in the moribund ''six-party talks.'' The Obama administration also hopes to persuade China, by far North Korea's most important source of political and economic support, to put more pressure on the government of Kim Jong-il, which has shown signs of becoming more militaristic as it undergoes a leadership transition.
China has been hesitant to cut off trade or fuel to the North, and it appears determined to support its longtime, if difficult, ally during its succession process. But in the past China has taken modest steps to support a tougher line when North Korea has tested nuclear weapons or missiles, defying international commitments.
Dr. Hecker said he was forbidden from taking pictures during his tour of the uranium plant on Nov. 12, and was not allowed to verify North Korean claims that it was already beginning to produce low-enriched uranium. He also said he had doubts that North Korea would fulfill its promise to build a light-water reactor to utilize the fuel. ''There are reasons to question whether that's true,'' he said.
There are two routes to a nuclear weapon: obtaining plutonium from the spent fuel produced by a nuclear reactor, and enriching uranium to weapons grade.
Since the 1950s, North Korea pursued the first path, and its arsenal of weapons was manufactured from fuel harvested from a small nuclear reactor at Yongbyon. That produced enough for roughly a dozen weapons, but the facility was decrepit, and under an agreement with the Bush administration it was shut down in 2008, with television cameras running as its cooling tower was blown up.
But meanwhile, the North was already well down the second path, uranium enrichment, much the way Iran has pursued its nuclear program. Like Iran, North Korea insists the fuel is intended for a yet-to-be-built experimental reactor to make electricity.
American officials, though, say they think the intent of the enrichment program is to make weapons fuel. Since the North has blocked international inspections, it may be impossible to monitor how much fuel it has made, or if it could be used to produce or improve atomic bombs.
For roughly 15 years, American intelligence agencies have reported evidence the North was seeking to enrich uranium, largely based on technology it bought from A. Q. Khan, the rogue Pakistani nuclear dealer, in a transaction that dates from 1996. There were later reports of North Korean efforts to buy critical centrifuge components, and a suspicious shipment of uranium hexafluoride to Libya that appeared to be of North Korean origin. The Bush administration accused the North in 2002 of secretly pursuing the technology, leading to the ouster of inspectors.
In interviews, administration officials said that they were watching the area by satellite where Dr. Hecker saw the new facility, but they would not say whether they knew about it before he reported back.
''The intel agencies dropped the ball,'' said Jack Pritchard, a former State Department official who visited North Korea's main nuclear complex, Yongbyon, a week before Dr. Hecker's visit and heard North Korean boasts of a new capability.
A senior intelligence official said Saturday evening that ''it is wrong for anyone to assert that U.S. intelligence agencies somehow missed the boat,'' adding, ''We have been aware of North Korean uranium enrichment activities for years.''
A senior administration official said the North Koreans ''very probably have other facilities'' that pre-dated the one at Yongbyon and have not been detected.
In interviews, administration officials said they did not want to talk about possible responses to the North Korean action. But their options are limited. North Korea is already a de facto nuclear state; it conducted its first nuclear test in 2006 and another shortly after President Obama took office. Sanctions have crippled some of the country's ability to do business, but clearly they have not forced it to give up its nuclear ambitions.
Military attacks on Yongbyon have been all but ruled out. In interviews over the past two days, administration officials have described several possible motives for the North to build the facility, and to boast about it.
The most obvious is to create a new bargaining chip to try to force Mr. Obama to pay off the country. ''It's typical of North Korea, to see if we will reward them'' for suspending operations or dismantling the facility, said one senior administration official.
But there are other possible explanations. Just as the North used the sinking of a South Korean warship this year to build the credentials of its leader-in-waiting, Kim Jong-un, the son of the current leader and grandson of the country's founder, this effort could be designed to show that the North must be accepted as a nuclear state along with the major nuclear powers and Pakistan, India and Israel.
Administration officials said they had no intention of reopening negotiations with the North unless it ''demonstrated a seriousness of purpose and constructive action'' to live up to its past promises to dismantle its nuclear facilities.
Another possibility, which administration officials declined to discuss, is that the North ultimately intends to build a new generation of hydrogen bombs or thermonuclear weapons, far more powerful than anything in its current arsenal.
The North's current arsenal of 8 to 12 weapons are all based on plutonium. But uranium, enriched to bomb grade, can also be used to drastically increase the destructive power of a nuclear blast, and that is the main use of uranium in modern arsenals, including United States warheads.
Experts caution, however, that true hydrogen bombs are quite hard to make, so it seems unlikely that North Korea would succeed in that anytime soon.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions last Sunday about a new uranium-enrichment plant in North Korea misstated the year that the Bush administration accused North Korean officials, in private talks, of secretly pursuing the technology that would allow the enrichment. It was 2002, not 2003. (The administration had decided by mid-October 2002 to withdraw from a 1994 nuclear arms accord with Pyongyang.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Siegfried S. Hecker viewed a North Korean uranium facility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CENTRIFUGES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010



771 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3108 words

HEADLINE: Pushing 40, But Still Playing The Rebel

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Dallas
IT'S halftime at Southwest Airlines' annual Halloween party -- a ritual meant to celebrate the carrier's exuberant employees and freewheeling culture -- and Gary Kelly is feeling a bit wistful.
''I was determined to be a man this year,'' he says.
Gone is the flamboyance of his previous costumes. He has attended as Edna Turnblad from the musical ''Hairspray'' (for which he had to shave his legs, don a wig and wear a pink dress) and as Dorothy from the ''The Wizard of Oz.'' In one particularly memorable impersonation, he was Gene Simmons of the hard-rock band Kiss.
This year, Mr. Kelly, who also happens to be Southwest's chairman and chief executive, is dressed as Woody, the friendly pull-string doll from ''Toy Story.'' 
''As long as you don't mind being ridiculed all day,'' he says of his Halloween outfits, ''it's part of the routine.''
Nearby, Mike Van de Ven, the chief operating officer, is rolling on the floor, posing for pictures, and greeting children and parents with a wide grin in his Buzz Lightyear costume. ''This shows you how little we have to do to run the airline,'' says Mr. Van de Ven. ''The less we do, the better it runs.''
Southwest doesn't quite fly on auto-pilot, but as it prepares for its 40th birthday next year, it is flush with success. Last year, it flew 86 million passengers, more than any other airline within the United States. It operates 3,200 flights a day, owns a fleet of 544 planes and serves 69 domestic cities from Seattle to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and from Lubbock, Tex., to Buffalo.
When rival airlines were bleeding billions of dollars, Southwest was churning out consistent profits as a low-cost carrier -- even when fuel prices soared.
And in September, in its boldest corporate move since it started flying outside of Texas, Southwest announced that it would buy AirTran Airways for $1.4 billion, increasing both its revenue and its capacity by nearly 25 percent in a single stroke.
Yet Southwest finds itself at a pivotal moment. Its success was built on a signature cocktail of low costs, low fares, frequent flights and a rapid expansion into new cities. But with high fuel prices, growth has been harder to find, and analysts have questioned whether the airline can sustain its singular operating style.
Battered in part by Southwest's growth, traditional airlines have restructured their operations over the last decade -- often through painful bankruptcy proceedings -- and have narrowed the gap.
Through mergers and global alliances, Delta Air Lines, which acquired Northwest in 2008, and the more recently merged United Airlines and Continental are now more formidable rivals. They can offer their passengers access to cities across the United States along with connections to the four corners of the world -- something Southwest cannot do.
Newer rivals, meanwhile, often modeled after Southwest, are thriving at the other end of the spectrum. Thanks to efficient operations, lower costs and an attention to customer service, these carriers -- such as JetBlue Airways and Allegiant Airlines -- are threatening Southwest's dominance in the low-fare trade.
''Southwest's business has become more complicated than the simple model that served them so well for 39 years,'' says William S. Swelbar, a research engineer at the International Center for Air Transportation at M.I.T. ''They are at an inflection point. They are not a young and nimble corporation anymore. This is now a mature company.''
No longer the fiery start-up, Southwest now has the best-paid pilots, mechanics and flight attendants in the industry. Its unit labor cost -- how much it pays its employees to fly one seat for one mile -- rose 22 percent from 2002 to 2009, while the same measure dropped 34 percent at United, 7 percent at Continental, 26 percent at Delta and 11 percent at American Airlines.
Southwest's 5,600 pilots earned $171,000, on average, in 2009, or 20 to 40 percent more than the average salary for pilots who fly bigger planes at those other airlines. The flip side, says Carl Kuwitzky, the president of the Southwest Airlines Pilots' Association, is that the company expects its employees to be more productive.
Since Southwest typically flies shorter routes and schedules more daily flights, pilots can fly one hour longer each day than at other airlines, he says. This efficiency becomes a crucial component to the airline's edge.
''We work very hard for our company,'' says Mr. Kuwitzky. ''And we recognize that we succeed if our company is successful.''
Despite labor, Southwest still has lower overall costs than its traditional rivals. In the second quarter of 2009, Southwest's advantage could be seen in its total costs per available seat-mile. Those costs were 6 to 14 percent lower than at US Airways and American. (JetBlue and AirTran, on the other hand, have lower costs than Southwest.)
Still, Wall Street remains skeptical. Southwest's stock price, like those of most other airlines, has languished. It has dropped 18 percent in the last five years -- a generally rough period for the industry as oil prices surged and the economy slowed.
In an investment research note, analysts at Morgan Stanley recently asked a provocative question: ''Is Southwest becoming a legacy airline?''
''REMEMBER what it was like before there was somebody else up there who loved you?''
In an ad from the early 1970s, a Southwest ''hostess'' -- that's what they were called at the time -- wearing skimpy hot pants stood in the middle of a runway while a low-flying jet whizzed by and made a simple case for the new airline: We're affordable.
Until then, air travel was largely the province of a smaller, affluent class of American travelers and business types. Fares, regulated by the government, were high.
Then came Southwest. From its modest beginnings, linking Houston, Dallas and San Antonio, it revolutionized air travel. Since 1971, the year of Southwest's first flight, the number of air passengers has risen fourfold.
Larded with much higher costs, incumbent airlines immediately recognized the threat posed by the scrappy new competitor, which once famously offered a fifth of Chivas Regal scotch to entice customers to pay a $26 regular fare from Dallas to Houston. (That was instead of the discounted $13 ticket that was priced to compete with Braniff International Airways, now defunct.)
''It was personal,'' says Ron Ricks, a Southwest senior manager who witnessed some of the airline's early struggles to expand into new airports. ''But I realize now that it wasn't really personal for them. It was survival.''
The airline also prospered by remaining relentlessly focused on low fares.
''Southwest had a very profound impact on the industry,'' says Robert Crandall, who led American Airlines in the 1980s and '90s. ''They disproved the notion that customers preferred service to low prices. And to their credit, they have sustained that.''
In the two decades after airline deregulation in 1978, Southwest developed a ''cookie cutter'' method of moving into a new city, sharply cutting fares and driving up traffic, says Mr. Ricks. ''We are so consistent, it's boring,'' he says.
The ''Southwest effect'' became a major reason that overall fares dropped in its new markets, and the phenomenon was studied in business schools and the halls of government. The Department of Transportation marveled in a 1993 report: ''The principal driving force behind dramatic fundamental changes that have occurred and will occur in the U.S. airline industry over the next few years is the dramatic growth of low-cost Southwest Airlines.''
Southwest continues to have that impact when it enters a new airport. After it began service to Baltimore-Washington International in 1993, fares dropped by 70 percent and passenger traffic increased sevenfold. Traffic between Philadelphia and Providence increased by more than 800 percent, and one-way average fares fell to $44, a drop of 83 percent, in the year after Southwest entered Philadelphia in 2004.
The company started flying to Denver in January 2006. It now has 141 daily departures there, reflecting the fastest growth in its network. Frontier Airlines, based in Denver but wedged between Southwest and rising fuel costs, couldn't keep up. It filed for bankruptcy in 2008, though it kept flying.
In Las Vegas, Southwest effectively drove out most competition from US Airways, which retreated to Phoenix. With 212 daily flights, Las Vegas is now Southwest's top city.
Competitors see Southwest as cold-blooded and ruthless.
''Their approach is to search out weak companies and contest them out of business,'' says Bryan Bedford, the chairman and chief executive of Republic Airways, which bought Frontier out of bankruptcy last year. ''It's no different than Wal-Mart plunking a big-box store near a local family-owned grocery store; you either respond to the competition, or you get out.''
Robert Jordan, Southwest's vice president for strategy and network planning, sees things differently.
''We never like to say we kicked somebody out of the market,'' he says. ''Everybody makes their own choices. But we can go into a new market, charge attractive prices and, given that people love our products, gain new customers.
''At some point, it becomes very hard for others to compete because they can't make money at the prices we charge, and we can.''
There's also the whole Southwest road show that is a feature of nearly every trip: Some flight attendants joke with passengers, others play games and sing, or, in the case of one flight attendant made famous in a YouTube clip, break into rap songs.
On one recent flight to Las Vegas, when a flight attendant learned that a couple were going to marry, she dimmed the cabin lights and led the whole plane in a loud toast.
Despite the fun and games, Southwest continues to deliver on its basic promise, says Walt Rose of New Orleans, who travels on the airline occasionally.
''They can get comical sometimes -- and that's a major understatement -- but we don't mind it,'' says Mr. Rose, on a Southwest flight from New Orleans to Midland-Odessa, Tex. ''They are on time, they are reliable, and they fly where we want to go.''
AS it reaches adulthood, Southwest insists that it can hold on to its teenage ways.
''We still have an underdog mentality,'' says Mr. Kelly, the C.E.O. ''It's not a comfortable country-club environment for us.''
But some analysts say the airline has been slow to adapt in recent years, by failing to update its reservation software, for instance, or not scheduling flights to some leisure destinations favored by Americans, such as Cancun, in Mexico, or the Caribbean Islands. That has allowed others, particularly JetBlue, to build a lucrative franchise in the Caribbean.
''They were too paralyzed in their in-the-box thinking about their airline,'' says Mo Garfinkle, an airline consultant. ''Maybe they got a little too comfortable in their niche. They didn't appreciate that the world around them had changed.''
While shunning radical change, Mr. Kelly rejects the notion that Southwest has been standing still.
He points out that in the last year, the company has been in talks with its pilots to expand the fleet with Boeing 737-800s. These new planes offer 40 more seats than the airline's current 737s and will allow Southwest to fly longer distances. The move is significant because it helps pave the way for the airline to fly to Hawaii, and, for the first time, to destinations outside the United States.
But getting overseas requires a tremendous amount of work for Southwest. Pilots need to endorse the move because it would mean a change to their contract. (Flight attendants agreed to the change last week.) Southwest also needs to update its software so it can, among other things, sell international tickets and provide passport information to federal authorities -- something that its antiquated system cannot do.
While Southwest has ridden out spiking oil prices, it's still an expense that could hamper growth, especially as oil prices rise above $80 a barrel again.
Initially, the company negotiated the spike better than most. It bought complicated financial hedges intended to mitigate the impact of high fuel prices, and gained a precious advantage over its competitors as oil prices soared.
But the bet backfired in the fall of 2008, when the economy slowed and oil prices collapsed. The company lost $120 million, its first quarterly loss in more than 17 years. (It still turned a profit, however, for the full year.)
Given its low operating costs -- and an engrained philosophy not to furlough or lay off employees or cut salaries -- Southwest found that it could not cost-cut its way out of the crisis.
Instead, it needed to bolster revenue while keeping its capacity flat. So the company followed a wider industry trend, by aiming to attract more business travelers with more perks and by getting passengers to pay for new services, such as priority boarding.
But here, too, Southwest sensed an opportunity to showcase its difference. While baggage fees generated roughly $1.7 billion for the industry in the first half of the year, Southwest drew the line. It made its ''Bags Fly Free'' policy a centerpiece of its advertising and marketing campaign.
''A lot of people have been trying to pickpocket and nickel-and-dime their customers,'' says Kevin Krone, the company's head of marketing. ''We don't think it's right.''
The policy turned out to be a good business move.
Southwest's revenue rose by $1.6 billion in the first nine months of 2010, compared with that period in 2007, even as its capacity declined by 1 percent. Part of that growth in sales, Southwest believes, came from new customers fleeing bag fees. Mr. Kelly calls his rivals' approach ''a gift.''
The policy yielded another advantage. It allowed Southwest to subtly shift the focus away from its fares. Although it still offers low fares to many destinations, Southwest doesn't always have the lowest fares every day on every flight, says Bob McAdoo, an airline analyst at Avondale Partners.
''Southwest can offer pretty good prices on their Web site, but if you buy in the traditional business markets, 6 to 10 days in advance, it is not inexpensive,'' according to Mr. McAdoo, who says he recently saved $350 to fly from Kansas City to Portland, Ore., by taking Continental instead of Southwest.
To attract more business travelers, Southwest also ironed out its chaotic boarding process, which had often been derided as a ''cattle call.''
While it still does not assign seats, Southwest set up new boarding groups, giving priority to people who have checked in online. This allowed it to start charging to be in the earliest group to board.
SOUTHWEST'S biggest challenge will be in merging with AirTran, which Mr. Kelly described as ''the single best idea we have for the next years.''
The acquisition fits into the company's drive to attract more business travelers. It opens the door to Atlanta, the world's busiest airport, provides expertise on international flights and expands its foothold in New York and Washington. It also brings the carrier into more direct competition with big players like United and Continental, as well as American and Delta.
But as Southwest enters more congested airports, especially in the Northeast corridor, analysts say it may suffer the same kinds of delays and performance shortfalls that plague its rivals. Today, about a third of all Southwest's passengers connect somewhere along its network. That is well below the 50 or 60 percent connection rates at the more traditional hub-and-spoke airlines, but analysts point out that Southwest's figure is growing.
Earlier this month, the Justice Department requested more information about the merger, which would cement Southwest's lead as the top domestic carrier. Southwest still expects the deal to close in the first half of next year.
''Southwest got two big pluses from AirTran -- 37 more destinations and taking out the lowest-cost carrier in the business,'' says Robert Herbst, an independent analyst and a former commercial pilot.
The takeover will also mean some fundamental changes to another aspect of the vaunted Southwest model. The airline currently flies a single type of airplane, the Boeing 737, which allows it to minimize maintenance costs and pilot training.
With AirTran, Southwest will inherit a fleet of 86 Boeing 717s that it will have to integrate into its operations. Mr. Kelly says those planes will provide more flexibility, allowing Southwest to serve lower-traffic cities that would be uneconomical to serve with the larger 737.
Southwest will also have to absorb AirTran's 8,000 employees into its highly unionized work force of 35,000.
That aspect has prompted considerable worries among Southwest employees, who fear that the merger will somehow dilute the company's specific culture. Pilots often help clean up a cabin to speed up operations. Flight attendants have been known to lend a hand on their day off.
Thom McDaniel, the president of the Transport Workers Union Local 556, which represents the company's flight attendants, says the issue is among the most discussed among his members. ''When we wear the same uniforms, we need to be part of the same company,'' he says.
Mr. Kuwitzky, the pilots' union president, says, ''The Achilles' heel of this transaction is how our company will be able to maintain our culture, and keep it alive for the next 40 years.''
Few companies -- and certainly fewer airlines still -- have managed to foster such feelings of loyalty from their employees.
In the 1990s, at a time of rapid growth, it set up ''culture committees'' that helped propagate the ''Southwest way'' through the company.
It still strives to preserve its ethos by keeping a close eye on its hiring. Last year, for instance, it received 90,043 resumes but hired a mere 831 people, making it harder to get a job at Southwest than to get into an Ivy League college.
''Our culture is our biggest competitive strength,'' says Mr. Van de Ven, the chief operating officer. ''But we want to grow it, not protect it.''
Southwest wears its history on its walls. The headquarters here in Dallas features wall-to-wall displays of about 100,000 photographs celebrating the airline's history, follies and successes. This bond culminates at Halloween, the biggest party of the year, and one of eight corporate functions Southwest deploys to bring its employees together.
NOW it's a question of whether Southwest's culture will continue to liberate it or will hold it back.
''The traditions can hobble you; I absolutely concede that,'' says Mr. Kelly. But he says Southwest is just as scrappy as ever.
''We're still a maverick,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (BU1)
Gary Kelly, Southwest's C.E.O., dressed as Woody from ''Toy Story'' at the airline's Halloween party. At center is Ginger Hardage, a senior vice president.
 Southwest has kept maintenance costs low by using only Boeing 737s. But it is about to absorb AirTran's 717s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); HALLOWEEN (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); POP & ROCK (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); MERGERS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (85%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (85%); DAL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (73%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



772 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL THE CITY LIFE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Value-Added Food for Hungry Families

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
The government's tally of who is going hungry -- ''food insecurity'' is the unsavory term -- is at the highest level in 15 years, which means 17.4 million households across the nation must struggle to find enough to eat. That's hard to believe amid the groan and bustle of tractor trailers delivering New York City's daily sustenance round the clock to the vast Hunts Point distribution markets. This is the crossroads for the rich cornucopia shunted for retail dispersal from giant warehouse hangars to holiday celebrants in the five boroughs. 
Even more, it's the perch to translate ''food insecurity'' into reality. Twenty-seven thousand turkeys and roasters were plunked down at the delivery bays of the Food Bank, the city's resilient charity that helps feed 1.4 million people through more than 1,000 soup kitchens, food pantries and charity shelters. In a flash, the birds were sent down the food chain to families hard-hit in the recession. They were accompanied by stores of potatoes, carrots, yams and the rest.
''And here's value added,'' said David Grossnickle, a Food Bank director who surveyed the day's cadre of 35 visiting volunteers happily sorting giant wholesale pallets for neighborhood deliveries. ''It turns out people have a lot of satisfaction in touching the food'' to enhance the sense of charity, Mr. Grossnickle explained.
The tactile volunteers came up to the Bronx market halls from the Morgan Stanley corporate headquarters downtown. Sorting the food was ''about the same'' challenge as the high-finance office job, ''but more fun,'' one volunteer volunteered. The charity's cavernous chambers were stacked high with provisions donated by major food companies, small dealers (a kindhearted pickle maker in North Carolina) and federal excess programs that richly protect the farm industry.
The Food Bank is grateful for every morsel. Its blackboard by the truck bays listed this year's goal of 70 million pounds of food donations. To date, 28,927,089 pounds have been managed. Workers were insistent that they must meet the goal, prodded by extra hard times. Or ''very low food security,'' as the government refers to the more than 1 in 20 households going hungriest in the land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (93%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WHOLESALERS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



773 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: For Russia's Poor, Blond Hair Is Snippet of Gold

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSALSK, Russia -- The road into town is a potholed track, passing villages of log cabins and fallow fields that speak to the poverty that has gripped this part of central Russia for as long as anyone can remember.
But on a lane where geese waddle through muddy puddles, a brick building holds crate upon crate of this region's one precious harvestable commodity: human hair, much of it naturally blond.
For the global beauty industry, this is golden treasure.
''Nobody else has this, nobody in the world,'' said Aleksei N. Kuznetsov, the building's owner. ''Russian hair is the best in the world.'' 
Buyers of human hair, most of them small-scale Russian and Ukrainian itinerant operators who sell to hair processors like Mr. Kuznetsov, flock to poor regions like this. Cash in hand, they pay small sums for a head's worth of tresses sheared from women who often have few economic alternatives.
Long sought for wigs and toupees, human hair is now in particularly high demand for hair extension procedures in more affluent countries. Dark hair from India and China is more plentiful, but blond and other light shades are valued for their relative scarcity and because they are easier to dye to match almost any woman's natural color.
The largest market is the United States, where tens of thousands of beauty salons offer hair extensions. African-American women have long worn hair extensions, but the trend among women with lighter hair has been popularized by celebrity endorsements from the likes of Jessica Simpson and Paris Hilton.
Great Lengths, an Italian company and major supplier to the United States, has estimated the American retail market for hair extensions at $250 million annually, or about 3 percent of the entire hair care products market. The average price for extensions is $439, according to a 2009 survey by American Salon Magazine, although the procedure can cost several thousand dollars at elite salons.
The extension business is also growing in Europe.
An estimated 20 percent of Russian hair is used domestically, by the well coiffed of Moscow and St. Petersburg.
The blond harvest is not necessarily new, having followed an economic development path in recent decades, moving from Western Europe in the 1960s and '70s, through Poland in the '80s and to Ukraine and Russia after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. But as more of the world's light-haired woman have climbed the economic ladder, the search for poor blondes willing to part with their locks has become ever more difficult.
''It's not hard to understand why people in Ukraine sell their hair a hundred times more often than people in Sweden,'' David Elman, a co-owner of Raw Virgin Hair Company, an importer based in Kiev, Ukraine, said in a telephone interview. ''They are not doing it for fun. Usually, only people who have temporary financial difficulties in depressed regions sell their hair.''
Here in Mosalsk, a 16-inch braid, the shortest length a buyer will consider, fetches about $50.
Natalya N. Vinokurova, 26, grew up nearby in Yukhnov, a town where half the homes lack indoor plumbing and the average monthly wage is about $300. What little cash-crop agriculture there once was collapsed with the Soviet Union.
But Ms. Vinokurova cultivated something with market value: strawberry blond hair that hung to her waist before she sold it.
''I wore it in a braid, a ponytail, different ways,'' she said. ''But I got sick of it, and all the other girls have short hair, so I cut it,'' and then sold it, she said with a shrug. She now wears a bob and has no immediate plans to grow it to a marketable length, which she said would take years.
Mr. Kuznetsov's company here, Belli Capelli, which processes human hair into extension kits, is the largest business of its type in Russia, with annual revenue of about $16 million.
Kicking mud from his boots, he clambered into a Land Rover to tour the buildings here and in a neighboring town where a few dozen employees wash, dye and comb hair, then sort it by hue and length. At one sorting table, where about 500 braids were laid out, he stopped to extol the quality of his product. The best hair, he said, is honey-hued, changes color in the light and is soft to the touch.
''This is capitalism,'' he said. ''The people with money want to distinguish themselves from the people with no money. Why does one woman sell her hair to another? The person with money wants to look better than the person without money.''
American customers are typically unconcerned about the origins of extensions, other than to ask if they are hygienic, said Ron Landzaat, founder of Hair Extensions Guide, a trade group in Santa Rosa, Calif., who said the hair was sterilized by boiling it.
''They are concerned about their looks more than anything else,'' Mr. Landzaat said by telephone.
Obtaining adequate supplies is the industry's biggest challenge.
Great Lengths, the Italian supplier to the American market, obtains hair that women have ritualistically donated to temples in India, and says it can be dyed to match most hair types. Others in the business, including Mr. Kuznetsov, say European hair is a better option for women with light hair, and so is prized.
Russian factory towns in the Ural Mountains, about 900 miles east of Mosalsk, became such contested territory among hair buyers that in 2006 one was shot in a dispute with another, suggesting Russian organized crime involvement, the newspaper Kommersant reported.
Although Mr. Kuznetsov has no local rivals that he knows of, he keeps a security guard posted at the entrance to his storeroom. The milk crates, filled with the hair of thousands of women and sorted by categories including ''Southern Russian'' and ''Russian Gold,'' might make an alluring target for a heist.
Most hair comes from buyers who roam the rougher parts of Russia, Ukraine and other former Soviet states, posting fliers on utility poles offering money for hair. In Belarus, President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, a staunch nationalist, has placed such tight controls on small entrepreneurs that the trade is all but impossible, to the regret of those in the business, because the country is poor and has an abundance of blond women.
Generally, about 70 percent of the hair bought in Russia comes from locks kept at home from previous haircuts. Some Ukrainian and Russian women, for example, traditionally cut their hair after the birth of their first child, and may decide only years later to sell it. In areas of dire poverty, it is a final resource to tap in times of desperation.
The rest is bought, often after some haggling, directly from the head of the seller, who then gets a haircut on the spot. As a courtesy, in Russia, the deal is nearly always done in a salon so a hairdresser can cut carefully.
''Some women cut their hair to change their style, others need the money,'' said Sergei V. Kotlubi, a buyer who plies the blighted industrial regions near the city of Novosibirsk in Siberia. ''It's like fishing. You never know what you will catch.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the global beauty industry, blond hair is valuable. At this plant in Yukhnov, Russia, hair is washed, dyed and sorted. (A1)
 These blond locks being processed for export are highly valued because of their relative scarity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERI NISTRATOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); WOMEN (72%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TRENDS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%); JESSICA SIMPSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



774 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Ireland's Paradise Lost

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
For an American tourist weaned on Gaelic kitsch and screenings of ''The Quiet Man,'' the landscape of contemporary Ireland comes as something of a shock. Drive from Dublin to the western coast and back, as I did two months ago, and you'll still find all the thatched-roof farmhouses, winding stone walls and placid sheep that the postcards would lead you to expect. But round every green hill, there's a swath of miniature McMansions. Past every tumble-down castle, a cascade of condominiums. In sleepy fishing villages that date to the days of Grace O'Malley, Ireland's Pirate Queen (she was the Sarah Palin of the 16th century), half the houses look the part -- but the rest could have been thrown up by the Toll brothers.
It's as if there were only two eras in Irish history: the Middle Ages and the housing bubble. 
This actually isn't a bad way of thinking about Ireland's 20th century. The island spent decade after decade isolated, premodern and rural -- and then in just a few short years, boom, modernity! The Irish sometimes say that their 1960s didn't happen until the 1990s, when secularization and the sexual revolution finally began in earnest in what had been one of the most conservative and Catholic countries in the world. But Ireland caught up fast: the kind of social and economic change that took 50 years or more in many places was compressed into a single revolutionary burst.
There was a time, not so very long ago, when everyone wanted to take credit for this transformation. Free-market conservatives hailed Ireland's rapid growth as an example of the miracles that free trade, tax cuts and deregulation can accomplish. (In 1990, Ireland ranked near the bottom of European Union nations in G.D.P. per capita. In 2005, it ranked second.)
Progressives and secularists suggested that Ireland was thriving because it had finally escaped the Catholic Church's repressive grip, which kept horizons narrow and families large, and limited female economic opportunity. (An academic paper on this theme, ''Contraception and the Celtic Tiger,'' earned the Malcolm Gladwell treatment in the pages of The New Yorker.) The European elite regarded Ireland as a case study in the benefits of E.U. integration, since the more tightly the Irish bound themselves to Continental institutions, the faster their gross domestic product rose.
Nobody tells those kinds of stories anymore. The Celtic housing bubble was more inflated than America's (a lot of those McMansions are half-finished and abandoned), the Celtic banking industry was more reckless in its bets, and Ireland's debts, private and public, make our budget woes look manageable by comparison. The Irish economy is on everybody's mind again these days, but that's because the government has just been forced to apply for a bailout from the E.U., lest Ireland become the green thread that unravels the European quilt.
If the bailout does its work and the Irish situation stabilizes, the world's attention will move on to the next E.U. country on the brink, whether it's Portugal, Spain or Greece (again). But when the story of the Great Recession is remembered, Ireland will offer the most potent cautionary tale. Nowhere did the imaginations of utopians run so rampant, and nowhere did they receive a more stinging rebuke.
To the utopians of capitalism, the Irish experience should be a reminder that the biggest booms can produce the biggest busts, and that debt and ruin always shadow prosperity and growth. To the utopians of secularism, the Irish experience should be a reminder that the waning of a powerful religious tradition can breed decadence as well as liberation. (''Ireland found riches a good substitute for its traditional culture,'' Christopher Caldwell noted, but now ''we may be about to discover what happens when a traditionally poor country returns to poverty without its culture.'')
But it's the utopians of European integration who should learn the hardest lessons from the Irish story. The continent-wide ripples from Ireland's banking crisis have vindicated the Euroskeptics who argued that the E.U. was expanded too hastily, and that a single currency couldn't accommodate such a wide diversity of nations. And the Irish government's hat-in-hand pilgrimages to Brussels have vindicated every nationalist who feared that economic union would eventually mean political subjugation. The yoke of the European Union is lighter than the yoke of the British Empire, but Ireland has returned to a kind of vassal status all the same.
As for the Irish themselves, their idyllic initiation into global capitalism is over, and now they probably understand the nature of modernity a little better. At times, it can seem to deliver everything you ever wanted, and wealth beyond your dreams. But you always have to pay for it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); HISTORY (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); DEREGULATION (68%); RANKINGS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



775 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: A Newspaper, But Not In Print

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
People who own an iPad will tell you it makes everything look sexier. Maybe even a newspaper.
Rupert Murdoch, an old-timey newspaper romantic, has nonetheless deputized himself as the digital savior of paid content. Mr. Murdoch is currently leading the charge to build The Daily, an iPad-centered newspaper under construction in the News Corporation's Manhattan offices that is scheduled to appear at the beginning of next year.
With an investment of $30 million and a staff of around 100, The Daily will be the first of a kind -- a ''newspaper'' with rich media and photography built especially for the iPad.
The enterprise has made some surprising hires from the ranks of the mainstream -- Sasha Frere-Jones, the music critic of The New Yorker; Steve Alperin, a high-profile television producer; and Richard Johnson, the former king of Page Six. The Daily will incorporate some material from the rest of the News Corporation -- Fox Sports will provide some video, according to people putting together the prototype -- but the plan is that a vast majority of the content will be original. 
Mr. Murdoch told Fox Business this week that The Daily was his ''No. 1 most exciting project,'' a sentiment that was echoed an ocean away by his son James who called tablet newspapers ''our flagship project.''
Leaving aside some elephant-size editorial questions -- how do you put out an original national newspaper every day with a staff of only 100? -- there's an argument to be made for the News Corporation's app-centric approach. Newspapers have been so busy trying to come to grips with the Web, but there may be a better opportunity on tablets and other mobile devices on which consumers are used to paying for at least some content.
The News Corporation clearly sees the iPad as a way to bring consumer revenue back to the publication of news, in part because the company has had some success in building a relationship with Apple. Consumers who download The Wall Street Journal's iPad application buy their subscription from Dow Jones. (The Economist recently announced a similar arrangement because, like The Journal, it was already charging for content online.) Other publishers have complained that they have been locked out of selling such ''in-app subscriptions'' and left to sell single issues.
(The Los Angeles Times reported last summer that Mr. Murdoch was agreeing to let Apple sell Fox TV shows on iTunes for 99 cents each -- over the objections of some News Corporation executives -- perhaps in return for most-favored-nation status for its newspaper applications on the iPad. Executives at the News Corporation say that the two initiatives are distinct and that no consideration was asked for or given. An Apple spokeswoman said the company would not comment on rumors or speculation.)
If you want a good look at the past and future of the News Corporation, compare the Web site of The New York Post -- surely one of the ugliest, least functional in the business -- with its snappy new iPad app. It's a charming product, one that well reflects and amplifies the spice and excesses of the mother brand.
The night-and-day bifurcation is understandable given that Mr. Murdoch has never entirely trusted the Web, with its terrible advertising economics and brutal fight for revenue from consumers.
In July, The Times of London and The Sunday Times -- both owned by the News Corporation -- went behind a pay wall, and the company recently reported about 100,000 payments in the first four months of the effort, only half of which were for more than one-off purchases of a story.
Subtract out subscribers to the print product, as well as Kindle and iPad users -- as the digital thinker and writer Clay Shirky recently did -- and the number of actual opt-in customers could be in the low tens of thousands. That compares with a pre-paywall audience of six million unique visitors, according to estimates from the research firm comScore.
With The Daily, the News Corporation can enter the digital newsstand business in earnest with a new product that was never free on the Web and in a format for which payments are easily made. When I am on a Web browser and I bump into a pay wall, I reflexively pull back unless it is in front of something I really must have. But when I'm in the App Store on an iPad, I'm already in a commercial environment: pushing the button to spend small money on something I'd like to see or play with doesn't seem like such a sucker's bet.
But Mr. Murdoch's view that Steven Jobs's device is some kind of magical kingdom for news is up against some hard realities. As innovative as it seems, The Daily will be a newspaper, an ancient motif on a modern device. It will be produced into the evening, and then a button will be pushed and it will be ''printed'' for the next morning. There will be updates -- the number of which is still under discussion -- but not at the velocity or with the urgency of a news Web site.
And at a time when the ecosystem of news is driven by links, The Daily will have no inbound links from other sites, and nothing outbound either. (Initially, there will be a mirror site on the Web to market some of its wares outside the high-walled kingdom of apps.)
It seems sensible to wonder: who is going to bring old habits to a new environment? The people who own or will buy an iPad have become used to a Web browser as their prism on the news, not a newspaper and its editors. The Daily will have a separate opinion section, which will seem wildly anachronistic to readers who have grown up reading news and point-of-view analysis in the same piece of digital journalism.
Beyond editorial challenges, the path to a real business with real profits seems a lot less clear than the display on an iPad. If, as Mr. Murdoch is said to hope, half a million people eventually subscribe over the first five years, that would be almost 5 percent of all current tablet users, which seems wildly optimistic. (Then again, by some estimates, the number of tablet users will grow to more than 100 million in the same period.)
In the meantime, reaching about 100,000 people seems far more likely, which would yield less than $20 million annually, even before Apple gets a cut. And the discrete market for advertising within applications seems promising, but it is largely untested.
In the short run at least, The Daily will be like a number of Mr. Murdoch's other newspapers in this respect: It will be depending on money earned by other parts of the News Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); MUSIC (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (61%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



776 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: There Will Be Blood

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Former Senator Alan Simpson is a Very Serious Person. He must be -- after all, President Obama appointed him as co-chairman of a special commission on deficit reduction.
So here's what the very serious Mr. Simpson said on Friday: ''I can't wait for the blood bath in April. ... When debt limit time comes, they're going to look around and say, 'What in the hell do we do now? We've got guys who will not approve the debt limit extension unless we give 'em a piece of meat, real meat,' '' meaning spending cuts. ''And boy, the blood bath will be extraordinary,'' he continued.
Think of Mr. Simpson's blood lust as one more piece of evidence that our nation is in much worse shape, much closer to a political breakdown, than most people realize. 
Some explanation: There's a legal limit to federal debt, which must be raised periodically if the government keeps running deficits; the limit will be reached again this spring. And since nobody, not even the hawkiest of deficit hawks, thinks the budget can be balanced immediately, the debt limit must be raised to avoid a government shutdown. But Republicans will probably try to blackmail the president into policy concessions by, in effect, holding the government hostage; they've done it before.
Now, you might think that the prospect of this kind of standoff, which might deny many Americans essential services, wreak havoc in financial markets and undermine America's role in the world, would worry all men of good will. But no, Mr. Simpson ''can't wait.'' And he's what passes, these days, for a reasonable Republican.
The fact is that one of our two great political parties has made it clear that it has no interest in making America governable, unless it's doing the governing. And that party now controls one house of Congress, which means that the country will not, in fact, be governable without that party's cooperation -- cooperation that won't be forthcoming.
Elite opinion has been slow to recognize this reality. Thus on the same day that Mr. Simpson rejoiced in the prospect of chaos, Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, appealed for help in confronting mass unemployment. He asked for ''a fiscal program that combines near-term measures to enhance growth with strong, confidence-inducing steps to reduce longer-term structural deficits.''
My immediate thought was, why not ask for a pony, too? After all, the G.O.P. isn't interested in helping the economy as long as a Democrat is in the White House. Indeed, far from being willing to help Mr. Bernanke's efforts, Republicans are trying to bully the Fed itself into giving up completely on trying to reduce unemployment.
And on matters fiscal, the G.O.P. program is to do almost exactly the opposite of what Mr. Bernanke called for. On one side, Republicans oppose just about everything that might reduce structural deficits: they demand that the Bush tax cuts be made permanent while demagoguing efforts to limit the rise in Medicare costs, which are essential to any attempts to get the budget under control. On the other, the G.O.P. opposes anything that might help sustain demand in a depressed economy -- even aid to small businesses, which the party claims to love.
Right now, in particular, Republicans are blocking an extension of unemployment benefits -- an action that will both cause immense hardship and drain purchasing power from an already sputtering economy. But there's no point appealing to the better angels of their nature; America just doesn't work that way anymore.
And opposition for the sake of opposition isn't limited to economic policy. Politics, they used to tell us, stops at the water's edge -- but that was then.
These days, national security experts are tearing their hair out over the decision of Senate Republicans to block a desperately needed new strategic arms treaty. And everyone knows that these Republicans oppose the treaty, not because of legitimate objections, but simply because it's an Obama administration initiative; if sabotaging the president endangers the nation, so be it.
How does this end? Mr. Obama is still talking about bipartisan outreach, and maybe if he caves in sufficiently he can avoid a federal shutdown this spring. But any respite would be only temporary; again, the G.O.P. is just not interested in helping a Democrat govern.
My sense is that most Americans still don't understand this reality. They still imagine that when push comes to shove, our politicians will come together to do what's necessary. But that was another country.
It's hard to see how this situation is resolved without a major crisis of some kind. Mr. Simpson may or may not get the blood bath he craves this April, but there will be blood sooner or later. And we can only hope that the nation that emerges from that blood bath is still one we recognize.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EXTORTION (65%); EVIDENCE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



777 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: ADMINISTRATION TO SEEK BALANCE IN AIR SCREENING

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
Caught between complaints that airport screening has become too intrusive and threats of new terror attacks on aviation, Obama administration officials say they are sensitive to criticisms that security measures go too far, but they are insisting that the measures now in place are justified by the risks.
With the Thanksgiving travel crush imminent, the chief of the Transportation Security Administration, John S. Pistole, said in a statement that his agency would try to make screening methods ''as minimally invasive as possible.'' But he gave no indication that the agency would reverse its move to full-body scanners, now deployed in 70 of 450 airports in the United States, and physical pat-downs for passengers who object to the scans. 
''This has always been viewed as an evolving program that will be adapted as conditions warrant, and we greatly appreciate the cooperation and understanding of the American people,'' Mr. Pistole said.
Security officials said the new procedures were the only way to detect explosives hidden under clothing. ''We cannot forget that less than one year ago a suicide bomber with explosives in his underwear tried to bring down a plane over Detroit,'' Mr. Pistole said.
The debate over the proper balance of security and privacy was unfolding as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the terrorist group responsible for the Detroit airliner bomb last Christmas and for placing explosive devices aboard cargo planes last month, threatened similar plots to sow fear, disrupt travel and transport, and impose huge costs on the United States.
''This strategy of attacking the enemy with smaller but more frequent operations is what some may refer to as the strategy of a thousand cuts,'' the Yemen-based group said in a new issue of its English-language magazine, Inspire, which resembles a glossy publication but is available for download on militant Web sites. ''The aim is to bleed the enemy to death.''
The T.S.A., which screens about two million air passengers a day, began testing the full-body scanners in 2007, installed them more widely starting last year and accelerated their use after the failed plot last Christmas. If a screener spots something suspicious on a scan, which shows an outline of the unclothed body, or if a passenger prefers to skip the scan, the passenger must undergo a physical search that many passengers have found intrusive.
The furor began after Nov. 1, when the agency introduced the more aggressive pat-down procedure. Despite the storm of criticism from passengers, pilots and members of Congress, agency officials point to opinion polls showing that about 80 percent of the public supports the use of body scanners. About 1 percent of passengers have opted out of the scanner and undergone pat-downs so far this month, officials said.
Congressional leaders have promised to hold hearings on the issue.
Still, the administration has appeared to be caught off guard by the outrage of some passengers. Mr. Pistole agreed on Saturday to demands from pilots that they be exempted from the searches, after critics noted that a pilot who wants to destroy a plane hardly needs explosives to do so.
On Saturday in Lisbon, President Obama acknowledged public complaints but said he had been told by T.S.A. and counterterrorism advisers that ''at this point'' the measures ''are the only ones right now that they consider to be effective against the kind of threat that we saw in the Christmas Day bombing.''
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday that she did not want to ''second guess'' security officials, but added that ''everyone, including our security experts, are looking for ways to diminish the impact on the traveling public.''
On another Sunday talk show, CBS's ''Face the Nation,'' Mrs. Clinton said she would not like to go through a security pat-down.
''Not if I could avoid it,'' she said. ''No. I mean, who would?''
On CNN's ''State of the Union'' on Sunday, Mr. Pistole, a 26-year F.B.I. veteran who took over at the T.S.A. in June, described the scanners and pat-downs as the last line of defense against terrorists who evade no-fly lists and the ''behavior detection officers'' looking out for suspicious conduct at airports.
''If they do opt out, we just want to make sure, for example, on Christmas Day,'' Mr. Pistole said, in a clear reference to the underwear bomber, that ''they receive a thorough pat-down so they don't pose a risk to that plane.''
In a sense, the strategy trumpeted by Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula in the new issue of Inspire represents a victory for Western counterterrorism. The group acknowledged that Sept. 11-style attacks may be impossible to organize without being detected by the expanded intelligence dragnet.
''Really, it's a good marketing spin on a pretty desperate strategy,'' said James Carafano, a security specialist at the Heritage Foundation.
But the magazine showed that Qaeda planners have an increasing awareness that smaller-scale attacks, including those focused on air cargo, can cause enormous economic damage and public anxiety.
''It has a particular impact, coming as it does at a time when we're arguing about how to prevent the kind of attack the same group tried at Christmas,'' said Bruce Hoffman, an expert on terrorism at Georgetown University.
Both Mr. Carafano and Mr. Hoffman said they would advise the administration to revise the screening procedures. Mr. Carafano said limiting the body scans and pat-downs to secondary screening, for travelers who raise suspicions, would be more sensible than expanding the costly scanners to all travelers.
Mr. Hoffman said the administration should move away from adding more layers of security for every passenger in response to every new plot and consider an Israeli-style approach to identify passengers who pose a particular risk, based on advance intelligence, questioning travelers and watching their behavior.
''We've had nine years of just grafting security measures one on another,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''Maybe it's time to step back, take a hard look and look for a new approach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sign in Seattle informing travelers about full-body scanners. Those refusing a scan are subjected to a thorough pat-down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); AIRPORTS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%)

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



778 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: As Officials Face Corruption Charges, California City Struggles to Move On

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
BELL, Calif. -- At first glance, it is difficult to tell anything is amiss at the tiny City Hall here. The waiting area is filled with people trying to argue their way out of parking tickets. A City Council meeting agenda is tacked on the bulletin board. And golden-framed portraits of council members are prominently displayed in the lobby.
But just to the right of those portraits is a gaping space where one council member's image used to be. He was arrested in September, along with nearly all of the city's top officials, charged with using the city's coffers as their own, giving themselves top salaries and illicit low-interest loans. 
Many of those officials have stepped down, including Robert Rizzo, the former chief administrator who was paid nearly $800,000, along with generous benefits, to run this small working-class suburb southeast of Los Angeles. So did Councilman Luis Artiga, who was paid roughly $100,000 for the part-time position. Last month, Mr. Artiga said that while he had served ''with pride and honor,'' he thought it was in the ''best interest'' of the city for him to resign.
Other city officials who were charged with malfeasance apparently disagree. Mayor Oscar Hernandez and two other council members who were arrested maintain their innocence and are still in office, although they face a recall election in March.
Now, in many ways, Bell is in limbo. How can it regain the trust of residents after investigations showed that officials bilked more than $5.5 million? And just who should try to earn that trust?
''We all know all this money has been mismanaged,'' said Nora Saenz, 32, who, like many, had never paid much attention to politics until the scandal erupted this summer after The Los Angeles Times published the salaries of Mr. Rizzo and other officials, the first of many reports detailing their exploits. ''What can we do to stop this, that's what we want to know. Our money is still being abused, and who can do anything about it?''
For the most part, life goes on as it always has. The streets are still littered, but no more than usual; the police still respond to petty crimes and quickly arrived at the scene of a gang-related shooting this month. But it is difficult to go anywhere without hearing chatter about the latest developments as the cases against the city officials wind their way through the courts.
Recently, residents began receiving refund checks after being overcharged for city taxes for the past several years. At a recent meeting to air concerns about the city, one resident said he ''did a little victory dance'' when his check arrived in the mail.
''It's something, but it's not enough,'' Ms. Saenz said, echoing the sentiment of many. (One city official said privately that without those refunds, ''people would have torched this place.'')
Red-and-white recall signs dot lawns and windows all over the city. The county clerk just began accepting applications for those who want to replace the council members, but so far many potential candidates seem reluctant to embrace the prospect of picking up the pieces of whatever is left of the local government.
''How does this happen -- that's what everyone asks over and over again,'' said Cristina Garcia, a lead organizer of Basta (Spanish for enough), a group that organized petitions to recall the mayor and the City Council. ''I don't know what you do to put it together again. Good luck with that.''
For now, the day-to-day work is falling to Pedro Carrillo, who had been a consultant in Bell and other cities for several years. After Mr. Rizzo stepped down in July, the City Council appointed Mr. Carrillo as the interim administrative officer.
Mr. Carrillo quickly came under fire as residents questioned how he could be independent if he was appointed by the very council members who were being investigated. Late last week, another audit from the state controller found that Mr. Carrillo's consulting firm was paid more than $200,000 by the city in the past two years. Now, Mr. Carrillo is under pressure to resign.
State law requires the city to have an administrator. Efforts to take authority away from the city have gone nowhere. So investigators and Mr. Carrillo seem to have agreed that officials from the offices of the Los Angeles district attorney, the state attorney general and the state controller will continue to explore what happened under Mr. Rizzo's watch while Mr. Carrillo tries to ''clean up whatever we can,'' as he puts it.
Like many people here, Mr. Carrillo said he often looked at the numbers in disbelief and wondered how people could take so much money from a primarily Latino city where so many live below the poverty line and scrimp to afford the modest stucco homes that line the streets.
The remaining council members and Mayor Hernandez still come into City Hall to help answer Mr. Carrillo's questions. It is not his job to be judge or jury for them, Mr. Carrillo said, but he praised them for having the ''courage'' to show up at a council meeting this month.
On his lawyer's advice, Mr. Hernandez came with a police escort. Residents greeted him with jeers and shouts. ''You looked really good in orange,'' one called out, referring to Mr. Hernandez's time in jail. Eventually, Mr. Carrillo ordered everyone but the press out of the room, leaving the public to watch on a television screen in an adjacent room.
These days, it is expected that any public hearing dissecting the situation will be filled to capacity. A local assemblyman, Hector De La Torre, organized a recent briefing on an audit from the state controller's office. There were few revelations at the meeting. The audits had been completed for weeks and were widely covered in the local press. And yet the audience was rapt as officials ticked off a list of loans to city employees. This one for college tuition, that one for payment on a home, and each with an interest rate of less than a couple of percentage points.
When they began detailing Mr. Rizzo's health care plan -- not only did the city cover 100 percent of the cost of the policy, but it also reimbursed him for co-payments -- the audience gasped. ''Wouldn't that be nice?'' one woman muttered in Spanish.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cristina Garcia is part of a group seeking the recall of the mayor and City Council in Bell, Calif. (A15)
 Residents of Bell, Calif., lined up to share views at a recent meeting organized by Assemblyman Hector De La Torre. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES ) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); ARRESTS (75%); MISCONDUCT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SHOOTINGS (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



779 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: A Protest Dwindles, If Not Its Passion

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ga. -- The annual November protest here at the gates of Fort Benning used to really be something.
At its peak a few years ago, more than 17,000 people streamed into town, united in their effort to shut down the School of the Americas, a United States Department of Defense center that they believe has trained Latin American military leaders to torture and murder.
Hundreds of people would cross onto the base and get arrested in mass acts of civil disobedience. Catholic groups staged workshops. Old lefties treated it like a family reunion. Vendors sold bumper stickers and Guatemalan hacky sacks.
So many people from so many left-leaning organizations began showing up that School of the Americas Watch, which runs the protest, rented the local convention center for seminars and concerts. 
Enterprising locals set up barbecue stands and charged $10 for parking in nearby lots. The convention bureau helped with hotel arrangements.
The protest has brought the city as much as $2.2 million in business, more than twice what the annual Jehovah's Witness convention did, said Peter Bowden, president of the Columbus Convention & Visitors Bureau.
''It is, in essence, the equivalent of a fairly large convention for our town, and we tend to treat the attendees in that respect,'' Mr. Bowden said.
But the times, they are a changing. This year's protest, the 20th, drew its smallest crowd ever over the weekend. Both the police and organizers agree that fewer than 5,000 people showed up.
Signs of its decline were everywhere. At the Masonic lodge near the protest site, a local military family had hoped for a lucrative weekend selling hot dogs and drinks. They packed in 15 cases of water, but by Saturday afternoon only a dozen bottles had sold. They did not even bother on Sunday.
As a counterbalance to the protest, the school 10 years ago began offering tours over the same weekend and changed its name to the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation. A panel of school leaders volunteers to answer questions and explain that the education of Latin American military personnel now emphasizes democracy and human rights along with military intelligence and psychological operations.
Last year, more than 500 signed up to attend, mostly students from Catholic high schools and colleges. This year, only 128 were bused on base for the 90-minute session.
The small crowd at the gates of Fort Benning disappointed Sheri Hosek, 39, who traveled from Dubuque, Iowa. She had heard about the event through her work with Franciscan nuns.
''There was a lot of hype about it, but it feels like a much smaller presentation than I had expected,'' Ms. Hosek said. ''It feels more like a summer festival, a very liberal one of course.''
Maybe it was the economy, some said. Others said that rallying liberal activists after the election of President Obama had become more challenging because many thought the fight was over.
And it did not help that a couple of thousand Jesuit students who usually attend did not come this year, choosing instead to hold their annual teach-in in Washington.
Others wondered if Latin America politics just are not capturing the attention of American youths as they once did.
''My generation is all over the place,'' said Ben Johnson, 28, of Athens, Ga., who was grabbing a coffee in a hotel lobby near the base. ''They are completely apathetic, or they've completely devoted their entire life to change.''
The protest began after six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper and her daughter were killed in El Salvador in November 1989 by a group that a Congressional task force connected to School of the Americas graduates.
On the anniversary the following year, a small group led by the Rev. Roy Bourgeois, a Catholic priest, held a water-only fast at the gates. He has since become an internationally known peace advocate and still lives in a small apartment near the gate.
''Most of the young people in the crowd don't even know who he is,'' said Liz Loescher, 68, an eight-time veteran of the protest who runs the Georgia Conflict Center in Athens.
Stiffer federal penalties have hurt the effort, too. In the late 1990s, almost 3,000 people crossed onto the base and were briefly detained. After the Sept. 11 attacks, when a series of fences were built, that number dropped to 80.
Then a federal judge began handing out six-month sentences. That sent the numbers even lower. Last year, only four people entered the base, the same number as this year. All were arrested and charged with federal trespassing.
To try to revive things and to give people another, easier way to protest the school, organizers this year encouraged the willing to cross outside the permitted event parameters and take to the streets of Columbus as an act of civil disobedience.
On Saturday, a dozen people walked onto the highway and held up a banner that read ''Stop: This is the End of the Road for the S.O.A.'' They were arrested.
A few hours later, as a parade was ending, the police showed up in force, riot helmets stacked on car hoods and plastic handcuffs looped onto uniforms. They funneled the crowd from the legal protest area through a narrow pathway to the street and told anyone who stopped to keep moving.
Protesters, some yelling, ''This is what Democracy looks like,'' veered from the path. In a quick swirl of activity that took many by surprise, a dozen people were arrested, including news crews from Russian Television and two radio reporters.
They were put in a city bus and taken to the Muscogee County Jail. Bail was set as high $5,500.
Hendrik Voss, a spokesman for School of the Americas Watch, said the police had overreacted.
Capt. J. D. Hawk of the Columbus Police Department disputed that. ''The police weren't very aggressive at all,'' he said. The number of arrests, Captain Hawk said, was smaller than he had expected given information about the organizers' plans gathered in the days leading up to the protest.
On Sunday, legal teams scrambled to make bail, pleading from the stage for volunteers with cash and credit cards to come forward and using the arrests to rally the faithful.
''It's an awakening for U.S. activists,'' Mr. Voss said.
For the old-timers, the arrests were a distraction, and the smaller crowds beside the point.
Lisa Porter, 45, had traveled from Berkeley, Calif., the seventh time she has done so. She spent much of her time sitting in quiet contemplation inches from the fence that separated her from the base.
''I believe torture is wrong, and I won't tolerate it,'' she said. ''If there were only four people here, I'd still be with them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Each year, protesters visit Columbus, Ga., to demonstrate against a federal program that trains Latin American military members. The crosses placed at the fence represent people who are missing or who are believed to have been killed by death squads. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (88%); FESTIVALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (76%); FAMILY (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TORTURE (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (58%); AMERICAS WATCH (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



780 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS With Thanksgiving on Thursday, some reports this week have been moved up the calendar. Reports due will include revised gross domestic product for the third quarter and October sales of previously owned homes (Tuesday); and new home sales for October, weekly jobless claims, personal income and spending for October, durable goods for October and the November Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index (Wednesday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Hewlett-Packard and Tyson Foods (Monday); Campbell Soup, Medtronic and TiVo (Tuesday); and Deere and Tiffany (Wednesday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Financial Stability Oversight Council is scheduled to meet (Tuesday). President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will visit Kokomo, Ind., in the wake of the General Motors' initial public offering (Tuesday). The Federal Reserve will release minutes from its November meeting with an updated economic forecast (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (51%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); TYSON FOODS INC (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); TSN (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (53%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



781 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Council to Report on New York's Food Industry, From Seed to Compost

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
New York's relationship to food revolves largely -- if not obsessively -- around buying and eating it, but the city and its role in the food system, from farming to distribution to the compost pile, is the subject of an 86-page City Council report to be released on Monday.
The report, called ''Food Works,'' lays out environmental, economic and health goals, some of which the Council can accomplish through legislation and many of which it cannot. The study was commissioned by the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn. 
''Usually people tend to pick parts of the food system; the fact that she's looking at all parts as a whole is extremely innovative,'' said Pat Purcell, an assistant to the president of UFCW Local 1500, which represents supermarket workers and contributed to the report. ''The entire food system, when you look at it, can produce three quality things: good jobs, good food and good health.''
The study, obtained by The New York Times, breaks down the food system into five steps: agriculture, processing, distribution, consumption and post-consumption. For each, it lays out proposals, alongside brightly colored charts and the occasional picture of a cow or children.
The Council highlights a pilot program that trains New Yorkers for jobs in the food industry, in areas like food safety and merchandising that the report says tend to be relatively stable. It also describes efforts to get carts that sell fruits and vegetables to accept food stamps, and the creation of ''incubator'' kitchens, to give startup food producers access to commercial kitchen space while they are getting off the ground.
But the report goes beyond the Council's purview, addressing issues like requiring food stamp recipients to be fingerprinted, a rule carried out by the Bloomberg administration. Ms. Quinn does not often disagree publicly with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, but the report criticizes the fingerprinting policy in strong language, concluding that there was ''no compelling evidence'' that it reduced fraud.
The report also wades into the world of federal farm subsidies, which it says should focus less on corn and other commodity crops and move toward fruits and vegetables from local farms.
Some advocates say there is value in the Council's shining a spotlight on various ideas, even if its role is limited.
''To have this addressed by the City Council, whether they can touch 20 percent of it or all of it, raises the issues of the food system,'' said Kate MacKenzie, the director of policy and government relations at City Harvest, a group that fights hunger.
''A lot of local governments are jumping into this,'' said Ms. MacKenzie, who cited holistic approaches in San Francisco and Baltimore.
Ms. Mackenzie said she had yet to read the report. Some others await their chance with more caution. ''What I would be looking for is ways in which the City Council would be addressing the high cost of doing business, looking for ways to streamline regulation,'' said Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist for the food industry who focuses on local businesses.
Along with scholars, advocates and union leaders, contributors included Dan Barber, the executive chef and co-owner of the Blue Hill restaurants. Many of them have high hopes for the study's impact.
''It's more than an academic exercise,'' said Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger. ''It's a serious plan, and hopefully federal elected officials will listen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn in a rooftop garden in Long Island City, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); MAYORS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); FINGERPRINTING (67%); FOOD STAMPS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



782 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: French Fear 'Brain Drain' To the U.S.

BYLINE: By MAIA de la BAUME

 BODY:
PARIS -- Academics are increasingly leaving France for the United States, which carries the risk of a ''brain drain'' in France, according to a report this month by an independent study group. 
The group, the Institut Montaigne, found that academics constitute a much larger percentage of French emigres to the United States today than 30 years ago. It found that between 1971 and 1980, academics represented just 8 percent of the departing population; between 1996 and 2006, they represented 27 percent.
''The acceleration of French scientific emigration to the United States is recent and worrisome,'' said the report, called ''Gone for Good? The Expatriates of French Higher Education in the United States.''
Of the 2,745 French citizens who obtained a doctorate in the United States from 1985 to 2008, 70 percent settled there, the study found.
The number of French scientists who leave France for the United States remains limited, but the exodus of the most talented scientists could hurt the economy, the report suggested.
''Those who leave France are the best, the most prolific and the best integrated on an international scale,'' said the report, which surveyed about a hundred French researchers and professors who studied in France's top universities and elite schools.
Many of France's best biologists and economists are now in the United States. According to a study in 2007 by the Ecole des Mines, four of the six top French researchers in economics had left for the United States.
''Biology and economics are poorly recognized in France,'' said Thomas Philippon, a French economist who began teaching finance at New York University Stern School of Business in 2003.
Two of France's best-known economists teach at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and obtained their doctorates there. One, Olivier Blanchard, is also the chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. The other, Esther Duflo, this year received the John Bates Clark Medal, one of most prestigious awards in economics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BIOLOGY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



783 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Booming China Is Buying Up World's Coal

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Even as developed countries close or limit the construction of coal-fired power plants out of concern over pollution and climate-warming emissions, coal has found a rapidly expanding market elsewhere: Asia, particularly China.
At ports in Canada, Australia, Indonesia, Colombia and South Africa, ships are lining up to load coal for furnaces in China, which has evolved virtually overnight from a coal exporter to one of the world's leading purchasers.
The United States now ships coal to China via Canada, but coal companies are scouting for new loading ports in Washington State. New mines are being planned for the Rockies and the Pacific Northwest. Indeed, some of the world's more environmentally progressive regions are nascent epicenters of the new coal export trade, creating political tensions between business and environmental goals.
Traditionally, coal is burned near where it is mined -- particularly so-called thermal or steaming coal, used for heat and electricity. But in the last few years, long-distance international coal exports have been surging because of China's galloping economy, which now burns half of the six billion tons of coal used globally each year. 
As a result, not only are the pollutants that developed countries have tried to reduce finding their way into the atmosphere anyway, but ships chugging halfway around the globe are spewing still more.
And the rush to feed this new Asian market has helped double the price of coal over the past five years, leading to a renaissance of mining and exploration in many parts of the world.
''This is a worst-case scenario,'' said David Graham-Caso, spokesman for the Sierra Club, which estimates that its ''Beyond Coal'' campaign has helped to block 139 proposed coal plants in the United States over the last few years. ''We don't want this coal burned here, but we don't want it burned at all. This is undermining everything we've accomplished.''
In Australia, environmental groups have repeatedly halted trainloads of coal headed to the export docks at Newcastle this fall, and flotillas of kayaking protesters have delayed cargo pickups by Asia-bound coal ships.
Julia Gillard, Australia's newly elected prime minister, promised during her campaign to ''put a price on carbon'' -- in other words, make companies pay in some way for excessive carbon dioxide emissions. But environmentalists say that such laws will be meaningless if the country continues its nascent coal rush and ''exports global warming to the world,'' as one group, Rising Tide Australia, puts it.
This summer an Australian company signed a $60 billion contract with a state enterprise, China Power International Development, to supply coal to Chinese power stations beginning in 2013 from a vast complex of mines, called China First, to be built in the Australian outback. It was Australia's largest export contract ever, the company said.
The deal points to the love-hate relationship many wealthier countries have with coal: while environmental laws have made it progressively harder to build new coal-fired power plants, they do not restrict coal mining to the same extent.
That is partly because emissions accounting standards focus on where a fuel is burned, not where it is dug up; because the coal trade is a lucrative business; and because the labor-intensive mining industry creates jobs.
Such benefits are particularly hard to forgo in the midst of a recession. In the last two years, ''There has been an awful lot of mining development, and much of it is based on the potential of these new markets,'' said David Price, director of the global steam coal advisory service at IHS-Cera, a global energy consultancy.
Vic Svec, senior vice president of Peabody Energy, the world's largest private coal company, said it was ''planning to send larger and larger amounts of coal'' to China.
''Coal is the fastest-growing fuel in the world and will continue to be largely driven by the enormous appetite for energy in Asia,'' he said.
The conflict between environmental and trade concerns is gaining momentum in the United States and Canada as well as Australia.
Last year, the United States exported only 2,714 tons of coal to China, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. Yet that figure soared to 2.9 million tons in the first six months of this year alone -- huge growth, though still a minuscule fraction of China's coal imports.
New mines are planned to expand the market further. Earthjustice, a nonprofit environmental law firm, is suing to block the lease of state-owned land in Otter Creek, Mont., to Arch Coal for mining to serve demand in Asia and elsewhere. Likewise, Peabody Energy and Australia's Ambre Energy have been separately expanding mines and exploring the idea of opening loading ports in the Pacific Northwest.
In Washington State, the Port of Tacoma said Friday that it would not host a proposed coal loading plant, citing ''a multitude of business and community factors.'' This week officials in Cowlitz County are expected to decide whether to grant a permit for a proposed coal port in Longview, on the border with Oregon.
Environmental groups will be there to oppose the port, noting that policies in both states effectively block new coal-fired plants and that both have plans to close the few that remain. ''It's one step forward, 10 steps back if we allow coal export in our region,'' said Brett VandenHeuvel, executive director of the environmental group Columbia Riverkeeper.
Likewise, environmentalists in British Columbia, which enacted the first tax on carbon dioxide emissions in North America two years ago, are incensed that Vancouver has blossomed into a major coal loading location. ''It's just hypocritical,'' said Ben West, a spokesman for the Wilderness Committee, a Canadian conservation group.
This summer, Jim Prentice, who was then Canada's environment minister, announced a national phase-out of dirty coal-fired plants. But mines are primarily regulated by the provinces, said Henry Lau, a spokesman for the ministry. The Canadian government adds that while it is committed to its target of reducing emissions by 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, it has to balance ''environmental and economic benefits for its citizens.''
The growth and shifts in coal exports to China are impressive, flowering even during the recession. Seaborne trade in thermal coal rose to about 690 million tons this year, up from 385 million in 2001.
The price rose to $60 from $40 a ton five years ago to a high of $200 in 2008. Coal delivered to southern China currently sells for $114 per ton.
China, which was a perennial coal exporter until 2009, the first year that it imported more than it sent out, is expected to import up to 150 million tons this year.
The lucrative export trade with China is expected to continue, said Ian Cronshaw, head of the energy diversification division at the International Energy Agency.
Although it has plentiful domestic supplies, China imports coal because much of its own is low grade and contains impurities. Coal from the Powder River Basin of Montana and Wyoming tends to be low in sulfur, for example, allowing power plants to burn more without exceeding local pollution limits.
Additionally, much of China's coal is inland while the factories are on the coast; it is often easier to ship coal from North America, Australia or even South America.
Another emerging customer is India, whose coal imports rose from 36 million tons in 2008 to 60 million tons in 2009, the last full year for which data is available.
In Europe and the United States, coal seems past its prime, with consumption generally down from five years ago because of the recession, environmental laws and a greater reliance on natural gas and renewable energy.
For some economies, China has been a lifesaver. Although Colombia's coal exports collapsed in 2008 when demand in America and Europe plummeted, they revived this year, with 10 million tons going to Asia.
For Australia, coal exports to China grew to $5.6 billion from $508 million between 2008 and 2009, government statistics show. While it still sends more coal to its longtime customers Japan and Korea, that balance could shift as Australian coal giants sink billions into new projects like China First.
''They are betting that there will be great markets for coal in China,'' Mr. Cronshaw said.
BEYOND FOSSIL FUELS: Coal Flows to Growing Asia Articles in this series examine innovative attempts to reduce the world's dependence on coal, oil and other carbon-intensive fuels, and the challenges faced.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Nov. 22 about a surge in coal imports to China misidentified the entity that recently rejected proposals for adding a coal export terminal in the Tacoma, Wash., area. It was the Port of Tacoma, an independent municipal corporation, not the city of Tacoma. The article also misstated the time frame in which the decision not to add a terminal was made. According to a port spokeswoman, officials decided not to pursue terminal proposals advanced by coal companies over a period of several weeks, ending in early November; she said they did not make the decision on Nov. 19. (That was the date on which the port first informed a publication that the terminal would not be built.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mounds of coal awaiting loading onto ships for export at the port of Newcastle, north of Sydney, Australia, in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK ATLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A10) GRAPHICS: A Booming Business, Even as Nations Fret About Emissions: Last year China was among the world's top net coal importers -- a major shift from 2007, when it was among the top net exporters. Australia and Indonesia vastly expanded exports to meet Chinese demand. Still, Japan and South Korea remain the world's top coal importers. (Source: ''Coal Information 2010'' by the International Energy Agency) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (91%); COAL MINING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); COAL MARKETS (78%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (78%); COAL PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); POLITICS (69%)

COMPANY: CHINA POWER INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: 2380 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JULIA GILLARD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%) NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) CHINA (97%); AUSTRALIA (97%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010



784 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
international
AFGHAN VOTING FRAUD CAUGHT ON TAPE
In an election riddled with fraud, an audiotape of conversations between an election worker and a cabinet member is under investigation in the rigging of races in Afghan's parliamentary elections, as officials disqualified 21 more parliamentary candidates. PAGE A6
SUCCESS FOR OBAMA AT NATO 
While President Obama's Asia trip had mixed results, forcing him to leave without the South Korean trade deal he had expected, the consensus with Europeans and Russians at the NATO summit meeting about how to handle Afghanistan and missile defense gave him a more successful sheen -- even if ultimate success, particularly in Afghanistan, remains problematic. PAGE A9
MEETING TO SAVE TIGERS
Ministers from several countries gathered in St. Petersburg at the invitation of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to begin a five-day meeting with the goal of protecting tigers. The animals are so endangered, there are only a little more than 3,000 estimated to be living outside captivity. PAGE A11
ACADEMICS FLEE TO U.S.
Academics are increasingly leaving France for the United States, which carries the risk of a ''brain drain'' in France, according to a report by Institut Montaigne, an independent study group. The group found that academics constitute a much larger percentage of French emigres to the United States today than 30 years ago. PAGE A11
MISSTEPS IN FIRST TRIAL
The International Criminal Court has all the trappings of a weighty institution: 18 judges, a large corps of prosecutors, a multimillion-dollar budget and its own prison. But the young court, based in The Hague, is facing mounting criticism over the handling of its very first case, which may be unraveling. PAGE A12
National
FOR SPEAKER-TO-BE,
Role Models to Avoid
John A. Boehner, the House speaker-elect, is familiar in Washington for his perma-tan, 19th-hole bonhomie and political resilience, but remains a blank slate to most Americans. He is not hurrying to fill it in, having seen his predecessors stumble over a surfeit of attention. The Caucus. PAGE A16
Business
FIGURE WITH TROUBLED PAST
Has Big Plans for PBS Show
In his more than 10 years of distributing video to public television stations, Mykalai Kontilai Kontilai has left a trail of ill will and claims of hundreds of thousands of dollars in unpaid debts. So it surprised many when he and his backers bought one of public broadcasting's crown jewels, the PBS-distributed ''Nightly Business Report.'' PAGE B1
TINKERING WITH KINECT
A crowd of programmers and roboticists are tinkering with Microsoft's Kinect, a video game system that is outfitted with cameras, sensors and software that let it detect movement, and the shape and position of the human body. Microsoft initially made vague threats about working with law enforcement to stop ''product tampering.'' But by last week, it was embracing the benevolent hackers. PAGE B1
NEWSPAPER, BUT NOT IN PRINT
Rupert Murdoch is an old-time newspaper romantic, but has deputized himself as the digital savior of paid content. He is currently leading the charge to build The Daily, an iPad-centered newspaper that is scheduled to appear at the beginning of next year. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
New York
FRATERNITY IS CONVULSED
By Lawsuit Against Leader
Tau Epsilon Phi, a fraternity, founded at Columbia University in 1910, and whose alumni include Dr. Jonas Salk, Benny Goodman, Red Auerbach and George Stephanopoulos has been convulsed by strife and a lawsuit against the national umbrella organization. The lawsuit seeks to remove the national executive director, George Hasenberg, whom it accused of operating the fraternity for his personal gain. PAGE A18
Arts
A WRITER HOLDING FORTH
On Matters Great and Small
Ginia Bellafante writes that ''Public Speaking,'' Martin Scorsese's enormously enjoyable and perceptive documentary about Fran Lebowitz, is a study in the notion that arrogance and insecurity are largely two sides of the same coaster. PAGE C1
HONORING A MENTOR
Alan Gilbert conducted the first of this season's Contact! concerts the New York Philharmonic's contemporary-music series, at Symphony Space. It featured a new work by Magnus Lindberg, the Philharmonic's composer in residence, written in homage to his influential teacher, the French composer Gerard Grisey, who died of a stroke at 52 in 1998. Review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1
A COMPOSER'S SURPRISES
Ben Ratliff writes that Glenn Branca's symphony No. 15 for 12 musicians, performed for the first time on Saturday night at Le Poisson Rouge in Manhattan and subtitled ''Running Through the World Like an Open Razor,'' ran about two-thirds along familiar lines and one-third off the wall. PAGE C7
T. E. Lawrence, Revisited C1
sports
VICK'S NEW CHAPTER BEGAN WITH MCNABB'S ROLE
Donovan McNabb's role in bringing Michael Vick to the Philadelphia Eagles was an act of selflessness not often seen among professional athletes. McNabb lobbied for Vick, even though he had to know that Vick might make him expendable as the team's quarterback. William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. PAGE D6
Tottenham Rallies Past Arsenal D2
Another Win for the Jets D5
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A21
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (87%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (84%); NETWORK TELEVISION (84%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WILD CATS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MAMMALS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



785 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Mired in Crises, Haiti Struggles to Focus on Election

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and DAMIEN CAVE; Randal C. Archibold reported from Port-au-Prince, and Damien Cave from Miami.

 BODY:
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- Crushed buildings from the January earthquake still spill out onto sidewalks here, people are collapsing from cholera at hospital doors and a wave of rioting last week reminded Haitians of political turmoil of the past.
It may not be the best time to choose a president.
''The nation is not in the mood for the election,'' said one candidate, Leslie Voltaire, a former government minister, who, along with other candidates, has suggested that the vote be delayed.
But the election on Sunday may be Haiti's most important in decades. Not only are competing crises demanding attention, but with the country poised to receive billions of dollars in international reconstruction money, the new president will have a historic ability to reshape the country, from its economy to its justice system to deciding where and how to house more than a million earthquake refugees. 
A colorful field of 19 candidates is seeking the highest office in the hemisphere's poorest country, including a professorial former first lady who would be the first woman elected president, a popular entertainer best known for dropping his pants on stage and a taciturn government minister handpicked by the current, increasingly unpopular president.
All but the last have offered forceful criticism of President Rene Preval's response to the earthquake, promising careful, fraud-free management of the aid windfall, although providing few specifics.
For the most part the campaigns have focused on ginning up excitement, plastering brightly colored posters across the devastated capital, blasting catchy Caribbean-beat jingles from trucks and staging large rallies with T-shirt -- and sometimes, money -- giveaways. It was unclear whether the crowds had as much enthusiasm for the candidates as the freebies.
Emicile Bonhomme, 44, has a view from her refugee tent of the crumpled national palace, where hanging on a fence are black and white photos of the 19 contenders vying to occupy it.
She will have none of them, choosing God instead.
''Only God in the sky can do something for us,'' she said. ''Since Jan. 12 we have hoped, but nobody has come for us. Look at this home where we sleep on the ground.''
Distracted and distraught, citizens like Ms. Bonhomme are a large part of why Jose Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organization of American States, says, ''The big problem is to get out the vote.''
''There are a lot of people who left town because of the earthquake,'' he said in an interview. ''There are people afraid of the cholera. There are people angry at the government. There are so many obstacles to getting people to vote.''
A low turnout -- below 40 percent, according to some analysts -- could raise claims that the election was illegitimate. Many people lost their national identification cards, which are required to vote, in the quake, while others fled Port-au-Prince and have not changed their registration.
The government authority that issues the ID cards said it had registered 30,000 more than the 400,000 it anticipated in the last quarter, the cutoff for the election. While some of that surge may be related to tighter banking rules, which also require the card for certain transactions, it may also reflect some electoral excitement.
Widner Saint-Jean, 24, beamed -- ''My heart is pounding,'' he said -- as he was handed a replacement identification card for one he lost in 2005.
''I hope my vote will help reconstruct the country, to change the lives of poor people,'' he said. That would include himself. Like most young people here, Mr. Saint-Jean is unemployed.
To combat the fraud that has marked past elections, several dozen international observers will monitor the balloting. The United States is providing $14 million in election-related aid to help pay for voting supplies, international observers and other needs.
Most candidates and political analysts doubt a clear winner will emerge on Sunday, setting up a runoff for the two leading candidates on Jan. 16 and extending what has been a campaign of careful steps, as candidates have tried to balance a show of concern for the nation's calamities while trying not to appear to be exploiting them.
Charles Henri Baker, an unabashed member of the country's business elite who is running again after losing in 2006, said he had visited cholera wards to deliver supplies and empathize with the sick, not for the cameras.
Another candidate, Marlinde Manigat, the former first lady, recently insisted to an interviewer that a stop at a tent encampment for earthquake refugees was ''just a visit,'' not a campaign event. A campaign commercial for Mr. Voltaire shows long shots of the tent camps, unavoidable, he said, to make the point he would better manage relief.
Getting the electorate to focus on the election and not the country's troubles remains a challenge. The cholera outbreak in particular is reshaping the race. It led to rioting last week, with crowds directing their anger at foreign troops blamed for bringing the disease, and several candidates are struggling to adapt.
Jacques-Edouard Alexis, a former prime minister from Gonaives, one of the areas hardest hit by the epidemic, said he had curtailed campaigning there on the advice of medical professionals (although generally, cholera is not transmitted by casual contact). ''We have to be careful with big rallies,'' he said.
Ms. Manigat described a recent stop at a hospital with her entourage in which she decided not to enter the main treatment room for cholera patients. ''I would not mind, but it is not appropriate to get 20 people in the room -- for what?'' she said. ''I waved at the door. They were happy to see me.''
Polling here is considered sketchy, but the local news media have focused their attention on a handful of candidates.
They include Ms. Manigat; Jude Celestin, Mr. Preval's preferred successor; and Michel Martelly, a kompa singer formerly known as Sweet Micky who draws large crowds and is banking on votes that might have gone to Wyclef Jean, the Haitian-American pop star who was barred from running by the country's electoral commission.
Mr. Martelly, though, has struggled to explain away his penchant for dropping his pants on stage and why he should be taken seriously.
''I agree I am a novice in politics, not a politician,'' he said in a late-night interview during an impromptu tour through a notorious slum, hoping to prove he was welcome there. ''But I am proud I am not one.''
Even the establishment candidates promote themselves as outsiders.
Mr. Baker, the businessman, said he would bring order and discipline, even the return of the disbanded, once-feared army, to a country lacking one. ''I am part of the elite but I am also someone who creates jobs,'' he said.
Several candidates said privately that they believed the international community was awaiting the outcome of the election before committing to more aid.
American aid to the reconstruction effort was hung up in Congress for months until the delivery of $120 million this month, about a tenth of what was pledged to the Haiti Reconstruction Fund, and several other countries were also slow in delivering aid.
The candidates have not criticized those countries, focusing instead on Mr. Preval, who is completing a second term and barred from running for another.
They also promise to wean the country off the influence of the myriad nongovernmental organizations that function here as almost a shadow government.
''Relative to presidents of the past, this president is going to have an enormous opportunity with significant resources,'' said Mark L. Schneider, a Haiti expert at the International Crisis Group. ''The challenges are mind boggling; you have to reconstruct the government. This isn't just rebuilding infrastructure, it's rebuilding whole institutions.''
It remains to be seen how much the voters are buying. Haitians, analysts said, tend to make their choices at the last minute.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People waited outside an office in Port-au-Prince for a chance to pick up national ID cards, which are required for voting in Sunday's presidential election.
Campaigns have focused on raising excitement, putting posters across the quake-devastated capital. Some have suggested that the vote be delayed. (A4)
Posters for Michel Martelly, one of 19 presidential candidates in Haiti, cover a wall in Petionville, outside Port-au-Prince. If no clear winner emerges on Sunday, a runoff will be held in January.
 Mr. Martelly having makeup applied before a recent national television interview at his home. At right, a truck playing dance music and campaign songs in support of the current president's preferred successor, Jude Celestin, driving through Port-au-Prince. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RIOTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); REFUGEES (74%)

PERSON: MICHEL MARTELLY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



786 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, a Little Help From His Friends

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As administration officials said farewell to one another upon returning from a two-day summit in Lisbon on Saturday night, they all but exchanged high-fives. The sense of success went to the top: President Obama, shirt-sleeved and smiling, made a rare, brief visit to the press cabin as Air Force One headed home.
''No more summits!'' he said jokingly, having only recently returned from a 10-day diplomatic tour across Asia.
Yet while that Asia trip had mixed results, forcing Mr. Obama to leave without the South Korean trade deal he had expected, the consensus with Europeans and Russians at the NATO summit in Lisbon about how to handle Afghanistan and missile defense gave him a more successful sheen -- even if ultimate success, particularly in Afghanistan, remains problematic. 
Mr. Obama was able to lead on a world stage in a way that he has not been able to do lately at home. He did so with public and private assistance from his European and Russian counterparts, many of whom called the summit meeting historic. Acutely aware of his problems at home after the drubbing Democrats took in the midterm elections -- most manifest in Senate Republicans' resistance to the New Start nuclear arms reduction treaty with Russia -- the other leaders seemed almost to go out of their way to buoy Mr. Obama.
Their help was not merely volunteered; administration officials actively sought it. ''Throughout the summit, there was intense lobbying by the administration to win support for the ratification process,'' said the Czech defense minister, Alexandr Vondra.
And while a two-hour gathering with the European Union was a footnote to the weekend NATO summit meeting that preceded it, the leaders there likewise hailed their exchanges over economic and security concerns.
''I have been to many summits,'' the European Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, said afterward, but Lisbon was more ''intimate, informal'' and ''a real exchange about the priorities'' instead of mere note-reading -- and he gave credit to Mr. Obama.
In the end, then, the more common diplomatic dynamic was flipped: Instead of foreign leaders taking advantage of a weakened counterpart, they rallied to his aid -- for their own interests as much as Mr. Obama's, given the economic and military stakes.
In particular, they gave Mr. Obama ammunition in his Senate battle for the New Start treaty. He collected a series of supportive statements from European leaders -- from Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to leaders of former Soviet bloc nations, who remain deeply suspicious of Russia and wary of Mr. Obama's ''reset'' policy for warmer relations with Russia.
At a news conference after the NATO session, Mr. Obama said, ''Unprompted, I have received overwhelming support from our allies here that Start -- the New Start treaty -- is a critical component to U.S. and European security.''
The endorsers, he added, include ''those who live right next to Russia, who used to live behind the Iron Curtain, who have the most cause for concern with respect to Russian intentions and who have uniformly said that they will feel safer and more secure if this treaty gets ratified.''
Like the Eastern Europeans, NATO leaders more broadly agreed, in effect, that the Mr. Obama's ''reset'' relationship with Russia had enabled a parallel reset of their own ties with the former Communist bloc leader. The NATO-Russia Council meeting was the first since Russia went to war with Georgia to its south in 2008.
Mr. Obama also made progress drawing Russia into cooperating with, rather than opposing, a new missile defense network in Europe aimed at countering any future threat from Iran. The White House hopes that Russian cooperation could undercut the argument of conservative critics of New Start that the treaty would crimp missile defense plans.
As some Europeans saw it, President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia also seemed to respond to Mr. Obama's tenuous position at home. Administration officials said that as recently as three weeks ago it was not clear Mr. Medvedev would come, and that days before Lisbon, there was no agreement on a joint statement to issue.
When Mr. Obama had to leave the NATO-Russia meeting for a separately scheduled meeting with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, he had advisers set up a private talk with Mr. Medvedev -- no aides, just one translator.
An official to whom Mr. Obama described their conversation afterward, and who would speak only on the condition of anonymity under White House rules, said it was ''very cordial'' though Mr. Obama raised their differences over Georgia. As for New Start's ratification, Mr. Medvedev expressed confidence ''in the president getting it done,'' the official said.
At the summit meeting, Mr. Medvedev also agreed to pursue cooperation with the European-based missile shield under NATO, starting with a study by next summer of the overlap between the technologies of the two sides and how they might be linked.
Whether that leads to a joint system remains unclear. President George W. Bush and then-President Vladimir V. Putin, now Russia's prime minister and still its paramount leader, talked for years about the possibility of cooperating on a missile defense system without tangible result.
Mr. Obama reformulated Mr. Bush's version of missile defense last year in a way that the Russians perceived as less threatening to their nuclear deterrent. They still harbor reservations, however, and have threatened to withdraw from New Start if they perceive a danger to Russia. Some Republicans have accused Mr. Obama of undercutting the missile defense plan and point to the Russian threat as evidence that the treaty could lead to limitations.
Russia and NATO agreed to resume theater missile defense exercises that were suspended after the Georgia war. And Russia agreed to allow the NATO-led coalition in Afghanistan to ship more nonlethal supplies through its territory, and to help maintain helicopters used there.
Given Russian commitments, including its support for sanctions against Iran and its cancellation of anti-aircraft missile sales to Tehran, Mr. Obama argued that the United States must reciprocate.
Mr. Medvedev ''has made every effort to move Russia in the right direction,'' Mr. Obama said at his news conference. ''And so if you agree with me on that front, then it's also important that we don't leave a partner hanging after having negotiated an agreement like this that's good for both countries.''
The administration kept up the pressure on Republicans on Sunday. Mr. Obama sent out messages on his Twitter account promoting the treaty while officials fanned out to the talk shows.
Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on ''This Week'' on ABC that he was ''completely comfortable with where we are militarily -- myself, the rest of the uniformed leadership, as well as the secretary of defense. The verification regime that exists in this is in ways better than the one that has existed in the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in Lisbon, flanked by Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the secretary general of NATO, and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain. Mr. Obama was buoyed by the meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); LOBBYING (74%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (59%); DAVID CAMERON (57%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (51%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



787 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) LENNONYC Using unreleased recordings, rare concert footage and an emotional interview with Yoko Ono, ''American Masters'' chronicles the time John Lennon spent in New York City. The story begins with Lennon's arrival in 1971, as he sought freedom from his persona as a Beatle and escape from the public scorn he and Ms. Ono, above in the 1970s, faced in London. It continues with his persecution by the Nixon administration, which used the F.B.I. and the Immigration and Naturalization Service to tap his phone and put him under 24-hour surveillance with the purpose of deporting him; the 18 months after Ms. Ono had kicked him out of their apartment in the Dakota in Manhattan; and his return, after a five-year hiatus, to the recording studio in 1980, a few months before he was killed.
9 A.M. (FOX NEWS CHANNEL) AMERICA'S NEWSROOM Martha MacCallum interviews David Axelrod, White House senior adviser, and his wife, Susan, about the epilepsy of their daughter, Lauren, and their foundation, Citizens United for Research in Epilepsy. Ms. MacCallum also visits Lauren at Misericordia, a Chicago home and school for the developmentally disabled, which Mr. Axelrod credits with making his daughter happy, productive and independent. 
4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOW Ms. Winfrey shares more of her favorite things; Josh Groban, right, and Johnny Mathis perform.
8 P.M. (13, 49) ANTIQUES ROADSHOW The 14th fall season begins with ''Simply the Best,'' showcasing objects considered the finest examples of their kind to be seen on the series. The list includes two Massachusetts Federal side chairs from around 1795, valued between $30,000 and $50,000; a rare 19th-century Rhode Island rifle and powder horn ($100,000 to $120,000); and a classic, sought-after poster from the American women's suffrage movement ($10,000 to $15,000).
8 P.M. (Sundance) THE SHOCK DOCTRINE (2009) Mat Whitecross and Michael Winterbottom (''The Road to Guantanamo'') draw on a best-selling book by Naomi Klein to examine the free-market, antiregulation form of capitalism espoused by the economist Milton Friedman at the University of Chicago. They also look at what happened when governments in Chile, Britain and Russia put those theories into practice.
8 P.M. (ABC) DANCING WITH THE STARS In the season's penultimate episode, the final three couples -- Jennifer Grey and Derek Hough, Kyle Massey and Lacey Schwimmer, and Bristol Palin and Mark Ballas -- have their last chance to impress judges and viewers in two dances: one previously performed and rechoreographed, the other a freestyle presentation. (The mirror-ball trophy will be presented to the winner during the two-hour finale at 9 on Tuesday.) At 9:11, six celebrities -- the actors Rebecca Budig, Brandon Mychal Smith and Sean Young; the reality-show fixture Bethenny Frankel; the Olympic skier Jonny Moseley; and Vince Neil, the Motley Crue frontman -- take to the ice with the help of professional skaters in the premiere of ''Skating With the Stars.''
8 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE A man (Kuno Becker) arrives at Princeton-Plainsboro when he becomes ill after re-enacting the Crucifixion. In ''Lie to Me,'' at 9, Cal (Tim Roth) stumbles upon a deadly secret when he helps a woman with early onset Alzheimer's (Annette O'Toole).
9 P.M. (History) THE REAL STORY OF THANKSGIVING In 1621 settlers at the Plymouth Colony shared a three-day autumn harvest feast with Wampanoag Indians on what is commonly thought of as the first Thanksgiving celebration in this country. But it wasn't until 1863, during the Civil War, that President Abraham Lincoln proclaimed the fourth Thursday of November a holiday.
9 P.M. (HBO) IN TREATMENT Sunil (Irrfan Khan), who has grown unsettled by the relationship between his daughter-in-law and an author, gives Paul (Gabriel Byrne) cause to worry with his account of a violent dream. At 9:30 Frances (Debra Winger) accuses Paul of being overly sympathetic to her sister.
9 P.M. (CNN) LARRY KING LIVE Mr. King interviews the first President George Bush and his wife, Barbara.
9 P.M. (TLC) CAKE BOSS Carlo's Bakery celebrates its 100th anniversary with a block party starring -- what else? -- an enormous cake. At 10 ''Fabulous Cakes'' begins its second season by visiting three bakeries in Las Vegas, where a 500-pound cake pays tribute to Buzz Aldrin's Moon landing while others recreate the Vegas Strip and a fairy-tale castle. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN ROSS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); IMMIGRATION (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DANCE (75%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (72%); WIRETAPPING (70%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (70%); EPILEPSY (67%); WOMEN (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (51%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (70%); DAVID AXELROD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



788 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Leaders Postpone Formation of New Government

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY and YASIR GHAZI

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Iraq's leaders met Sunday for only the fourth time since being elected in March and delayed for at least several more days the formation of a new government. 
The postponement gave Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and his rivals in the fractious Parliament additional time to haggle over control of the country's ministries, which offer rich sources of patronage and power.
Although government operations have continued during the eight months since the election, the price of the stalemate is being felt on the streets, as evidenced by a statement on Sunday by Osama al-Najafi, the new speaker of Parliament, that said he had received a letter from the government admitting it no longer had enough money to make welfare payments to widows, the unemployed and other needy Iraqis.
He said Iraq would not be able to resume that aid until a new budget was passed.
Some lawmakers called for an investigation into the shortage of money; others said they were not surprised to learn that the well was dry.
''It's expected,'' said Ayad al-Samarrai, a former speaker of Parliament. ''When Parliament is delayed for all these months, it also stops monitoring the government and holding them accountable.''
Less than two weeks ago, Iraqi leaders announced a power-sharing deal to fold the country's major ethnic and religious factions into a fragile unity government led by Mr. Maliki, a religious Shiite who took office in 2006 and presided over an ebb in bloodshed.
The latest delay seems to be centered on an obscure parliamentary question: When will President Jalal Talabani, whom Parliament re-elected on Nov. 11, formally ask Mr. Maliki to form a government?
Mr. Talabani appeared to have all but done so more than a week ago, naming Mr. Maliki to a second term a day after the power-sharing deal was announced.
Under Iraq's sometimes malleable Constitution, Mr. Maliki has 30 days to pick his ministers once he is designated as prime minister. But Iraq's leaders said that Mr. Talabani had not yet formally done so, and would probably not do so until Thursday.
The two men did see each other on Sunday night, however, for a meeting in which Mr. Maliki congratulated Mr. Talabani on his re-election, ''wishing success to the president in his duties during the next four years.''
Also on Sunday, the United States military reported that an American soldier was killed by small-arms fire in the country's north while on an operation advising Iraqi forces. The soldier, whose name was not released, was the third American to be killed by enemy fire since the United States formally ended combat operations at the end of August.
About 49,700 American service members are deployed in Iraq. They are scheduled to withdraw completely by the end of 2011.
In the violent northern city of Mosul, gunmen on Sunday stormed the home of a television reporter, Mazin Mardan, and shot him to death, the police said. More than 140 journalists have been killed in Iraq since the war began in 2003, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); RELIGION (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); JALAL TALABANI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



789 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: THE CAUCUS; For Speaker-to-Be, Role Models to Avoid

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Thanksgiving week has temporarily stilled the capital's transition of power. For the incoming House speaker, John A. Boehner, that is just fine.
Mr. Boehner, an Ohio Republican who is so familiar in Washington for his perma-tan, 19th-hole bonhomie and political resilience, remains a blank slate to most Americans. He is not hurrying to fill it in, having seen his predecessors stumble over a surfeit of attention.
''He just needs to be calm, purposeful, focused and methodical,'' said former Speaker Newt Gingrich, who learned that the hard way. After leading the 1994 insurgency that gave Republicans the House for the first time in 40 years, Mr. Gingrich became such a high-profile target that he abandoned the job four years later, even as his party retained the majority. 
''I had no idea of the scale of the jump from minority whip to speaker,'' Mr. Gingrich recalled, comparing it to an actor's leap from Broadway plays to major motion pictures. ''Every gesture is magnified tremendously.''
Nor is Mr. Gingrich the only example of the dangers. For different reasons, Speaker Nancy Pelosi became, to many swing voters this year, the unwelcome face of the Democratic majority.
That is all the more reason for Mr. Boehner, six weeks from taking the speaker's gavel, to avoid standing out too much too soon. He declined an interview for this article.
Potentially Volatile
In some ways, Mr. Boehner is less vulnerable than either of those lightning-rod predecessors to becoming branded in an unflattering way.
Mr. Gingrich's deliberately provocative style and intellectual intensity made him a magnet for opposition attacks; so does Ms. Pelosi's profile as a wealthy, stylish woman from the liberal bastion of San Francisco.
Mr. Boehner, the second of 12 children of a Cincinnati bar owner, blends in more unobtrusively. ''The most important thing for him is that he's solid,'' said Don Fierce, a veteran Republican strategist and lobbyist. ''He's not image driven.''
But he lacks the grip on his party's caucus that Mr. Gingrich enjoyed immediately after the ''Republican Revolution.'' He was dumped from the leadership by disgruntled Republicans once, in 1998, and in January will sit atop a potentially volatile mix of orthodox veterans and Tea Party enthusiasts.
His task is comparatively easy during the current lame-duck session of Congress. With Ms. Pelosi running the House, Senate Republicans will play the pivotal role in resolving near-term battles over stop-gap government financing and the fate of the Bush tax cuts.
But soon the choices become more difficult - and Mr. Boehner's leadership will take on greater definition.
President Obama has asked Congress for $50 billion in new infrastructure spending to spur economic growth. ''I'll work with him,'' said Representative John L. Mica, a Florida Republican who is scheduled to become the House Transportation Committee chairman.
But the Republican leadership reacted coolly to Mr. Mica's attempt to work with majority Democrats on transportation legislation in the current Congress. And incoming Republican freshmen expect Mr. Boehner to embrace their unequivocal emphasis on cutting spending.
''We have to do things the right way, even though it's going to hurt,'' said Michael Grimm, a representative-elect from New York's 13th District. Of Mr. Boehner, Mr. Grimm added, ''Now he has the invigoration, if you will, of a very excited freshman class that has heard the will of the people.''
Finding a Balance
Mr. Boehner's toughest choices will come in balancing confrontation and cooperation with a Democratic president. Mr. Gingrich's best-remembered mistake came when Congressional Republicans got that balance wrong in a government shutdown that ultimately benefited President Bill Clinton.
Mr. Boehner threw down a public marker last week in cautioning that Republicans must act ''as adults'' when Congress considers increasing the federal debt limit early next year. Next week, he will begin the next phase of his private dialogue with Mr. Obama when he and the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, visit the White House.
But do not expect Mr. Boehner to hog the spotlight or match the frenetic pace Mr. Gingrich set 16 years ago. Aside from his personal style, his measured approach reflects the looming challenge of reconciling campaign calls for spending cuts with the popularity of many specific federal programs.
''They need to slow the dialogue down a bit,'' said the longtime Gingrich adviser Joe Gaylord, ''so they can show the American people what it is they're doing and why they're doing it.''
In that process, added Scott Reed, a veteran Republican lobbyist, Mr. Boehner must ''not be overexposed'' as Mr. Gingrich was. The former speaker, who is now pondering a 2012 presidential bid, sees two reasons that maintaining a relatively low profile should not be hard for his former colleague.
''That's who he is as a person,'' Mr. Gingrich observed. Moreover, ''John got to see what I did wrong, and my mistakes. He was there.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (77%); THEATER (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); VETERANS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (60%); TAX LAW (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010



790 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Our Constitutional Court

 BODY:
The Supreme Court ruling in the Citizens United case ranks with the woeful economy, the Tea Party and other forces that brought about tumultuous change in the recent elections. The case may prove more significant in the evolution of the court's role in American law. 
The ruling is the most dramatic recent example of how differently this court is functioning compared with its predecessors -- and how the distance between it and them seems to be growing. With rare exceptions, the court gets to choose the cases it wants to hear. Over the past generation, it has whittled its docket by about half, leaving appeals courts as the courts of last resort in all but a tiny fraction of federal cases.
The Supreme Court continues to address cases where the decision turns on the intricate interpretation of a single word in a statute or regulation. But increasingly the cases that most engage the justices and that matter most to the court are about interpreting the Constitution and its allocation of power.
In Citizens United, in which the court unleashed corporate, union and other money into electoral politics, the majority overturned a century of precedent that it had twice recently reaffirmed. It did so by moving past the limited controversy that was actually in the case and deciding a sweeping issue of constitutional law that no party had raised for the justices to consider.
It also inserted itself where the court has said it should be most restrained, deferring to other branches with more competence to decide questions about the workings of politics, including about the role of money.
In a speech to the American Law Institute, Seth Waxman, a former solicitor general during the Clinton administration, explained how this lack of ''procedural judicial modesty'' defied what has long been considered essential to Supreme Court practice. Especially in cases involving established precedent or an act of Congress, Mr. Waxman summarized, justices should act ''on the narrowest possible grounds and only to the extent absolutely required.''
He provided other examples in which, to less fanfare, the court has recently decided much broader questions than those presented to it. They included the overturning of a 23-year-old precedent on the right to counsel and a 20-year-old precedent on age discrimination.
As the final arbiter of the Constitution's meaning, Mr. Waxman noted, the Supreme Court has ''awesome power.'' Citizens United shows that the current court is using its power with more latitude than any in memory.
It is doing so to rewrite the terms it uses to fulfill the constitutional mission of limiting each branch of government. Redefining itself as a constitutional court, this court seems limited only by limits it opts to recognize.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LAWYERS (75%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (74%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



791 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: A Dim View Of Betting On Start-Ups

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
''There's too much money chasing too few deals.''
Sean Parker, the entrepreneur behind Napster and Facebook now turned investor, was talking about the state of the venture capital industry last week over coffee. At 30, Mr. Parker, who was recently portrayed by Justin Timberlake in ''The Social Network,'' has been thinking a lot about innovation - or the lack of it - in the United States. And he's come to a depressing conclusion about the money industry that he says used to be ''the engine of innovation'' for this country.
''The risk-reward doesn't work out in favor of putting money into venture capital anymore,'' he said, even though he himself is a partner in a venture capital firm that owns stakes in Facebook and SpaceX, the private spaceflight company run by Elon Musk, a co-founder of PayPal. Mr. Parker, a night owl who had awakened before his usual rising time of noon to meet with me, the problem plaguing the venture business represented a ''systemic risk'' to the country that he believed meant ''innovation could gradually grind to a halt or at least become less effective.'' 
Mr. Parker may tend toward hyperbole, but ever since the bursting of the dot-com bubble, there has been a steady drumbeat of ''venture capital is dead.'' In the last year, however, that drumbeat has gotten louder as it has become clear that many of the best-known venture firms in Silicon Valley and elsewhere have returned a pittance to their investors.
According to the Cambridge Associates U.S. Venture Capital Index, venture capital retuned a paltry 8.4 percent return to investors over the last decade, starting in 1999. Ernst & Young reported last month that venture capital investing had fallen off a cliff this year, down 47 percent in the first half of the year compared with the same period a year earlier.
''You'll see big old established firms that everybody thought were here to stay probably splintering,'' said Mr. Parker. That's in part because he is convinced that the industry's biggest backers - institutional investors - are going to seek a haven elsewhere. ''I can't name names but certain large university endowments have lost as much as half of their value,'' Mr. Parker said.
For every Facebook, there are dozens of start-ups that never make it. That's the model - it is all about swinging for the fences. Even Facebook, still private, having not pursued an initial public offering, has yet to see the big payoff for its largest investors.
One of the problems often cited for the depressing venture capital world is the perception of a tight market for I.P.O.'s. Bill Gurley, a partner at Benchmark Capital, which was an early investor in eBay and OpenTable.com, says he believes exaggerated expectations are the problem.
''We may also have a perturbed notion of what a healthy I.P.O. market looks like,'' he wrote last week on his blog. ''The I.P.O. market of 1999 was a myth, a facade, a once-in-a-lifetime mirage that you will never see again.''
That the I.P.O. market is dead may also be a myth, however. It may just be Silicon Valley. Only 11 of the 42 high-tech, venture-backed I.P.O.'s since 2008 came from Silicon Valley. As Mr. Gurley pointed out, ''In other words, 74 percent of these I.P.O.'s hail from outside of the S.V. echo chamber.''
Silicon Valley's latest, greatest hope - clean tech and green tech - also seems to be failing despite big investments from the likes of John Doerr of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Vinod Khosla, a former Kleiner partner.
''It is not clear anyone will make money on their green-tech investing. It looks like it was a bubble, '' Mr. Parker said.
But worst of all, from the standpoint of innovation, entrepreneurs may be changing the way they are thinking - they are becoming less ambitious.
''Ten years ago, venture capitalists would ask the question: Do you want to build a company and flip it or do you want to build a company and I.P.O. it? It's a trick question. The correct answer was always 'I want to build an incredibly valuable stand-alone business and maybe we get bought, maybe we go public but we're going to build an incredibly valuable company,' '' Mr. Parker said. ''Now it's actually not clear that that's the right answer. There's a lot of venture firms that are clearly interested in building something and selling it either to Facebook, Google, Microsoft.''
That's not to say Mr. Parker is all doom and gloom. His firm may actually have another venture capital-backed winner on its hands in Spotify, an online music service that some analysts suggest could one day challenge Apple's iTunes. But before you get too excited about great leaps in innovation in the United States, consider this: Mr. Parker didn't discover Spotify in his backyard. It was founded in Stockholm.
Given his own status as a rock star entrepreneur, just how did Mr. Parker feel about Justin Timberlake's portrayal of him in the ''The Social Network?''
Pausing for a moment, Mr. Parker reflected: ''It's hard to complain about being played by a sex symbol.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sean Parker said venture firms were interested in investing in companies that they could sell to Google or Microsoft. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (72%); ENDOWMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); PAYPAL INC (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



792 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Campus That Apartheid Ruled Faces Affirmative Action Rift

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
CAPE TOWN -- The University of Cape Town was once a citadel of white privilege on the majestic slopes of Devil's Peak. At the height of apartheid, it admitted few black or mixed-race students, and they were barred from campus dormitories, even forbidden to attend medical school postmortems on white corpses.
South Africa's finest university is now resplendently multiracial. But it is also engaged in a searching debate about just how far affirmative action should go to heal the wounds of an oppressive history, echoing similar conflicts in the United States, where half a dozen states have banned the use of racial preferences in admissions to public universities.
''Are we here because we're black or are we here because we're intelligent?'' asked Sam Mgobozi, 19, a middle-class black student who attended a first-rate high school in Durban and finds affirmative action offensive, even as he concedes that poor black applicants may still need it. 
The University of Cape Town was supposed to have settled this debate last year when its professors -- 70 percent of them white men -- supported a policy that gave admissions preferences based on apartheid racial categories to black, mixed-race and Indian students.
Instead, unease with the current approach has spilled out over the past year in fierce exchanges on newspaper editorial pages and formal debating platforms. Sixteen years after the political ascent of the black majority, the university's dilemma resonates across a society conflicted about how best to achieve racial redress, whether in corporate board rooms or classrooms.
Prof. Neville Alexander, a Marxist sociologist who was classified as mixed race under apartheid, has roused the campus debate with the charge that affirmative action betrays the ideals of nonracialism that so many fought and died for during the long struggle against apartheid. Professor Alexander, who spent a decade imprisoned on Robben Island with Nelson Mandela, insists that the University of Cape Town, which is public, must resist pressure from the government to use racial benchmarks in determining how well the university is performing. ''The government under apartheid did the same and we told them to go to hell,'' he said in one standing-room-only campus debate.
Affirmative action's champion on campus is Max Price, the vice chancellor, who was himself detained as an anti-apartheid student activist in the mid-1970s. Dr. Price, who grew up as a child of white privilege, contends that preferences based on apartheid's racial classifications provide a means to help those harmed by that system to gain critical educational opportunities.
The university has an openly stated policy of admitting blacks who have substantially lower test scores than whites, but whites still outnumber blacks almost two to one -- 45 percent versus 25 percent -- among the 20,500 South African students at the university. In South Africa, 79 percent of the population is black and only 9 percent is white.
And even with extensive programs of compensatory instruction on campus to help disadvantaged students, just over half of the black students graduated in five years in recent years, while four out of five whites completed their educations in that time, university statistics show. ''We're getting the best here and the best is struggling,'' said a deputy vice chancellor, Crain Soudien.
The situation is even bleaker in higher education across the country. In engineering, law, the sciences and business management, only about a third or fewer of black students manage to get a degree in five years, researchers have found. The country's efforts to produce black professionals remain crippled by failing public high schools in impoverished rural areas and black townships that the post-apartheid government has proved unable to fix.
Social class is another complicating factor. There are wide disparities in income between white and black South Africans, but also among blacks. The job market rewards graduates of top universities -- black and white -- while punishing the ill-educated, who are overwhelmingly black.
Students and professors here ask whether children of the emerging black middle and upper classes should continue to get the same break on admissions as impoverished black students. The university is developing nonracial measures of disadvantage -- for example, whether applicants' parents went to a university, or the quality of the high schools the students themselves attended.
But the university now only has enough staff to base its admissions decisions for most students on their scores on a national subject-based examination for high school seniors and their apartheid racial classifications.
Even when reliable proxies for socio-economic disadvantage are developed, Dr. Price contends, race should still be considered. He estimated that about half of the most privileged black applicants would not make the cut without racial preferences. In such a situation, he said, whites would dominate the top ranks of the class, while many disadvantaged blacks struggled with failure, reinforcing stereotypes.
Even in the most prosperous black families, he said, parents often attended inferior schools and their children do not perform as well on the national high school exam as white students whose families have been university educated for generations.
But Prof. Andre du Toit, who taught generations of students here the history of South African political thought, disagreed, saying the central question about what he called the university's ''elitist version of race-based affirmative action'' is whether it will reproduce an elitist society.
In ''The Next 25 Years,'' a new book of essays on affirmative action by South African and American scholars, Professor du Toit writes that as black applicants increasingly come from the best high schools and well-off families, affirmative action will provide ''an ideological justification for privileging established black elite groups, at the expense of the African majority.''
On a recent afternoon, students sat in the sun on stairs that spill down Devil's Peak from Jameson Hall. They seemed to be a multiracial realization of Mr. Mandela's rainbow nation -- and in many ways they were.
But on a campus where township students worry about whether their families have enough to eat while rich students ride around in new sports cars, many also sat in clusters divided not only by race, but by wealth.
''The coolest kids on the U.C.T. campus are divided in two, the black elite and the white elite,'' said Mr. Mgobozi, the son of a corporate sales manager and former high school English teacher.
Like other prosperous black students interviewed here, Mr. Mgobozi is deeply ambivalent about affirmative action. He said he would have gotten in without it, and explains, ''Black students work extremely hard just to prove we are here on the same merits as our white counterparts.''
The most eloquent advocates for racial preferences are students from profoundly deprived backgrounds. Without affirmative action, Lwando Mpotulo, 23, would never have been admitted to study for a medical degree here. His mother died when he was 15 and his father was unemployed most of his childhood. He went to high school in Khayelitsha, a sprawling black township of half a million people, 15 miles and a world apart from the wealthy heart of Cape Town. Mr. Mpotulo lived there in a tiny, rundown house that often had no electricity.
His scores on the national high school exam -- C's in science, biology and English, a B in math and an A in Xhosa, his mother tongue -- were much lower than the A's white students are generally required to attain, but an extraordinary achievement in a township where very few qualify for university admission.
Mr. Mpotulo was in Cape Town when he got the news of his admission and, overjoyed, ran to the medical school campus. But his first two years were ones of humiliating failure. ''I felt much more smaller,'' he said sadly. He had never had a white teacher before and even his high school English teacher had often spoken Xhosa in class.
But the university provided him with extensive, specialized instruction tailored for struggling students and weekly counseling sessions. Mr. Mpotulo also dug deep into himself. He recently sketched the family tree of relatives depending on him.
''These are the people I worry about,'' he said gravely. ''I have to somehow find success. If I give up, there will literally be no one employed at home.''
Mr. Mpotulo is now confident he will graduate from medical school, though it will take eight years instead of the standard six. He is considering a career in public health. He believes his mother's death, of a stroke in her 30s, could have been prevented if she had gotten decent medical care.
In his own difficult life experience, he said, the legacy of centuries of white domination lives on.
''I sympathize with a white student, doing very well, who can't become a student here because of affirmative action,'' he said, ''but I think it's an absolutely necessary evil.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students relaxed on the steps of Jameson Hall at the University of Cape Town. It is engaged in a debate over affirmative action.
 Without affirmative action, Lwando Mpotulo, 23, center, would never have been admitted to study medicine at the university. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PER-ANDERS PETTERSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); AUTOPSIES (72%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (72%); SOCIOLOGY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (91%) SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



793 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3864 words

HEADLINE: THE RADIATION BOOM; Radiation Worries Rise With 3-D Dental Images

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH and JO CRAVEN McGINTY; Sarah E. Fitzpatrick and Kristina Rebelo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Because children and adolescents are particularly vulnerable to radiation, doctors three years ago mounted a national campaign to protect them by reducing diagnostic radiation to only those levels seen as absolutely necessary.
It is a message that has resonated in many clinics and hospitals. Yet there is one busy place where it has not: the dental office.
Not only do most dentists continue to use outmoded X-ray film requiring higher amounts of radiation, but orthodontists and other specialists are embracing a new scanning device that emits significantly more radiation than conventional methods, an examination by The New York Times has found.
Designed for dental offices, the device, called a cone-beam CT scanner, provides brilliant 3-D images of teeth, roots, jaw and even skull. This technology, its promoters say, is a safe way for orthodontists and oral surgeons to work with more precision and to identify problems that otherwise might go unnoticed. 
But there is little independent research to validate these claims. Instead, the cone beam's popularity has been fueled in part by misinformation about its safety and efficacy, some of it coming from dentists paid or sponsored by manufacturers to give speeches, seminars and continuing education classes, as well as by industry-sponsored magazines and conferences, according to records and dozens of interviews with dentists and researchers.
Last month, The Journal of the American Dental Association allowed one of the leading cone-beam manufacturers, Imaging Sciences International, to underwrite an issue devoted entirely to cone-beam technology. That magazine, which the association sent to 150,000 dentists, included a favorable article by an author who has equated a cone-beam CT with an airport scan. In fact, a cone beam can produce hundreds of times more radiation, experts say.
Cone-beam CT scans can help dentists deal with complex cases involving implants, impacted teeth and other serious problems. But many experts in dental radiation have raised alarms about what they see as their indiscriminate use. They worry that with few guidelines or regulations, well-meaning orthodontists and other specialists are turning to a new technology they do not fully understand, putting patients at risk, particularly younger ones.
Some orthodontists now use cone-beam CT scans to screen all patients, even though a number of dental groups in this country and in Europe have questioned whether the benefit of routine use justifies the added risk.
''All these different cone-beam CT scanners came out to a world that was unprepared,'' said Keith Horner, a professor of oral radiology at the University of Manchester in Britain, who is coordinating a study of cone-beam scanners for the European Commission. ''They are just pushed out there by manufacturers with the message that a 3-D image is always going to be better than a 2-D image, and that isn't the case.''
One popular new brand of braces has helped cone-beam sales because it requires 3-D images, which doctors can obtain using either a cone-beam scanner with radiation, or a digital camera without it. Many orthodontists opt for radiation, because it is quicker.
Even those troubled by the widening use of cone-beam technology acknowledge that by itself, the risk from a single scan is relatively small. But patients often get more than one scan, and the lifetime risk increases with each exposure. Without a clear benefit, they say, there is only risk.
''So let me ask a question to the mother of a prospective orthodontic patient,'' said Dr. Stuart C. White, former chairman of oral radiology at the UCLA School of Dentistry. ''Would you like me to use a tool that is entirely safe -- a camera -- to record the position of your child's teeth, or another method that may rarely cause cancer so that we can save time?''
The cone-beam business is lucrative for manufacturers and dentists. According to one industry estimate, more than 3,000 scanners and about 30 different models have been sold, at prices up to $250,000.
Dentists, some of whom charge several hundred dollars per scan, can profit by owning their own machines. ''More profit per unit chair time,'' promises Imaging Sciences, the cone-beam manufacturer.
Marketers increase interest in the technology by holding drawings for free cone-beam CT scanners and other gifts. A Washington State orthodontist, who gave an online lecture sponsored by Imaging Sciences, offers dentists coupons for free scans for their patients as a way to build referrals.
And then there is the ''wow'' factor, said Dr. Terry Sellke, an orthodontist in Illinois.
''Kids love to see that 3-D image,'' Dr. Sellke said in a Webcast sponsored by Imaging Sciences. ''They can go into our computer and look at their skull.'' Another orthodontist talked about coloring 3-D skulls in green and purple. ''Fun for the kids,'' he said.
Dr. Allan G. Farman, president of the American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, cautions doctors not to become overly enamored of the new technology, citing the example of how shoe stores once took X-rays of customers' feet to see if shoes fit.
''At least the shoe merchants were ignorant of the effects of radiation,'' Dr. Farman said.
Regulators are just now recognizing how ill equipped they are to oversee this new technology. ''There is not a lot of radiation exposure data out there,'' said Jerry Hensley, a state radiation protection official in California.
While protocols and guidelines exist for other types of imaging, Mr. Hensley said, ''cone beams are off in their own land right now.''
'A Lack of Understanding'
Even before cone-beam scanners, the dental profession had problems keeping radiation levels low.
For years, dentists have been advised to stop using slow, D-speed film for X-rays because it requires more radiation than faster film. Yet, most still use the slower film, which requires up to 60 percent more radiation, according to dental experts and government records.
Brian Smith, a spokesman for Carestream Dental, the market leader in dental film, said 70 percent of its film sales in the United States are D-speed. The percentage is lower globally, suggesting that dentists elsewhere do a better job of reducing radiation.
There is no excuse for not switching, the Food and Drug Administration said, because faster films offer the same quality for only pennies more.
Dr. John B. Ludlow, a University of North Carolina professor who has published widely quoted studies on dental radiation, said he suspects that some dentists avoid faster film because they mistakenly believe it is harder to process.
A check of state dental boards found none that were aggressively pressing dentists to use the faster film. Digital X-rays use even less radiation than film, but a minority of dentists use them.
One expert in dental radiation, Dr. Joel E. Gray, said he has found as much as a 500 percent difference in radiation levels because of sloppiness in developing film, including using chemicals that were degraded or at the wrong temperature. To get clearer images, dentists compensate by increasing exposure time -- and radiation, said Dr. Gray, whose company, Diquad, has contracts with three states, including California, to try to keep dental radiation in check.
New Jersey, which collects data on radiation exposure, found that 20 percent of its dental offices had high or ''extremely high'' radiation levels.
''There is a lack of understanding of the radiation in dental offices,'' Dr. Gray said.
That has become even more important with the emergence of cone-beam CT scanners. When first introduced in the United States about a decade ago, they were viewed mostly as a cheaper, lower-radiation alternative to big, medical CT scanners that were often needed to diagnose serious ailments of the mouth and face.
But through aggressive marketing and technological improvements over the last several years, their use has rapidly expanded into other areas, including orthodontics. For many teenagers, getting scanned is now part of the ritual of getting braces.
''The parents of these children,'' said Dr. Nicholas Dello Russo, a Boston periodontist who teaches at Harvard Dental School, ''have no idea about the amount of radiation used in these CT scans, and even more frightening, neither do the dentists.''
Quick and Easy
In October, 26,000 people gathered in Orlando, Fla., for the annual conference of the American Dental Association.
The presence of cone-beam CT scanners could be seen and heard at every turn. There was the 3-D imaging center, cone-beam exhibits, demonstrations and continuing education lectures.
An open forum on cone-beam imaging was co-moderated by Dr. Michael Glick, editor of the Journal of the American Dental Association. Of the four panelists, one was a founder of Imaging Sciences, another was a consultant to the company's distributor and a third was a paid speaker for another cone-beam company.
Cone-beam scanners are quick, easy to use, versatile and do not require much space. In most models, the patient sits in a chair for less than a minute while a small scanner circles the head. Enthusiasm for the technology is echoed by dentists around the country.
Dr. Steven A. Guttenberg of Washington said he uses the scanner ''for every single implant that I do.'' Dr. Rik Vanooteghem of Sunnyvale, Calif., added: ''I really feel blindfolded if I don't use it.''
Dr. Bradford Edgren of Greeley, Colo., said his scanner had found hidden teeth -- among other things. ''I found a rock in one child's ear,'' Dr. Edgren said. ''Now she can hear and her grades have gone up.''
A California lawyer, Arthur W. Curley, suggested that dentists might even face legal liability for not using 3-D imaging. ''Negligence may be the failure to incorporate new technologies that meet well-defined legal standards,'' Mr. Curley said in a Web presentation.
Mr. Curley, along with Drs. Vanooteghem, Guttenberg and Edgren, share more than their enthusiasm. They have all received speaking fees from Imaging Sciences.
At the A.D.A.'s conference last month, six manufacturers spent nearly $290,000 to promote 3-D technology. And the A.D.A. said it had accepted somewhere under $100,000 from Imaging Sciences and its sister company -- a specific figure was not given -- from Imaging Sciences for the cone-beam supplement that came out around the time of the conference.
The company's i-CAT scanner is one of the most popular on the market.
''I use my i-CAT for everything,'' one orthodontist, Dr. Edward Y. Lin, proclaimed in a full-page advertisement in one magazine.
''I cringe every time I see that ad,'' said Dr. Farman, the radiology academy president and a professor at the University of Louisville School of Dentistry. He calls the i-CAT an excellent device, but said there is not yet proof that it is better and safer than conventional imaging in all applications.
This month, the academy and the American Association of Endodontists issued a joint statement saying that cone-beam CT ''must not'' be used ''for screening purposes in the absence of clinical signs and symptoms.''
Another cone-beam manufacturer, Sirona Dental Systems, has promoted its devices as better for detecting cavities than conventional methods, according to Professor Horner, the European Commission study group leader. But Professor Horner and dental experts in the United States say that claim is unproven. A spokesman for Sirona, John Sweeney, said his company's reference to cavities appeared in an article several years old and was at the time the best information available.
Dr. Lee W. Graber, president of the American Association of Orthodontists, praises the technology and said dentists have worked to reduce radiation over the years. In his suburban Chicago practice, Dr. Graber has a machine capable of delivering both cone-beam scans and conventional images, but only uses the higher radiation method when necessary. ''Our goal as clinicians is to try to minimize the risk,'' he said.
Vatech America, a cone-beam manufacturer, does not support using its scanner as a screening device, said Travis Harrison, the company's director of business development. ''We don't want to just dose everyone with a CT,'' he said.
Imaging Sciences, a unit of the Danaher Corporation, a diversified manufacturing and technology company, declined repeated requests for interviews, saying it granted such requests only to trade publications, according to Dan Gagnier, a company spokesman.
In a statement, the company said cone-beam scans give dentists ''the ability to view patient anatomy more accurately'' than conventional 2-D X-rays, making it easier to avoid nerves, avoid placing implants in bones that will not support them and improve orthodontic care -- all at radiation levels below ''a number of competing technologies.''
Weighing the Risks
On Nov. 10, more than 100 members of the Greater Philadelphia Society of Orthodontists met in the august, dark-paneled rooms of the Union League of Philadelphia.
They had come to hear Dr. James Mah, described by the society as one of the world's foremost experts on 3-D technology, and to earn six continuing education credits. Dr. Mah, an associate clinical professor at University of Southern California and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, ''has made over 100 presentations nationally and internationally,'' according to his biography from a recent conference.
When a Times reporter showed up for the lecture, a representative of the society welcomed the coverage. But after the representative said he needed to consult a ''vendor representative,'' society officials reversed course. Because actual cases were to be discussed, the officials said, the reporter's presence would violate federal patient privacy laws. Dr. Mah declined to be interviewed, and the reporter was escorted off the premises by security personnel.
Dr. Mah's views on cone-beam technology are hardly a secret. In an online lecture this year sponsored by Imaging Sciences, he proclaimed, ''In orthodontics, we image every patient.''
In that lecture --''Why Dentists Can't Wait for Cone-Beam CT'' -- he played down health concerns, saying a cone-beam scan produces no more radiation than a whole-body scan at the airport.
Equating a cone-beam scan with an airport scan is ''very wrong -- by a lot,'' said Dr. David Brenner, who directs the Center for Radiological Research at Columbia University Medical Center. In fact, cone-beam scanners can be several hundred times as powerful, he said.
Yet in the special issue of the A.D.A. Journal underwritten by Imaging Sciences, Dr. Mah was the lead author on an article challenging the orthodontic association's position that a cone-beam scan ''is not routinely required for orthodontic radiography.''
Dr. Glick, the editor of the A.D.A. Journal, said that as long as authors can back up what they say with science, then he has no problem. ''If they cannot back that up, then that's a different story,'' Dr. Glick said. He added that Dr. Mah's article was peer reviewed.
Critics say aggressive marketing has produced a distorted picture of the safety and efficacy of cone-beam scanners.
Writing in the International Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery last year, researchers concluded that the device's popularity ''has resulted in numerous presentations at conferences, dozens of manufacturers' brochures and published papers resulting in an uncontrolled and non-evidence-based exchange of radiation dose values.''
Some proponents of cone-beam scans say the radiation risk is no greater than what someone would experience flying cross-country or spending several days in the sun. They also minimize the risk by comparing radiation levels to imaging procedures not typically used in orthodontic care, such as medical CT scans done in hospitals and clinics.
''I don't like that comparison with how many days of daylight; I don't like that at all,'' said Dr. Christos Angelopoulos, the director of the division of oral and maxillofacial radiography at Columbia University College of Dental Medicine. ''People still use it very frequently. That really in a way gives the feeling to the patient that it is not risky at all, whereas that's wrong.''
Dr. Angelopoulos said radiation levels can vary greatly, depending on the scanner, its settings and scan time. ''The numbers are all over the place,'' he said.
A report in the British Journal of Radiology last year concluded that cone-beam CT scans produced ''significantly higher'' levels of radiation than conventional dental imaging. The standard orthodontic scan for the i-CAT produces five times as much radiation as a 2-D panoramic scan, said Dr. Ludlow, the North Carolina radiation researcher. Depending upon the model and setting, other scanners produce 4 to 67 times as much as conventional X-rays, he added.
Whatever the radiation levels from a particular cone-beam scan, the risk is small, said Dr. Brenner, the Columbia University radiation researcher. But it is only worth taking, he said, if there is demonstrable benefit, particularly for young patients who are ''typically 5 to 10 times more sensitive than adults.''
Dr. Brenner said that a child faces up to a 1-in-10,000 chance of developing cancer from a single cone-beam scan. Yet orthodontic patients frequently get more than one scan during treatment and face a lifetime of additional X-rays, all of which scientists believe are cumulative. ''You double the dose, you double the risk,'' Dr. Brenner said.
And, Dr. Ludlow said, there is not yet scientific data to prove that the 3-D technology, sometimes known as volumetric imaging, produces better results.
''Until we have that data, and it's going to take time, we just need to use common sense, good judgment,'' he said. ''And part of that good judgment is recognizing that the youngest are more sensitive to radiation than adults, and do we really -- for an uncomplicated orthodontic case, where we are just going to move some teeth a little bit -- do we really need volumetric imaging?''
Time and Money
The after-school rush was about to begin, and Dr. Edward Y. Lin used a final moment of calm on a recent day to show a visitor the 3-D images of a former patient's teeth and bone structure. ''So we put her braces on right here -- it was April 27, 2007,'' he said. ''And there's the finished smile.''
It was a complicated case involving implants, Dr. Lin said, but with 3-D technology and a computer-assisted method of attaching braces, he was able to do the job better and many months faster.
Dr. Lin and his partners run a popular orthodontic practice in and around Green Bay, Wis. A visit there illustrates some of the factors involved in deciding whether to use cone beam and how it fits into the economics of a practice.
For several years, Dr. Lin has been using technology called SureSmile where a robot, guided by 3-D images, bends wires that move the teeth into desired positions. The technology is able to mold metal wires to a patient's teeth with great precision.
The 3-D image can be taken with either a tiny camera, which uses light, not radiation, or a cone-beam scanner.
The nonradiation method is ''really no different than taking a series of still pictures like you would with a digital camera,'' said Dan De Silva, vice president of marketing for OraMetrix, the Texas company that owns SureSmile. From those pictures, computers create a 3-D image.
A cone-beam scanner is quicker, and he says that about a third of his customers either own or have access to one.
Dr. Lin estimates that all of his roughly 800 SureSmile patients received cone-beam scans, some as many as four scans. Dr. Lin said he uses several techniques to keep the radiation as low as possible.
Dr. Lin said he started using the nonradiation method, but found that it took a half-hour or more to complete and could be uncomfortable for the patient. He says his i-CAT scanner takes only seconds, offers a better view of roots and often detects hidden problems that might complicate treatment. ''It's not the exception,'' he said. ''It happens on a routine basis.''
One of Dr. Lin's satisfied patients is Tomek Miaskowski, 18, who just had his braces removed. ''Today was probably the greatest day of my teenage life,'' the patient said.
Mr. Miaskowski said he got two cone-beam scans. Radiation was not an issue for him. ''I trust the doctor-- that's what you have to do,'' he said.
Shorter treatment time makes the patients, their parents and the orthodontist happy. ''We now attribute a significant portion of our revenue to the frequent use of our cone-beam machine for diagnostics, records and our SureSmile scans,'' Dr. Lin said in a 2009 article he wrote for a dental publication.
In the article, Dr. Lin broke down the economics of his scanner, which cost about $200,000. ''We calculated the value of each clinical minute at our practice at approximately $5,'' he wrote, and using the cone beam instead of the camera cut each appointment by at least 30 minutes. ''That's $150 in savings,'' he wrote. ''For 1,000 possible new appointments for braces yearly, that's $150,000 in savings.''
Using the cone-beam scanner, Dr. Lin wrote, he treats the same number of patients ''in a three-day clinical week that we used to in a four-day week, which reduces our staff requirements.''
Little Regulation
Cone-beam CT scanners, like most radiological devices in medicine, are lightly regulated.
''Some states have in effect no inspections of dental X-ray units,'' said Dr. G. Donald Frey, professor of radiology at the Medical University of South Carolina and a past president of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine. While inspectors generally evaluate machine performance, few attempt to measure the overall radiation risk to the patient's organs.
''States tend not to want to regulate the practice of medicine or dentistry,'' Dr. Frey said.
Most states require dentists to earn continuing education credits for re-licensure, but for the most part do not assess the content of the courses, trusting dentists to select and complete suitable courses.
The quality of these courses varies widely, The Times has found.
Dentists, for example, can earn two continuing education credits by reading about cone-beam technology in a new magazine, Orthodontic Practice -- US, and then answering 10 simple questions appended to the end.
The article's author is Dr. Lin, who said he has been a paid lecturer for Imaging Sciences for three years. He said the company did not pay him to write the article or to appear in its full-page advertisement in the same issue.
Dr. Lin said he speaks on behalf of the company because he believes the i-CAT is the best machine around.
Imaging Sciences has benefited from other favorable coverage by the magazine's publisher, MedMark of Scottsdale, Ariz. A recent issue of MedMark's ''Implant Practice -- US'' included continuing education articles and a corporate profile of Imaging Sciences, titled ''A company of innovation, quality and service.''
The article's praise was hardly surprising. According to the publisher, Imaging Sciences wrote it.
The Radiation Boom: Articles in this series are examining issues arising from the increasing use of medical radiation and the new technologies that deliver it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An image from a cone-beam CT scanner used by dentists. (A1)
PRACTICES AND PROMOTION: Dr. Edward Y. Lin, at top, uses cone-beam scanners in Green Bay, Wis. Above, a contest to promote a scanner. At right, Dr. Lin in an ad for the i-CAT model. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)
TECHNOLOGY SHOWCASE: At an American Dental Association conference in Orlando, Fla., in October, a Morita cone-beam scanner was demonstrated using an artificial skull. The event included lectures and a 3-D imaging center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGG MATTHEWS) (A21) CHART: Radiation Doses In the Dentist's Chair: Radiation from cone beam CT scanners used in orthodontics varies greatly: between 4 and 67 times more than the average amount produced by conventional, 2-D panoramic X-rays. (Sources: Dr. John B. Ludlow, University of North Carolina (cone beam CT, panoramic scan and Somaton figures)
RadiologyInfo.org (X-ray and CT head scan)
Health Physics Society (airport scanner low estimate)
 Dr. David Brenner, Columbia University Medical Center (airport scanner upper estimate)) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DENTISTRY (90%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (89%); RADIOLOGY (78%); TOOTH DISORDERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (66%); WRITERS (65%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: IMAGING SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION (82%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3844 X-RAY APPARATUS & TUBES & RELATED IRRADIATION APPARATUS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (59%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (51%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) EUROPE (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



794 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Fed Adopts Washington Tactics to Combat Critics

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Graham Bowley contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Faced with unusually sharp ideological attacks after its latest bid to stimulate the economy, the Federal Reserve now faces a challenge far removed from the conduct of monetary policy: how to defend itself in a hyperpartisan environment without becoming overtly political.
Caught off guard by accusations from Congressional Republicans, Sarah Palin, Tea Party activists and conservative economists, the central bank and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, are pushing back, making their case on substantive grounds but also haltingly adopting the tactics of Washington battle, like strategically placed interviews, behind-the-scenes assuaging of opponents and reaching out to potential allies on Capitol Hill.
The stakes are high. Last week, one House conservative announced legislation to strip the Fed of its mandate to promote jobs and have it focus solely on containing inflation.
The attacks, coupled with criticism from foreign officials, have introduced enough uncertainty into global financial markets to potentially undercut the Fed's plan to drive down interest rates, which rise or fall as investors anticipate Fed action. 
Since the Nov. 3 announcement, Treasury yields have risen as the bond markets seemed to be doing what they normally never dare do: fight the Fed. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, at 2.67 percent on Nov. 3, fell to 2.53 percent on Nov. 5. But then came a reversal that caught traders by surprise. The yield was up to 2.92 percent by Nov. 15, before falling slightly, to 2.80 percent on Monday.
Behind the scenes, Mr. Bernanke has signaled that he is steadfast on the Fed's plan to buy $600 billion of government securities through June in an unorthodox effort to push down long-term interest rates and spur the anemic recovery. In doing so he is trying to make clear to the markets that the Fed will not reverse course unless there is a compelling reason to do so, like a big increase in inflation expectations or a sharp rise in commodity prices.
Whether the uptick in yields represents genuine market anxiety about the Fed's inflation-fighting commitments, or the fact that the Fed's policy has already been effective at accelerating the recovery, the attacks are a distraction and could hurt the Fed's ability to set policy. ''That is certainly the effect of Congressional criticism,'' Alan Greenspan, Mr. Bernanke's predecessor, said.
Mr. Bernanke, who unlike Mr. Greenspan shuns the Washington social circuit, lacks close ties to conservative Republicans, even though he was first appointed by President George W. Bush and served briefly as his top economic adviser.
But lately he has stepped up his outreach, meeting with members of the Senate Banking Committee and explaining the Nov. 3 decision in an opinion-page article and a speech.
But the efforts have only had partial success. After meeting with Mr. Bernanke on Wednesday, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Banking Committee, said, ''The bottom line is that the Fed is attempting to spur job growth because the Obama administration has done so much to inhibit it.''
Fed officials concede that they left an opening for their detractors by timing their latest move -- the decision to resume the asset-purchase strategy known as quantitative easing -- for the day after the midterm elections. Operating outside the political calendar, the Fed's policy-making committee had long planned to convene Nov. 2 for two days.
The Fed had signaled its intentions to the markets. Starting in August, when it hinted that the recovery was so weak as to require additional support, stock prices rose and long-term interest rates fell in anticipation of the Fed's announcement.
But Mr. Bernanke and other top officials, unaccustomed to partisan considerations, did not anticipate the political fallout.
''The fact that immediately after an election which was a historic rejection of American liberalism and the borrowing and the spending and the bailout agenda of the recent past, for the central bank, for the Federal Reserve, to unilaterally announce $600 billion in printed money going into the economy, I think is at odds with the goals of the American people,'' said Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, who is the chairman of the House Republican Conference and has ties to the Tea Party.
Mr. Pence introduced legislation that would strip the Fed of one of its two legally mandated goals -- promoting maximum employment -- and have it focus on fighting inflation and preserving the value of the dollar.
Mr. Bernanke has relied on two aides, Michelle A. Smith, his chief of staff and spokeswoman, and Linda L. Robertson, a former lobbyist for Enron and Johns Hopkins, to manage his political messaging. Both worked at the Treasury Department during the Clinton administration and have had experience handling crises, though they probably could not have foreseen the intensity of the storm the Fed kicked up.
President Obama, who nominated Mr. Bernanke to a second term, has defended the Fed's actions in the face of international criticism.
The Fed has taken criticism over the recession and Wall Street bailouts, but in the financial overhaul this year, it helped defeat proposals to strip away its power to regulate and supervise banks.
Mr. Bernanke, who had thought the worst was behind him, was unsettled by the suddenness of the recent attacks. He has said that the Fed was in a no-win situation; if it had not acted, it would have been criticized for ignoring the painfully slow pace of the recovery.
The situation forms an odd corollary to the early 1980s, when Mr. Greenspan's predecessor, Paul A. Volcker, sharply raised interest rates, setting off back-to-back recessions in a painful but effective war on inflation.
Liberals attacked Mr. Volcker, a Democrat, as an inflation-fighting zealot who disregarded the plight of the unemployed. Now conservatives are portraying Mr. Bernanke, a Republican, as trying too hard to stimulate growth and underestimating the risk of inflation.
Several veterans of the Bush administration signed an open letter to Mr. Bernanke last week, saying the program should be ''reconsidered and discontinued.''
They included John B. Taylor, a former Treasury under secretary, and Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former Congressional budget director. The letter was the work of a new group, e21: Economic Policies for the 21st Century, led by Christopher Papagianis, a former Bush aide. Its chief supporters include David R. Malpass, who was a Treasury official in the Reagan administration, and Paul E. Singer, a hedge fund manager and prolific Republican donor.
Mr. Bernanke faces at least two years of scrutiny by a Republican-controlled House; the chairman of a subcommittee that oversees the Fed is likely to be Representative Ron Paul of Texas, a libertarian who wants to abolish the central bank.
''The Federal Reserve's decisions are appropriately debated in the public forum and the Fed should explain and be held accountable for them,'' said Donald L. Kohn, who retired this year as the Fed's vice chairman. ''But I have the sense that this is being turned into a partisan issue and that is worrisome to me.''
Mr. Kohn added, ''The verbiage has gotten intense and extreme -- out of line, in my view, with the decision itself.''
Mr. Greenspan, who recently suggested that the Fed was weakening the dollar, expressed sympathy for his successor. ''The Fed in recent years has been facing far greater policy challenges than I, or my colleagues, had to confront during the whole of my tenure,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke has reached out to quell criticism of the Federal Reserve. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Ben Bernanke, center, and his predecessor, Alan Greenspan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); SARAH PALIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); RICHARD SHELBY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



795 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK ONLINE; CAPITAL RULES

BYLINE: By HEIDI N. MOORE

 BODY:
Once again, what's good for banks -- and their shareholders -- may not be so great for consumers. The Federal Reserve's new stress tests, along with the new Basel III international rules on capital requirements, are aimed at ensuring that big banks are well capitalized and, in the United States, finally allowing them to raise dividends to shareholders.
But according to banking experts, one big result is likely to be that those banks will also raise the costs of loans of all kinds, including corporate loans, mortgages and credit cards. 
That will be true even though overnight interest rates continue to be at virtually zero percent, artificially kept down by the Federal Reserve in part to encourage banks to lend and otherwise move money through the economy.
So lend, they will -- but at what price? That's the question on the table as banks face some of the biggest tests of their financial management in a decade.
Here's the problem: To meet the new capital requirements, banks will have to hold more money on their books. As they do that, their revenues are likely to go down. To make up for the revenue shortfall, banks are already talking about ways to charge more for loans.
To get an idea of what banks are up against, a team within the investment banking division of Barclays Capital has been running some estimates. Tom McGuire, the head of the capital advisory group in the investment banking division at Barclays, is an expert on debt capital markets and advises banks on how to raise money.
Mr. McGuire has been running financial models on the top 35 American banks since December, when the new Basel III guidelines were being sketched out.
Mr. McGuire and his four-person team estimate that the top 35 banks would need to raise $100 billion to $150 billion to meet the Basel III capital requirements plus provide a little more for a cushion. That translates roughly into raising their Tier 1 common up to 8 percent. (Tier 1 common is a basic measure of what banks hold against the risk of future losses.) Mr. McGuire estimates the top 35 banks have a shortfall of $500 billion in liquidity, although most of that can be managed without outside capital.
There are a few caveats. Mr. McGuire's calculations were based on the banks' second-quarter earnings; things could change before the banks implement Basel III, considering the deadline isn't officially until 2018. In addition, banks do not disclose all of their holdings, including stakes in other big financial companies or pension assets, so those could change the numbers as well. There are also changes in regulatory capital still to come: the United States is phasing out a kind of popular securities known as hybrid capital by 2013; banks have long depended on that to increase their regulatory capital.
So if the banks do not raise outside money, how will they meet their capital requirements? They either have to increase their capital or reduce their riskier assets.
Mr. McGuire believes the banks will retain more earnings. He also believes they will get rid of more troublesome assets through what they call ''mitigation,'' or, essentially, waiting until the terms of the loans expire so they are worthless. In addition, they may sell assets.
What that means is that banks will not go into the stock market to raise money, simply because there is no urgency to rush to raise cash.
As the banks get rid of their riskier assets and retain more earnings, however, they are going to be putting less money to work. As a result, they will likely look to increase prices on loans of all kinds, and in fact many banks are already talking about it.
But the equation gets a lot more complicated when the Fed's stress tests enter the picture.
The Fed said in guidelines released last week that it would ask the country's 19 largest banks to undergo stress tests to judge whether they have enough capital to survive ''an adverse macroeconomic scenario,'' or another global financial crash.
As The New York Times reported, the Fed's primary goal is to check that banks have enough capital to be able to raise their dividends to stockholders for the first time after the financial crisis hit in 2007. The banks have until Jan. 7 to submit their stress-test homework to the Fed.
The stock market is already a little leery of the Fed's plan, and the shares of the biggest banks fell when it was announced.
There is also this issue: The Fed did not say what banks would have to do if they did not meet its 5 percent threshold for Tier 1 capital.
The Fed may unintentionally have unnerved investors worried about banks when it is actually trying to soothe them.
If the Fed finds any banks badly capitalized, those institutions will need to raise money. To do that, they need to sell stock. And when they step into the market, those firms will be flying a giant red flag to the markets that they flunked the Fed's stress tests.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); INTEREST RATES (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



796 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Florida Keys Declare Open Season on the Invasive Lionfish

BYLINE: By ERIK OLSEN

 BODY:
KEY WEST, Fla. -- Crawling through turquoise murk on the ocean floor near Tea Table Key, Rob Pillus glances at a half dozen lobsters that twirl their antennae in the fast-moving current. Mr. Pillus, an avid spear fisherman, would normally stuff the crustaceans into his mesh bag for dinner, but today he is after more exotic quarry: an invasive species called the lionfish that threatens to wreak havoc on this ecologically sensitive marine system.
Within a few minutes Mr. Pillus spots a lionfish and its extravagant zebra-striped fins on a bridge pylon. He steadies his homemade spear and skewers the fish, slicing off its venomous fins before putting it in his bag. He gives an enthusiastic thumbs-up and keeps moving. 
Later, on the deck of his 28-foot motorboat, Mr. Pillus turns his bounty of five lionfish over to his teammate, Mike Dugan, who puts them on ice.
''Jackpot, fellas,'' exclaims Mr. Pillus.
Mr. Pillus is team captain of the Lion Hunters, one of 18 groups of divers armed with nets or sharp spears who are here to compete in the final stage of a newly created lionfish derby in the Florida Keys.
Derbies like this are one way that officials and scientists are seeking to bring attention to the potential damage caused by this voracious, rapidly breeding fish and to control its spread, which in the Florida Keys has been so quick that wildlife managers are having a hard time adapting. The first fish wasn't discovered until January 2009, when a single female was found and immediately removed by scientists from a reef in Key Largo. Now the lionfish is plentiful enough to have multiple derbies.
''We're terrified,'' says Dave Walton, site manager of Dry Tortugas National Park, a group of islands and an ecological reserve 60 miles west of Key West, where lionfish first appeared in September 2009.
If the lionfish's impact on other parts of the Caribbean is any guide, Mr. Walton and others in the region are right to be concerned. It is a formidable predator that can devastate fish populations wherever it feeds. Researchers here examined more than 1,000 lionfish stomachs and found more than 50 species of prey fish inside, including juveniles of commercially important grouper and snapper. The fish also eat juvenile parrotfish, which graze on algae and keep it from overgrowing and killing corals.
''What we do know is what we can see in areas like the Bahamas where you go to a particular reef and all you can see is lionfish,'' says Sean Morton, superintendent of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, a 3,900-square-mile park stretching from Biscayne Bay to Dry Tortugas National Park.
If the reef system here is depleted of other fish species because of the lionfish's appetite, the impact could be devastating to the region's economy, which relies heavily on commercial fishing and recreational diving. Bob Holston, the owner of Dive Key West, a local dive shop, says the potential threat could spell doom for his business.
''Imagine going into Yellowstone and not being able to see any birds, any bears, any deer or whatever -- you would just be looking at trees,'' he said.
A native of the Indo-Pacific Ocean and the Red Sea, the lionfish has no known predators. It is believed to have been released by aquarists sometime in the 1990s and has since spread up the East Coast to North Carolina and through the Caribbean.
Scientists say the fish can produce 30,000 eggs in a single spawning event, and can spawn as frequently as every four days. ''That means we're looking at annual output of two million eggs per female,'' says Lad Akins, a research diver and the director of operations with the Reef Environmental Education Foundation, or Reef.
Scientists and policy makers are at a loss as to how to eradicate the fish, a goal that a 2003 report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says is ''nearly impossible.'' The only hope, say officials, is some form of local control.
Which is where the derbies come in. On Nov. 13, 18 teams competed from sunrise to sundown to kill as many fish as they could with hopes of sharing $3,350 in prize money.
''We're taking a part in the battle,'' says Robert Hickerson, the captain of Team Frapper, a group of four divers from Vero Beach. Mr. Hickerson says he dives as often as twice a week. His ''kill count'' is a source of pride. ''I've killed over a hundred of them. I try to kill them even when I'm on vacation.''
While lionfish numbers are growing, the fish can be elusive. Despite the best efforts of the 18 teams in the Lower Keys derby, only 109 fish were killed, adding to the 550 lionfish killed in the two previous contests in Key Largo in September and Marathon in October.
One potential solution is to promote the fish as food for another voracious predator: man. Lionfish are considered excellent eating. Indeed, after the lionfish derby here, participants feasted on fried lionfish nuggets.
''They taste a lot like hogfish,'' says Mr. Dugan of the Lion Hunters. ''They're really good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DANGER: The lionfish threatens to wreak havoc on the ecologically sensitive marine system of the Florida Keys. It was discovered in the area in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK OLSEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUSTACEANS (90%); FISHES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (79%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); BAHAMAS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



797 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Small Player on Wall Street Carves Out a Niche in Shale

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
The energy industry's love for shale gas has been in evidence in recent years. Companies like Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch Shell and Chevron have poured billions of dollars into deals to give them access to acreage in the Marcellus Shale and other shale formations.
Alongside these global giants in oil and natural gas has been an investment bank that is only middling among merger advisers: Jefferies & Company. Yet the bank has managed to broker nearly every single major deal in shale. 
Indeed, nine of the 10 biggest shale transaction in the last three years - including Exxon Mobil's $31 billion acquisition of XTO Energy last December and Chevron's $3.2 billion purchase of Atlas Energy announced Nov. 9 - have included Jefferies as an adviser, bringing no small amount of attention to a bank that is ranked 16th in Thomson Reuters' merger advising standings.
Jefferies could not have scripted it any better. While bigger banks pare back their business, Jefferies is in the midst of a hiring spree aimed at bolstering the stature of its investment banking arm.
Shale deals have garnered some of the biggest doses of public relations. They have been brokered by an investment banker and former natural-gas executive, Ralph Eads III, who joined Jefferies in 2005, when the bank bought the oil and gas advisory firm Randall & Dewey.
Mr. Eads stands out as a star in the increasingly prominent deal advisory business at Jefferies, which was founded in 1962 with a focus on block trading and did not even get into the investment banking business until the 1990s.
In relative terms, it remains a smaller player on Wall Street.
Through Nov. 19, it has advised $36.2 billion worth of deals, compared with the $273.1 billion that Goldman Sachs has advised, according to Thomson Reuters.
But Jefferies has turned heads with its latest hiring spree, increasing its investment-banking head count to 650 from about 500 in the last two years. It first made a splash last year when it wooed away the bulk of UBS's health care team, led by Benjamin D. Lorello, now the global head of investment banking and capital markets at Jefferies. In recent months, it has made big-name hires from the advisory ranks at Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Barclays among others.
Part of Jefferies's allure to defectors surely lies in the fact that the bank did not get as bruised during the financial crisis as some of its much larger peers. The fact that Jefferies still pays 85 percent of compensation in cash, while other banks have switched to paying a bigger chunk of their compensation in stock, is also a selling point.
''As an industry, we went through an incredibly gut-wrenching period of dislocation,'' said John E. Huwiler, the bank's global head of mergers and acquisitions. ''Time periods like that create opportunities for stable platforms. Fortunately for us, we were comparatively stable through that period of time.''
The fruits of that hiring are starting to become apparent. Jefferies reported $284.3 million in mergers-and-acquisitions advisory revenue in the first eight months of this year, compared with less than half that - $102.7 million - in the first nine months last year. Over that time, Jefferies's advisory business grew from representing 6 percent of the bank's net revenue to nearly 19 percent.
''They have definitely come out of that whole big pack of boutiques that was out there, and now they are really it as far as midcap investment banks,'' said Christoph M. Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company.
A particular bright spot has been in energy. In addition to bankers like Mr. Eads, Randall & Dewey also brought with it a large technical team of geologists and other experts. Mr. Eads credits them with reaching the conclusion that exploring shale formations could be the next big thing. That was three and a half years ago, before even many energy companies were interested in shale.
That got Mr. Eads thinking: if there is all this gas available to be extracted, who is going to pay for it?
''It was very clear to me that the holders of acreage did not have enough capital to be able to develop the assets themselves,'' he said. ''This was going to have to be financed in large part by the industry.''
Among the first people to whom Mr. Eads reached out was Aubrey K. McClendon, the chief executive of Chesapeake Energy, who decades earlier had been his fraternity brother at Duke University. Jefferies has advised Chesapeake on more than 15 deals over the last five years - most recently last month, when the Chinese state-run oil company Cnooc struck a $2.2 billion partnership with the company to develop a South Texas shale deposit.
''Certainly with regard to J.V.'s, Ralph is considered by me - and is also generally considered by others - to be the most accomplished energy investment banker in the business, bar none,'' Mr. McClendon said of Mr. Eads's role in joint venture deals.
What remains to be seen, however, is how long the pace of shale deals will continue.
While the Atlas deal caused stock prices to rise sharply for several other companies with acreage in the Marcellus Shale in Appalachia, including Range Resources and Cabot Oil and Gas, Mr. Eads said that the shale gas industry was starting to look more like a buyer's market.
''I think the challenge now is, we've seen a big wave of deals, and the companies that bought the assets need to digest them,'' he said.
But Jefferies does not worry. The way the bank sees it, with all the new bankers who have come on board, there will be plenty more deals in other sectors to more than make up for any slowdown in shale.
''Success begets success,'' Mr. Huwiler said. ''The dynamic for us today is, we have a lot of people knocking on our door, which is a fortunate position to be in - and one we're trying to capitalize on.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ralph Eads III has helped Jefferies increase its business as a deal adviser. CHARTS: Powered by Natural Gas: Jefferies, a mid-size investment bank, has been moving up the United States rankings of advisers to mergers, thanks to its role in a number of energy deals. (Source:Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (91%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (72%); CHEVRON CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (91%); RDSA (AMS) (91%); RDS.B (NYSE) (91%); RDS.A (NYSE) (91%); XOM (NYSE) (85%); CVX (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



798 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: A Shift From Company Cars

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Businesses are increasingly adopting car sharing as a cost-saving alternative for employee travel. Workers can step outside their company's front door and into a car they can drive to a business meeting or sales call, and -- during breaks or lunch hour -- use for errands or shopping.
For companies, car sharing is a way to reduce rental costs, fleet size or use of car livery services. The hourly rentals, with gas, insurance and parking included, can also help businesses bolster their green credentials by offering hybrids as well as electric plug-in cars. 
Hill Holliday, an advertising company based in Boston, switched last year to Zipcar, the pioneer of per-trip rentals in the United States, to trim costs and give its employees flexibility, said Michael Sheehan, Hill Holliday's chief executive.
''We have people going places all the time, using taxis, rental cars or car services,'' Mr. Sheehan said. ''We still use these, but for clients outside of Boston, our employees can use a Zipcar at a fraction of the normal rental cost.''
Steve Kauffman, a senior vice president for strategic planning at Hill Holliday, drives a Zipcar to one of the agency's clients, Dunkin' Donuts, at an office 25 minutes southwest of Boston. Before the agency signed up with Zipcar, employees scheduled a shared minivan to travel to outlying clients.
''Now, when clients want me to stick around an extra five or 10 minutes, or want to talk about something else, I can spend that time without any worries,'' Mr. Kauffman said. ''I just punch in my cellphone or computer to extend my usage. This gives me a lot of flexibility.''
The average employee of the agency uses a Zipcar about 180 times a year, the company has calculated, or about 3.5 times a week. The company concluded that it was spending $6,500 annually per employee for Zipcar versus the $43,000 per employee each year for a car-and-driver service.
Zipcar, in Cambridge, Mass., has been wooing corporate customers to expand its 400,000-client list. Zipcar has signed up 10,000 company clients under its Zipcar for Business program, said Scott Griffith, the company's chief executive.
''The downturn in the economy has encouraged smaller businesses, in particular, to look for ways to save money,'' he said. Car sharing, he said, also simplifies billing and employee reimbursements, and eliminates costly servicing and refueling.
Employees reserve online, unlock the door with a programmed card and drive away. Car-sharing costs run from $5 an hour for a small car to $17 for vehicles like a BMW sedan. Companies and their workers, even on personal errands, typically pay the same hourly rate. And these per-trip renters avoid lines, lengthy contracts and confusing insurance options at the auto rental counter.
Big-name rental giants like Hertz and Enterprise, as well as U-Haul Truck Rental, are now offering their own self-service programs. Connect by Hertz last year signed up the insurance and financial services giant USAA and Marriott International for car sharing.
Google offers Enterprise's WeCar auto-sharing program at its headquarters for business travel or personal use, and plans next year to add five more cars to its existing 30 hybrids. Recreational Equipment Inc. in Seattle also offers car sharing.
Hertz is tapping its list of corporate rental customers for Connect by Hertz, and Robert J. Stuart, its senior vice president for global sales, said it had signed up 50 companies in 24 states since the program began in December 2008.
''We're starting to see more traction from companies who see this as part of their green initiatives, and as a pretty nice benefit for employees,'' he said.
Hertz and Zipcar also have fleet management software for corporations to track and maintain their vehicle pools. Zipcar's is called FastFleet, and Hertz's is called Connect to Go. Mr. Stuart said the software pinpointed a vehicle's location, when it needed to be serviced and when fuel should be added.
One issue that could affect Zipcar's future is that it is not currently at airports. Julian Espiritu, managing director of Abrams CarSharing Advisors in Purchase, N.Y., said that large companies ''like the economic benefits, and love the environmental aspect, but they are concerned about coverage at airports where their sales forces travel.'' But, he predicted, ''Soon you will find car sharing at airports, and the whole car rental industry will shift to this model.''
How or even whether that will affect Zipcar's corporate market share is yet to be known. Zipcar has 500,000 members in 13 cities (and 225 college campuses) in the United States. Zipcar, which has 8,000 vehicles, took in $130 million in revenue last year, but has not turned an annual profit since its founding in 2000 because of the high costs of expanding to new locations.
USAA, based in San Antonio, provides rides for employees facing emergencies, but not for personal chores. Instead, the company's Connect by Hertz pilot program offers its 14,000 employees the use of three Toyota Priuses at its suburban parking lot for $5 an hour.
''I head out at lunch to run errands,'' said Janelle Dziuk, a manager in the products and services innovation department.
With the new Connect cars available, Ms. Dziuk said, she has taken a half-dozen excursions. But she noted: ''I will be in the car a lot more when it comes closer to Christmas. I can get a lot more shopping done, and be more productive at work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janelle Dziuk participates in her company's Connect by Hertz program to rent a car at lunch for errands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (79%); SEDANS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: ZIPCAR INC (92%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (67%); HILL HOLLIDAY (57%)

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (92%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (67%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (67%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



799 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: New Trade Group's Focus Will Be Marijuana Industry

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
DENVER -- It is being called the green rush. With more states moving to legalize medical marijuana, the business of growing and dispensing it is booming, even as much of the rest of the economy struggles. 
Now, flush with financial clout, and with their eyes on pushing Congress to further loosen laws, medical marijuana industry leaders are forming a national trade association. While there are smaller, local trade groups, organizers around the country say this will be the first business organization working on the national level.
Based in Washington, the group, the National Cannabis Industry Association, will focus primarily on lobbying, but will also help medical marijuana businesses navigate a patchwork of laws that differ depending on location.
''This is an industry that is emerging -- from the dispensaries to the ancillary businesses that are now coming out of the shadows,'' said Aaron Smith, a medical marijuana advocate in Phoenix and the group's executive director. ''While there is good work being done, there isn't anyone out there representing the industry's interests directly.''
The group's board members, which include some of the more prominent names in the medical marijuana industry, say the need for a national association has become increasingly apparent with the explosion of the legal marijuana business. Such businesses include dispensaries, growing facilities and equipment suppliers.
J. B. Woods, a former insurance agent for Allstate who now sells property and product-liability insurance to medical marijuana businesses in Colorado and other states, is one of the 23 board members. Mr. Woods said the industry had grown so quickly and laws had changed so rapidly that it can be difficult for medical marijuana businesses -- and the property owners and banks they deal with -- to know if they are operating legally.
''A lot of times these dispensaries can make a huge capital investment only to find out that the local municipality changed its rules, and they have to close down,'' he said. ''You are in an industry that is very complicated, and ultimately it's about having a source of credible information.''
The group will officially begin at a national convention in Denver next month.
''This is an industry in its infancy,'' said Bob Selan, a board member and chief executive of Kush magazine, a medical marijuana lifestyle publication. ''But it is an industry now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve DeAngelo, right, founded a marijuana dispensary in Oakland, Calif., and is on the board of an industry trade group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MARIJUANA (92%); CANNABIS (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (65%); INSURANCE (64%); PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE (64%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (64%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (64%)

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (54%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) COLORADO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010



800 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: In a Sliver of Indonesia, a Public Embrace of Judaism

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
MANADO, Indonesia -- A new, 62-foot-tall menorah, possibly the world's largest, rises from a mountain overlooking this Indonesian city, courtesy of the local government. Flags of Israel can be spotted on motorcycle taxi stands, one near a six-year-old synagogue that has received a face-lift, including a ceiling with a large Star of David, paid for by local officials.
Long known as a Christian stronghold and more recently as home to evangelical and charismatic Christian groups, this area on the fringes of northern Indonesia has become the unlikely setting for increasingly public displays of pro-Jewish sentiments as some people have embraced the faith of their Dutch Jewish ancestors. With the local governments' blessing, they are carving out a small space for themselves in the sometimes strangely shifting religious landscape of Indonesia, the country with the world's largest Muslim population.
The trend comes as extremist Islamic groups have grown bolder in assailing Christian and other religious minorities elsewhere in Indonesia, with the central government, fearful of offending Muslim groups, doing little to prevent the attacks. Last November, extremists protesting the 2008-9 war in Gaza shut down what had been the most prominent remnant of Indonesia's historic but little-known Jewish community, a century-old synagogue in Surabaya, the country's second-largest city. 
That left the synagogue in a town just outside Manado -- founded by Indonesians still struggling to learn about Judaism and now attended by about 10 people -- as Indonesia's sole surviving Jewish house of worship. Before reaching out for help to sometimes suspicious Jewish communities outside Indonesia, they researched Judaism at an Internet cafe here. They turned, they said jokingly, to Rabbi Google for answers. They compiled a Torah by printing pages off the Internet. They sought the finer points of davening on YouTube.
''We're just trying to be good Jews,'' said Toar Palilingan, 27, who, wearing a black coat and a broad-brimmed hat in the ultra-Orthodox style, led a Sabbath dinner at his family home recently with two regulars.
''But if you compare us to Jews in Jerusalem or Brooklyn,'' added Mr. Palilingan, now also known as Yaakov Baruch, ''we're not there yet.''
Indonesia and Israel do not have diplomatic relations but have discreetly shared military and economic ties over the decades. In recent years, Jewish businessmen from Israel and elsewhere have quietly traveled here seeking business opportunities.
Moshe Kotel, 47, who was born in El Salvador and has Israeli and American citizenship, has been coming to Manado every year since 2003 and owns a business in organic eggs. Mr. Kotel, whose wife is from the area, said he felt nervous landing at the airport here for the first time.
''It was 11 p.m. already, and I always carry tefillin with me,'' Mr. Kotel said, referring to the small leather boxes housing Scriptural passages. ''But ever since I saw the Israeli flags on the taxis at the airport, I've always felt welcome here.''
The government of North Minahasa, a mostly Christian district here, erected the giant menorah last year at a cost of $150,000, said Margarita Rumokoy, the head of the district's tourism department.
Denny Wowiling, a local legislator, said he proposed building the menorah after learning about the one in front of Israel's Knesset. He hoped to attract tourists and businessmen from Europe.
''It is also for the Jewish people to see that there is this sacred symbol, their sacred symbol, outside their country,'' he said.
Mr. Wowiling, a Pentecostal Christian, emphasized that Christians and Muslims lived peacefully in the province here, North Sulawesi, but acknowledged that ''there are worries that we might be targeted by people from outside.''
Increasingly strong pro-Jewish sentiments also appear to be an outgrowth of an evangelical and charismatic Christian movement that with the help of American and European missionaries has taken root here in the past decade. Some experts regard this movement as a reaction against the growing role of orthodox Islam in much of the rest of Indonesia.
''In Manado, Christianity has always had a strong identity mark in the belief that it's opposed to the surrounding sea of Islam,'' said Theo Kamsma, a scholar at The Hague University who has studied Manado's Jewish legacy. Christianity and a reemerging Judaism share a ''rebellious'' nature, he added.
Two years before the menorah was built, a Christian real estate developer raised a 98-foot-tall statue of Jesus on top of a hill here; the statue is about three-quarters the size of Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro. In the town center, churches belonging to a multitude of denominations now sit a few hundred yards apart.
During Dutch colonial rule, Jewish communities were established in major trading cities where they often dealt in real estate, acting as mediators between colonial rulers and locals, said Anthony Reid, a scholar on Southeast Asia at the Australian National University. Given Indonesia's traditionally moderate Islam, anti-Jewish sentiments were never strong.
''The anti-Jewish feelings really came in the 1980s and 1990s, all because of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,'' Mr. Reid said.
In Surabaya, in a Jewish cemetery now overgrown with weeds, gravestones indicate that people were buried there as recently as 2007. The synagogue, located on a major street, had been inactive for the past decade but was still being used for funeral services.
''We'd never had any problems until last year,'' said Sunarmi Karti, 46, an Indonesian woman in Surabaya who still lives in a house inside the synagogue's compound and whose stepfather was Jewish.
Here in Manado, families of Dutch Jewish ancestry had practiced their faith openly before Indonesia gained independence from the Netherlands in 1949. After that, they converted to Christianity or Islam for safety.
''We told our children never to talk about our Jewish origins,'' said Leo van Beugen, 70, who was raised as a Roman Catholic. ''So our grandchildren do not even know.''
Mr. van Beugen is the great-uncle of Mr. Palilingan, who was leading the Sabbath dinner.
It was just over a decade ago, during a heated exchange over the Bible and Moses, that Mr. Palilingan's maternal great-aunt let slip the family's Jewish roots. Mr. Palilingan -- a lecturer in law at Sam Ratulangi University here, where his father, a Christian, and mother, a Muslim, also teach in the same department -- learned that his relatives on his mother's side descended from a 19th-century Dutch Jewish immigrant, Elias van Beugen.
His great-aunt suggested that he meet the Bollegrafs, once the most prominent Jewish family in Manado. Oral Bollegraf, now 50, had been a Pentecostal Christian all his life but knew that his grandfather had maintained Manado's only synagogue in the family home.
''We never acknowledged that we were Jewish,'' Mr. Bollegraf, who recently went to Israel with Mr. Palilingan, said during the Sabbath dinner. ''But everybody in town knew us as a Jewish family.''
Mr. Palilingan made contact with the rabbi who was physically closest, Mordechai Abergel, an emissary in Singapore of the Brooklyn-based Chabad Lubavitch movement. Rabbi Abergel said that Mr. Palilingan had done a ''great job'' in trying to reconnect with his Jewish roots, though he had yet to undergo a full conversion.
Committed to what he calls the ''purity'' of ultra-Orthodox Judaism, Mr. Palilingan sometimes wears its adherents' telltale black and white clothing in public here and even in Jakarta.
''Most Indonesians have never met any Jews, so they think I'm from Iran or somewhere,'' Mr. Palilingan said. ''One time, a group of Islamic demonstrators came over and said, 'Salaam aleikum,' '' peace be upon you.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Toar Palilingan, 27, standing, and Oral Bollegraf, 50, prayed before a Sabbath meal in Manado. ''We're just trying to be good Jews,'' Mr. Palilingan said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED WRAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A 62-foot-tall menorah, possibly the largest one in the world and built on a mountain overlooking Manado, was paid for by the local government. (PHOTO COURTESY OF TOAR PALILINGAN) (A4)
 An abandoned building was once used for preparing the bodies of local Jews for burial in the Jewish cemetery in Surabaya. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED WRAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HANUKKAH (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

 
