

601 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Beleaguered Currency

 BODY:
The British pound is on the up and up. On Friday, it rose to $1.7330, its highest level against the dollar since March of 1989. The jump came after the release of trade figures that were slightly better than expected and another statement of commitment to high interest rates from John Major, the Chancellor of the Exchecquer. With London apparently finally committed to join the European Monetary System soon, the rally should continue. In Canada, concern over the constitutional crisis weakened the Canadian dollar so much that the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England intervened to support the bleaguered currency. After the Government said it might get an extension of the June 23 deadline for a constitutional accord, the Canadian dollar rebounded a little. 

Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	154.85	153.90	138.85	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6745	1.6885	1.9425	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1789	1.1698	1.1942	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.7330	1.7090	1.5680	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$349.50	$348.50	$377.00	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currecny: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (55%); 



602 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: Shared Space;
Germany Again Forces a Redefining of Europe

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
FIFTY years ago this summer, Germany had traumatized Europe for the second time in this tragic century: Austria had been annexed; Poland, France, Holland, Norway and Belgium had been defeated, Czechoslovakia and Denmark were occupied, and British troops had been driven into the sea from Dunkirk. The Battle of Britain in the skies over London lay ahead, as did the subsequent decision to turn instead on the Soviet Union. In the 12 short years of the Thousand-year Reich, Hitler, Himmler, Goebbels and Goering destroyed their country's good name and nearly destroyed the European civilization that had been marked indelibly by Germans like Bach, Beethoven, Goethe, Kant and Leibniz.
Yet, even in those dark hours, Germany's actions shaped the new Europe that rose out of the ashes of World War II. The consequences of German aggression and German barbarity divided the country and the continent for four decades; the United States was forced to define itself as a European power and the Soviet Union, with half of Europe in its clutches, got the opportunity to define itself as a superpower.
Today, West Germany is a democracy, not a dictatorship. It is also a loyal and respected partner of the NATO alliance and of the European Community whose commitment will not be in question after the 16 million East Germans and their new democracy become part of the Federal Republic, perhaps as early as the end of this year. 
In the West, two German generations have grown up in a free, open society with a remarkable economic stability never known in the brief few years of the Weimar Republic.
Even so, the idea of German unification causes anxiety among its neighbors, even for people who did not live through the war.
The reason, perhaps, is that for most Europeans, ''Germany'' has been a point of reference that has shaped their own idea of who they are today. And suddenly, the Germany they have known for 40 years will become, tomorrow, something very different. What, then, are its neighbors to make of themselves?
The whole European Community was built around a central lesson from the war: There would be no lasting peace or prosperity in Europe unless Germans had a stake in both. But even more than most of them realize, the other European states have defined themselves in the modern era by their relationship to Germany. When they worry about unification, they are worried about themselves.
 
The French View
Charles de Gaulle, for example, created a whole new modern idea of ''eternal France'' out of the resistance to German occupation that he almost single-handedly willed into existence with a speech broadcast from London 50 years ago last week. France, viewed as the pre-eminent military power of prewar Europe, had been deeply demoralized by its unexpected sudden defeat in 1940. Even 25 years ago, when the General was President and his Fifth Republic still in its infancy, French illustrated magazines were full of articles about the 25th anniversary of the German conquest.
Today, 20 years after de Gaulle's death, they are full of celebrations of him and the redemption he symbolizes, and President Francois Mitterrand finds it politically wise to be seen as close to Chancellor Helmut Kohl as de Gaulle was to Konrad Adenauer.
Perhaps no other country has defined itself by its relation to the Germans in recent times so much as the Soviet Union. Until Mikhail S. Gorbachev, every Soviet ruler since Stalin explained not only its fixation on military strength but also its political repression and economic backwardness by reference to the Great Patriotic War, as the struggle against the Nazis is usually called in Russian. Even Mr. Gorbachev recently asked Americans to understand that he could not simply accede to German unity without taking account of the sufferings of the 27 million Soviet citizens who died during the war, and of the feelings of their survivors, children and grandchildren.
But both the Soviet attitude toward Germans and the German attitude toward Russians have always been far more complex than the Nazi and Stalinist stereotypes allowed. Life is full of examples like the West German businessman living in Moscow in the late 1970's who had returned to the Soviet Union out of nostalgia, having been held as a prisoner of war in Siberia until the early 1950's.
When Russians over 40 speak any foreign language at all, it is most often German, picked up during the war or learned at school, and when they talk about Western consumer goods it is German quality and style they admire. For years the Germans, East and West, have been the Soviets' biggest trading partners.
But self-doubt and anxiety about the economic future are nowhere more acute today than in the Soviet Union, and this is one reason it agonizes about German unification even more than its former Eastern European satellites do. Another may be the realization that after unification, Germans will be the most likely advocates and agents of Western economic help for Soviet efforts to rebuild their defunct centrally planned economy.
This would suit both of them, the Soviet Union with its inferiority complex, and Germany with its impossible yearning to be loved as well as respected. It would also assuage the German sense of guilt, which is far stronger in relation to the Soviet Union and, because of the unique barbarity of the Holocaust, to Israel than it is to France, Britain, or the United States.
Some Germans also feel guilt toward Poland, where Willy Brandt, as West Germany's Chancellor in 1970, fell to his knees at the monument to the victims of the Warsaw ghetto uprising. Despite that symbolic gesture, German-Polish relations are deeply troubled today; the trouble is mainly over the definition of what Poland is.
Germany, which nearly destroyed Poland half a century ago, had to cede large areas of territory in order for Poland to be re-created, and last week finally gave up any claim to redraw the existing border by adopting a joint resolution of the East and West German parliaments.
But economists, politicians and diplomats in Poland acknowledge that whatever they do for themselves and whatever assistance they can get from the United States, their path to economic recovery will have to run through Germany. The Czechoslovak authorities under President Vaclav Havel have recognized this even more explicitly.
It is not only the countries that suffered under German occupation that have changed their ideas of themselves. Dunkirk and the Battle of Britain left their mark on British psychology about ''Europe,'' which many of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's admirers and detractors alike view the way she does, with profound ambivalence.
At the European Community summit meeting in Dublin this week, she can be expected to repel what the British see as attempts by bureaucrats in Brussels to limit the hard-won sovereignty of the British Parliament, saved -along with the country itself - by Churchill when he repelled the Nazis. Last Monday, she admitted that the prospect of a united Germany in a tightly integrated European community did cause her to feel ''a little bit of apprehension'' as well - apprehension about Britain in that kind of Europe, in which a united Germany, with 78 million people and a $1.3 trillion economy, would be by far the most powerful member.
Germans like Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who was 15 years old when the war ended, have defined themselves as Europeans and democrats for so many years that they have trouble understanding why their neighbors and the world can never absolve them for what their fathers' generation did. Unification could make Germans more self-assertive and impatient with the burden of guilt, or it could make them more self-confident and tolerant; nobody knows, so everybody worries.
 
Shifting Views
''Often people think two different things about Germany at the same time,'' said Francois Heisbourg, a former French diplomat who is now director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. ''Depending on what time of day it is and what mood you're in, you find yourself more or less worried. But I've never been terribly concerned about it. If there's any place that's not nationalistic these days, it's West Germany.''
Most people in Germany's smaller neighbors would agree, despite their jitters over occasional surges of right-wing German political feeling over the years. In the cobblestone squares of Brussels, people admit to anxiety, mostly about terms of trade. Lysiane D'Haeyere, director of a small publishing house, said: ''We feel a bit crushed. So much wealth, so much power. At first, we were all very happy for them. Now, we'll see.''
In the Czechoslovak spa town of Karlovy Vary, known to Germans as Karlsbad, Jiri Kovarik, the 47-year-old Mayor, said he thought the main threat from Germany after the currency unification that takes place next weekend would be too many East German tourists, newly armed with D-marks, laying waste to the shelves of local stores, and perhaps too many West German businesses buying up Czechoslovak hotels and enterprises as well.
There is another explanation for the ambivalence that many people in the neighboring states feel about unification, and that is the complicity of their own countries during the Nazi occupation. ''The resistance during the war was blown up afterwards to heroic proportions,'' said Hugo Claus, a Belgian Flemish novelist who came of age during the occupation. ''A lot of the Flemish people had seen the French as oppressors, and welcomed the Germans. After the war we discovered that everybody had been Belgian patriots.''
The lesson Europeans draw at the end of all this painful self-discovery could well be a new self-confidence, with which they can reassure themselves about German unification and succeed in making a united Germany as good a neighbor as West Germany has been all these years. Many of them already realize that the Germans might never have had their cataclysmic national nervous breakdown half a century ago if their neighbors had only had the foresight to treat them as wisely in 1919 as they did after it was all over in 1945.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORWAY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); DENMARK (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY, EAST; GERMANY, WEST; EUROPE

SUBJECT: REUNIFICATION OF GERMANY WORLD WAR II (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R



603 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Can Central America Win a War on Poverty?

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON

DATELINE: GUATEMALA

 BODY:
THE futility of efforts to attack the basic causes of Central America's endemic poverty preoccupied President Vinicio Cerezo one day three years ago as he sat in a hotel room with friends. Some topics, he complained, were so explosive they could not even be mentioned. Asked for an example, he paused. Then he replied, ''agrarian reform.'' In that instant, the chandelier fell from the ceiling with a crash.
That anecdote was told last week by a friend of the Guatemalan President to illustrate the roadblocks that confront the latest effort to end the poverty that has brought Central America a decade of civil war. 
The initiative, announced at the end of a three-day meeting of the area's five Presidents, is the most ambitious regional economic program since the birth of the Central American Common Market 30 years ago.
The strategy of the five Presidents - Mr. Cerezo, Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador, Rafael Callejas of Honduras, Rafael Calderon Jr. of Costa Rica and Violeta Barrios de Chamorro of Nicaragua - is to integrate their foundering economies and coordinate all aspects of development, from agriculture to tariffs, environmental protection to debt management. The leaders agreed to work together to revitalize their common market, renegotiate debt, set common tariffs and rebuild dilapidated infrastructures.
The plan got an immediate boost from the United States. Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d met with the Presidents in Antigua, a small city 30 miles west of the capital, and proposed an American-led effort to marshal international aid to the area, which is in its worst economic crisis in a century. ''This region has a historic opportunity today to realize three goals: democracy, disarmament and development,'' Mr. Baker said.
But neither plan even mentioned many underlying reasons for the poverty that ensnares millions of Central Americans. The initiatives will do little or nothing to break the economic grip of a small group of families. Neither do they contemplate reallocating land or improving the social safety net. They differ fundamentally from programs advocated by the guerrillas and left-of-center political parties. These see the root of conflict as a pervasive social imbalance that condemns millions to poverty. Peace, these groups say, depends on redividing the pie.
By contrast, the underlying assumption of the five conservative Presidents - indeed, the gamble implicit in their plan - is that they can buy social peace simply by increasing national wealth. The leaders hope to create social contentment merely by expanding their econonomies through increased entrepeneur-based development. This latest version of the rising-tide theory of development was perhaps best summarized by a saying used to introduce their final declaration. Taken from the Popol Yuh, the sacred book of the Maya-Quiche Indians of Guatemala, it said: ''That everyone rises up, that everybody be told, that no one group, nor groups among us, will be left behind.''
In the eyes of the five Presidents, the initiatives from Central America and the United States combined to mark a regional watershed. After a decade of ideological strife that has claimed an estimated 130,000 lives, they said this was the moment in which the region and its superpower ally finally turned their attention from the need to settle conflicts to the need to build prosperity. In this recognition of the role of economics, the five conservative leaders took a belated step toward acknowledging that the roots of Central America's crisis are social as much as political and that poverty, not militant leftism, is the greatest threat to stability.
 
Echoes of Failure
But while widely welcomed, the two plans had a familiar and hollow ring to many students of history. Almost 30 years ago, a newly inaugurated John F. Kennedy announced the Alliance for Progress - a 10-year, $100 billion program intended to forestall revolution through evolution. And in a comprehensive policy report on El Salvador, the so-called Kissinger Commission in 1984 proposed new economic aid. It recognized the social roots of the Salvadoran conflict and suggested a crash economic and ''human development'' program. Both plans quickly were undermined by the precedence given to fighting leftist revolution.
While the region's economies have expanded and been modernized to some degree in the years since 1961, neither the Alliance for Progress nor the Kissinger plan achieved a single one of its ambitious social goals. Today, the vast majority of the region's 30 million residents have living conditions and wage levels as bad as - often worse than -those at the beginning of the 1980's. In Managua, families build homes from discarded milk cartons. In San Salvador, long-time residents of the main dump complain of so much competition that they can no longer scavenge enough to feed their families.
Despite $3 billion in American aid over the last decade, Salvadoran wealth is as tightly concentrated as ever. While the rich spend $10 for a box of imported Raisin Bran, many poor families now call beans, a traditional staple, ''rich people's food.'' Government statistics show that the poorest 20 percent earned less than 4 percent of the country's income in 1985, the last year for which figures are available, while the richest 20 percent earned almost 55 percent. The gap is slightly larger than what existed in 1970.
Three decades of development efforts have done little but help feudal oligarchies seize the tools of industrialization. Meanwhile, murderous conflict, tight credit and soaring populations forced the offspring of peasant families to flock to cities in search of elusive factory or service jobs. Guatemala and San Salvador are estimated to have almost doubled in size to about 2 million residents.
 
Power to the Military
Simultaneously, the region has suffered the most rapid military buildup in its history. The Salvadoran, Nicaraguan, Honduran and Guatemalan forces more than doubled in size between 1981 and 1986. More than ever, the armed forces in all four countries are shadow governments with de facto veto power over civilians' decisions. ''He's only the President,'' a Honduran colonel recently said in rejecting a request from President Callejas to allow a visitor to enter the country. And opposition from the Sandinista Army forced President Chamorro to sharply curtail her efforts to cut the size of the armed forces.
Despite recent emphasis on conducting open and fair elections, civilians remain presidents largely in name. While they influence the agenda for debate, they remain powerless to confront entrenched interests, most often on the right. Although all five regional leaders have recognized that disarmament is a key to development, they didn't dare to discuss the issue. It was, they said, too explosive. Other volatile topics like population control and land redistribution were not even mentioned in the final communique.
So it remains difficult to see how the two initiatives will redress the region's imbalances and create a new consumer class, which economists like to point to as the root of social peace. ''There's no sense of retribution,'' a development expert said in reviewing the successes and failures at the summit. ''They're not righting historical wrongs, but they are trying to correct the fatal flaws.''

GRAPHIC: Grapg showing: Life expectancy; Literacy rate; Per capita gross domestic product; unemployment. (Source: World Factbook 1989)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMON MARKET (56%); CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMON MARKET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; GUATEMALA; EL SALVADOR; COSTA RICA; HONDURAS; NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); POLITICS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY; CEREZO, VINICIO (PRES); CRISTIANI, ALFREDO (PRES); CALDERON, RAFAEL ANGEL (PRES); CALLEJAS, RAFAEL LEONARDO (PRES); CHAMORRO, VIOLETA BARRIOS DE (PRES) ALFREDO CRISTIANI (70%); 



604 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
For Japanese Art Collectors, Acquisition Begins at Home

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:
IF high-rolling Japanese buyers are snapping up paintings by big-name Western artists - Van Gogh, Renoir and Lichtenstein -who's buying Japanese art?
The very same Japanese, along with a slowly increasing number of buyers from Western countries.
The booming Japanese economy and the dollar's slide relative to the yen have helped spur acquisitions by Japanese of Japanese art. Western collectors are beginning to sense that this art - growing scarcer and rising in price - is still a bargain in the overheated international art market. 
Among the factors driving the Japanese art purchases is a new blossoming of museums all over Japan, some set up by wealthy corporations and others by local governments.
''Traditionally, Japanese art has been undervalued and controlled by Japanese dealers,'' said Leighton Longhi, a major dealer in pre-l9th-century Japanese art who is based in New York. ''But prices have gone up tremendously in the past two years.''
The Japanese attraction for Western culture has made Western-style Japanese painters like Foujita, Kuniyoshi and Umehara very popular in Japan. But there is also a great interest in contemporary artists who follow traditional Japanese modes - Sugiyama, Hirayama and Kayama.
Last month, a painting by Tsuguji Foujita, an early 20th-century artist who worked in Paris and whose work blends Oriental and European styles, sold for $6 million at Christie's in New York, to a Japanese buyer. In April, a painting by Ryuzaburo Umehara, also an early 20th-century painter, was auctioned by Sotheby's in Tokyo to a Japanese dealer for more than $2 million.
The Japanese have long collected their own art such as ceremonial swords, lacquers and ceramics associated with the tea ceremony, a complex cultural ritual. But prices for this art have also risen. To the intense surprise of the Japanese art trade, at a Christie's auction last March in London, two pairs of ornate, 17th-century Japanese flower screens - estimated to bring between $300,000 and $600,000 apiece - were sold for more than $1 million each, to Japanese buyers outbidding Westerners.
''A few years ago, the dollar dropped in value, so Japanese collectors started paying what to us are very high prices for Western paintings,'' Mr. Longhi said. ''Then contemporary dealers in Japan said if Japanese pay that for Western art, we can start boosting our prices in the area of Foujita, Kuniyoshi and so forth. The price increases rolled over into classic Japanese art.''
According to Mr. Longhi, two types of new buyers have entered the market. ''Private people with new money in Japan,'' he said, ''and then people of wealth in the Western world who are starting to look at Japanese and Chinese art and see how undervalued it has been.''
Even so, he said, the number of Americans and Europeans who buy Japanese art remains small. In this country, aside from museums, only a few collectors buy top-flight Japanese art regularly, among them Mary Griggs Burke of New York, John Powers of Carbondale, Colo., and Joe D. Price of Bartlesville, Okla. Mr. Price's donation of money and the promise of his collection are the basis for a pavilion of Japanese art that opened two years ago at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
 
Largely Hidden Art Transactions
''Japanese art is a much more intimate trip than European,'' said Klaus Naumann, a German-born dealer in Japanese art who lives in Tokyo. ''To collect it, you need some understanding of Japanese customs. Besides, good traditional Japanese art is very hard to come by. It's in the hands of the wealthy, not found in secondhand stores.''
Transactions between dealers and clients in Japan are largely hidden, because of the luxury tax imposed on owners of art. ''Therefore, you don't hear about the real splashy prices that are paid for some things there,'' said Eric Zetterquist, a dealer based in New York. But he, like Mr. Longhi, suggested that Japanese art ''is still one of the best bargains in the art world, especially when you consider that until very recently, the works of some of the most important contributors to Japanese art were priced at under $1 million.''
Kazuko Shiomi, the president and chief executive officer of Sotheby's Japan, explained that so little art was available because Japanese families keep artwork bequeathed to them over generations. ''In Japanese interior decoration, only one or two pieces are put out at a time, and changed according to the seasons, visiting guests and so forth,'' Ms. Shiomi said.
The scarcity also reflects the interest of Japanese corporations. ''They buy just as many Japanese as Western paintings, except the market is quite local, so you don't hear about it internationally,'' Ms. Shiomi said.
Japan is also experiencing something of a museum boom. Older corporations have established generously endowed private museums, among them Idemitsu, Suntory and Bridgestone, as have an increasing number of newer businesses.
The success of the Japanese economy has also spawned a large number of museums set up by local government units. These so-called ''prefecture museums'' have been collecting both Japanese and Western art.
''Every prefecture now has its own huge, empty museum, and they're trying to fill it,'' said Barbara B. Ford, assistant curator of Asian art at the Metropolitan Museum, who specializes in Japanese art.
Joan Mirviss, a New York-based dealer in 18th-, 19th- and early 20th-century woodblock prints, paintings, screens and contemporary ceramics, says there are now more American customers for Japanese prints and paintings. ''In terms of subject matter, they are more broadminded than the Japanese,'' Ms. Mirviss said. ''They'll buy figurative prints and those depicting the Kabuki theater, which are not popular in Japan. Also things from the Meiji period in the late 19th century, and even 20th-century prints.''
Although Americans had been buying woodblock prints, also known as ukiyo-e, since the 1860's, she said, Japanese interest didn't become evident until the mid-1970's. ''As the Japanese became more affluent, more dealers arose in Japan, and they began coming to the West to repatriate the prints from auction houses and dealers,'' Ms. Mirviss said.
Prices of ukiyo-e prints are very low compared with Western art, ''but in the last three years they have escalated terrifically,'' Ms. Mirviss said. In 1985, an average work by Hokusai, one of the most famous woodblock artists, she pointed out, ''might have sold for from $4,000 to $6,000. Now, the same impression would sell for maybe $30,000. And it's solely due to Japanese demand.''
Most Western buyers, according to Mr. Longhi, are too late to form comprehensive collections of Japanese and Chinese art. ''But,'' he said, ''there will be more of them buying things of real esthetic value, rather than third-rate Impressionist paintings.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the market for Japanese art misstated which branch of an auction house sold two pairs of 17th-century flower screens for $1 million each. It was Christies in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Mount Asama'' (above) by Ryuzaburo Umehara was auctioned in Tokyo for more than $2 million in April; a six-panel 17th-century flower screen (top) sold for more than $1 million in March. (Sotheby's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ART; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; SALES; PRICES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE LEIGHTON LONGHI (71%); ART TRANSACTIONS (66%); KAZUKO SHIOMI (57%); TSUGUJI FOUJITA (57%); 



605 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Deregulation Is Nothing but a License to Steal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your two-part editorial in praise of deregulation (June 10-11) misses the point: the public needs protection from monopolistic industries.
Deregulation's downward pressure on wages, which you call ''loss of wage premiums,'' has resulted in a lower-paid work force running our transportation system. 
Why credit deregulation of the phone company for new communication devices? Who can say that they might not have been developed sooner and at lower cost to the consumer under regulation? And what about the expense and inconvenience for businesses and consumers who must use several competing classified directories, instead of one?
Some have made (and lost) billions buying and selling previously regulated corporations, exposing investors to huge losses on ''junk'' bonds. The half-trillion-dollar ripoff of the deregulated savings and loan system (which will cost each taxpayer thousands in the next decades) makes the Teapot Dome scandal look like a tea party.
Antitrust legislation and regulation of monopolistic industries were legitimate responses to the 19th-century robber barons. Now that these safeguards are being dismantled, how will the public be protected? Is the return of laissez-faire policies anything more than granting certain interests a license to steal?
 
JOHN GLASEL
President, Associated Musicians
of Greater New York, Local 802
American Federation of Musicians
 New York, June 13, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (97%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



606 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Deregulation Is Nothing but a License to Steal;
Only Consumers Lose

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Deregulation has worked,'' you say (editorial, June 11), but the funny thing is, consumers haven't heard about it. Take the airlines, telephone and cable industries.
In the airline industry, business travelers who don't want to stay over a weekend pay dearly for the right to be with their families. An over-the-weekend promotional fare on Eastern Airlines from New York City to Savannah, Ga., can be as low as $198, but zooms to $644 for those who want to be home by Friday. In regulatory days, customers paid a standard price lower than top fares today. Savannah is lucky; it still has major carrier service. Many cities now make do with commuter service at steep tariffs. 
While telephone deregulation has lowered long-distance rates, the cost of local service, the bulk of residential bills, has risen nearly 45 percent in the last five years. Some of the new communications companies - which often sell their services to hospitals, schools and hotels (captive audiences) - charge up to $1 for a local call and equally exorbitant rates for long distance.
Cable television deregulation has also meant higher prices for consumers. Communities used to negotiate set fees with cable companies. Now, the companies are unrestricted. Basic service in Manhattan with Paragon was $13.95 in 1987. Now, it is $16.95, an increase of 21.5 percent. A survey recently conducted by New York City showed heavy subscriber unhappiness with service in Manhattan, and the city is holding up franchise renewal. Nationally, rates have increased 43 percent since deregulation, 10 percent in 1989 alone, twice the rate of inflation.
Regulation protects the public when there are no alternatives. Until a true variety of consumer choices exists, deregulation will line the pockets of the few at the expense of the many.
 
ANDREW BLAU
 New York, June 15, 1990
 
The writer edits Telecommunications Consumer Coalition Newsletter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; TELEPHONES DEREGULATION (95%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); WRITERS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (74%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

PERSON: BLAU, ANDREW CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



607 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: High-Tech Monarch for National Insect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Choosing a National Bug,'' Nicholas Wade's Editorial Notebook (June 1), which pits socialistic against self-interested insects as candidates for a national bug, seems a curious critique of the American propensity to measure value in narrowly defined economic advantage.
One might argue that the honeybee, rather than socialist, is the ideal capitalist because it has sense enough to bank immense natural resources in its hive. However, Mr. Wade correctly rejects the honeybee as our national insect because it will soon be a very serious threat to children through interbreeding with the killer bee.
But demeaning the monarch butterfly as a frivolous creature caring only for today obscures its valid candidacy. The monarch, a truly American insect (not a bug), has the most fantastic navigation system and migration behavior of any animal on earth. Each fall the fresh monarchs born in the Northern United States search their genetic memory, pull up their computer program, and fly inerrantly for 2,000 miles to a winter sanctuary high in the Mexican mountains.
Then, these same individuals, protected by their chemical defenses, survive the winter and fly 1,000 miles back into the United States to establish a new spring generation. Just as the cold war has ended because of the intelligent wielding of information and defenses, so the monarch has survived for tens of thousands of years by employing its biological information and chemical defense systems.
What better symbol of American recognition of biological values beyond the crass could there be than by designating the marvelous monarch butterfly as our national insect?
 
LINCOLN P. BROWER
Professor of Zoology
University of Florida
 Gainesville, Fla., June 11, 1990

GRAPHIC: Photo of Butterfly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INSECTS; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COLD WAR (77%); ANIMALS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ZOOLOGY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CHILDREN (55%); 

PERSON: BROWER, LINCOLN P (PROF) NICHOLAS WADE (83%); 



608 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: The Civil Rights Act: White Men's Hope

BYLINE: By Julian Bond; Julian Bond, former Georgia State Senator, will be a visiting professor this fall at the University of Virginia.

DATELINE: Washington

 BODY:
President Bush and Congress have overlooked an important reason why they should immediately enact the Civil Rights Act of 1990: to help white men overcome their feelings of inferiority.
Let me explain. Many whites and some blacks now argue that preferential racial treatment creates deep- seated feelings of deficiency and mediocrity in its beneficiaries. They warn that race-conscious practices, in hiring or education, cast suspicion on the competence of those given an advantage. 
But if that is so, we need the new Civil Rights Act more than ever, to overcome the sense of inferiority that has afflicted American white men for years.
Think of it. For decades, white men have known they've received favored, front-of-the-line positions in jobs, education and the benefits of a race- conscious society.
Without having to compete with minorities or women, any white man, no matter what his qualifications, had a head start. All he needed was membership in the favored race and sex.
The knowledge that maids, porters, garbage collectors, unemployed teenagers and cotton pickers were suspicious of their credentials took a heavy psychic toll on white American males. Some even chose to remain unemployed rather than take a job or a place in a prestigious university solely because of their race.
''How would you feel,'' one said, ''if everyone knew you had your job just because you were white?''
Social scientists say white male inferiority complexes began to diminish with the passage of early civil rights laws in the 1960's, and when blacks and women began to enter the work force in larger numbers.
But even relaxing the discrimination - which had reserved jobs as diverse as Supreme Court Justice, professional baseball manager, big city mayor, U.S. Naval officer, professional quarterback, talk show host, serial killer and newspaper columnist and publisher for white men exclusively - did little to ease the cruel intimations of mediocrity that ran rampant among white males.
These feelings of inadequacy began to return during the Reagan years. Some white men adopted a victim complex, blaming the Federal Government and the courts for mistreating them. Last year's Supreme Court decisions were the final straw.
The Court made it harder for minorities to sue against white privilege and harder for women to litigate employment rules that discriminated against them. It guaranteed a return to favored status for white males.
''It's all I can take,'' a white investment banker said. ''I'm sure my gardener was laughing at me as I drove into town this morning. Then the waiter at the club had a funny smirk on his face. I've had it, I tell you!'' the anguished Anglo-Saxon mourned.
If President Bush has any compassion, he will move swiftly to remove the awful stigma of race.
These victims have suffered long enough. Free white men!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

TITLE: CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1990

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); MEN; CIVIL RIGHTS; HIRING AND PROMOTION CIVIL RIGHTS (94%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MEN (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); HOMICIDE (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); WRITERS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); ATHLETES (63%); MAYORS (63%); BASEBALL (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: BOND, JULIAN RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



609 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Region;
As Floria Changes Politics, His Foes Are Overwhelmed And His Allies Are Nervous

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
RELENTLESSLY over the last five months, Jim Florio, who took over the governorship of New Jersey on Jan. 16, has overwhelmed his enemies and unnerved his allies with a series of initatives that, as of last December, most politicians said a governor should not, would not or could not get done.
Mr. Florio asked the Legislature for a ban on assault weapons, an overhaul of the automobile insurance system, huge increases in income and sales taxes, stiffer penalties for polluters, and a new way to finance public schools that will pump billions into poor and middle-class school districts and hand the wealthy the tab. By the end of last week he had won them all.
On Thursday morning, when exhausted Democrats in the State Assembly gave Mr. Florio his final victory in the school financing plan, Florio aides bragged that they had changed more public policy in New Jersey in five months than other governors had in the previous decade. 
But the central question for New Jersey Democrats now is whether the man they have decided to follow, a high school dropout from Camden, is an emerging national figure blazing a path for a timid national Democratic Party, or a quirky ideologue leading his troops to political disaster.
''Florio now has a chance to become a significant player in the national Democratic Party,'' said Richard W. Roper of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. ''If his policies succeed, other Democratic leaders will have no choice but to listen.''
''But I don't know if he has been successful at explaining what he is doing, particularly that his programs will help potential supporters in the middle class,'' Mr. Roper added. ''If he can't, the Democrats in New Jersey will face very serious trouble.''
Mr. Florio sees his policies as more than a prescription for New Jersey ills; he sees them as the basis for successful Democratic politics. Although some Trenton politicians have reservations about his strategy, they have seen several major themes emerge.
 
Telling Voters the Bad News
First, Mr. Florio contends that the best approach to solving budget deficits is to levy the necessary taxes, make the unavoidable cuts and tell voters all the bad news up front. In the long run, he argues, voters will reward strong leadership.
Second, he says that the problems of public education and poverty must be addressed head on, with large infusions of money to poor and middle-income school districts. More money alone will not solve the problem, he concedes, but without it, poor and working-class districts cannot even begin to improve. The rationale, Mr. Florio maintains, is more than a liberal appeal to compassion. School aid represents economic self-interest in a state increasingly desperate for workers, he says, and patriotism in a nation whose power will increasingly depend on its abilty to compete in world markets.
Third, Democrats can tax the wealthy to invest in schools and infrastructure, he says, if they can put together a coalition of poor, blue-collar and middle-income voters. Mr. Florio crafted his income tax package to that end, placing most of the burden of the income tax increase on the top 17 percent of wage earners - families earning more than $150,000 a year.
As a supporter of the death penalty with a distinctly working-class bearing, Mr. Florio has always done well with such voters. Although many affluent school districts will now howl, Florio aides say they hope that with time middle-income parents will realize their children are better off. Mr. Florio's brand of blue-collar populism sets him apart from Democrats like Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts or Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, who have resisted the politics of class. To succeed at the polls, however, Mr. Florio must first prove that his aides have crunched their numbers correctly. In the long run he must also overcome the racial antagonisms that have separated lower- and middle-income whites from minority voters. And he must convince Democrats who voted for Ronald Reagan that they were victims, not beneficiaries, of the Republicans who governed in the 1980's.
''The difference between working people in the era of Roosevelt and working people in the era of Reagan is that, although they were suffering hardships in both, in the 1980's Reagan somehow convinced them that government was their enemy,'' Mr. Florio said. ''Our policies cannot be aimed just at the poor.''
Whatever the theory, Republicans were unanimous in the Legislature in decrying the Florio programs, saying that after instituting $2.8 billion in new taxes, Mr. Florio will quickly destroy the pro-business environment that his Republican predecessor, Thomas H. Kean, worked years to create. While Mr. Florio attempts to pit class against class, they say, they stand for economic growth that would benefit all.
Meanwhile, some grimly practical Democrats in the Legislature, who hold a narrow majority and are running for re-election next year, have another criticism: they are not convinced that working-class voters, or anyone else, will re-elect a party that raised their taxes.
Although they ask that their names not appear in print, a number of nervous Senators and Assemblymen point out that it is they who will first bear the brunt of voter wrath, not the Governor. He doesn't face re-election for three more years. If New Jersey is now Mr. Florio's political laboratory, they say, some of his followers are beginning to feel like little white mice.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jim Florio, who has brought radical changes to New Jersey in his first five months in office. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SALES TAX (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); GUN CONTROL (56%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); KERR, PETER JIM FLORIO (97%); 



610 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: SHOPPER'S WORLD;
Moscow Street Trade Heats Up

BYLINE: By Sarah Ferrell; Sarah Ferrell is the associate editor of The Sophisticated Traveler, a part 2 of The New York Times Magazine, which appears three times a year.

 BODY:
The Intourist bus pulls to a stop at the foot of Red Square and is immediately surrounded by young men hawking military hats, military belts and watches. The prices range from $5 for a belt (pungently scented leather with a handsome brass hammer-and-sickle buckle) or hat (several services are represented, all with colorful badges) to $20 or $25 for a watch (some bear the legend ''Perestroika,'' while others are of the military model). All prices are quoted in dollars.
This is theoretically illegal. For that matter, the sale and export of Soviet military goods is theoretically illegal. But the militiaman on duty in the square doesn't seem to notice - for one thing, he is busy fighting off a pack of aggressively mendicant gypsies who have also descended on the bus, and for another, he probably just doesn't care. Not in Moscow in the late spring of 1990. 
All of this might change momentarily. The militiaman might become interested in the black market (or free enterprise) transactions taking place under his nose, and the customs officials might start examining the luggage of departing visitors for contraband. Visitors to the Soviet Union might once again be restricted to making most of their souvenir purchases in the state-run Beriozka stores or joint-venture ''duty free'' stores that operate in some tourist hotels and airports, where prices are marked in rubles and rubles are computed at a rate of 1 ruble - approximately $1.60. (In Soviet banks, the rate is 6 rubles to the dollar; illegal dealing on the street brings about 10 rubles to $1, and offers of higher rates should be viewed with extreme caution.) While the hucksters at the foot of the bus will probably be the tourist's first experience of freelance souvenir vendors, they can be found at many points in almost any Soviet city. Prices are negotiable, depending upon one's bargaining skills and stamina, but most are so low that they are not worth quibbling about. The proferred wares range from crude to semi-exquisite, from T-shirts with a variety of silly legends ($5; not all of them made in the U.S.S.R.) and mass-produced Matryoshka nesting dolls ($5) to not-quite-museum-quality lacquered boxes ($40 to $60 in Moscow, but the shopper who plans to be in the Suzdal area will find higher quality at lower price).
The entrepreneurs themselves can be pests, ''swarming like flies - you want to swat them away,'' as one woman observed. It's hard even to eat in peace. In some of the grander restaurants the zakuski, or hors d'oeuvres, are accompanied with whispered offers of caviar for hard currency, while patrons departing such establishments can often be seen half concealing what look suspiciously like bottles of wine (the laws concerning the sale of alcohol are particularly strict). Any traveler who does not live to shop can get fed up with all this fairly soon.
A genteel shopping-cum-sightseeing excursion can, however, be managed. Many tourist itineraries now include a stroll along the Arbat, once the chief shopping street of the city, which was transformed into a pedestrian mall five years ago. For those who wish to stroll on their own, the most useful Metro stop is Arbatskaya, which brings you out at Arbat Square, historically (and arguably still) the artistic and cultural heart of Moscow. The Arbat begins with the late 18th-century building housing the Praha Restaurant; from there it runs a crooked course for about half a mile, terminating at the Hotel Belgrade. An hour should be sufficient to sample its amenities.
The Arbat has been tarted up with pretty 19th-century-style street lamps; it is lined with low brick buildings, mostly late 18th and early 19th century, that have been painted in the simultaneously brilliant and pastel colors characteristic of Russian houses and palaces. There are restaurants, cafes, theaters and shops; notable among the last are an antiquarian bookstore and antique and consignment shops whose windows merit attention. (One, in fact, merits a stare, with its prominent display of a large bronze bust, incongruously Art Nouveau in style, of Stalin smiling benignly at some little children.) Even on a rainy afternoon, the scene is animated, with street artists knocking out quick charcoal portraits, more gypsy beggars, impassioned orators and chic Muscovites (black leather jackets and, for the young women, lace-patterned black stockings are much favored) out for a promenade. There are places to have your photograph taken with such props as a bench in the form of a lion or a giant champagne bottle, and an ice cream establishment with outdoor tables - still something of a rarity. A plaque at No. 53, about halfway up the street, commemorates Pushkin's residence there in 1831.
Vendors do not swarm on the Arbat. Rather, their wares are modestly set out on the deep windowsills or, in the case of drawings or paintings, tacked to the walls. Among the goods for sale (it is worth noting that prices are given first in rubles, then in dollars at the black-market rate, and that dollars change hands discreetly) are good-quality boxes painted with fairy tale scenes and delicately painted Matryoshka dolls ($50 to $60). Barrettes painted with folkloric themes are $5, while competent, decorative little watercolors of local scenes are $10. A trio of babushka-ed women, themselves Matryoshka-shaped, clutch coarsely crocheted white table mats to their tummies; at first glance, the mats look like part of the costume, but they, too, are for sale.
One of the surprises of a shopping stroll along the Arbat is the frequency of religious and political imagery in the goods displayed. There is, for example, the set of nesting dolls in which each doll holds an ever more miniature icon. And there are the papier-mache Easter eggs: one ($45) is about the size of an ostrich egg, lacquered a glossy black, with, on one side, an image of Christ painted in the iconic style within a gold oval. (The reverse is decorated with another gold oval bordered with flowers and the legend ''X B,'' for ''He is risen''). Saints and Crucifixion scenes appear among the watercolors and oil paintings - many of which, unfortunately, look as if they should have been executed on velvet instead of canvas.
THE big bronze bust of Stalin aside (and that, after all, is in an antique shop), the political art runs to the sometimes incomprehensible. The satirical intent of a drawing of the Statue of Liberty, set askew, her torch holding the Kremlin, is fairly easy to figure out, but other works in the same genre require a greater familiarity with local figures than the average tourist is apt to have.
Ah, but the average tourist will certainly recognize Gorbachev, and the Arbat is one of several sources for what must surely be the Souvenir of the Year. Yet another variant on the Matryoshka doll, the Souvenir of the Year is a Gorby doll, complete with birthmark and ''Perestroika'' banner, which opens to reveal a beetle-browed and bemedaled Brezhnev, which opens upon a Khrushchev doll, clad in a peasant blouse and carrying an ear of corn, which opens to disclose an avuncular, pipe-smoking Stalin doll, which opens, finally, on a tiny, topcoated Lenin. Read into this what you will, but the object is a giggle, and if the $30 it commands seems stiff in view of the rather crude workmanship, it is a small price to pay for becoming the envy of your friends back home. (Actually, it's not a bad price at all, compared to the 47 rubles, or approximately $75, charged for an identical doll in a Russian-Irish joint venture ''duty free'' shop in a tourist hotel in Leningrad.) There are, to be sure, a few things that are not widely available on the touristic black market, and for these you will have to repair to a Beriozka store. Consider, for instance, the little imitation metal busts of Lenin, which may soon be as exotic a souvenir as anything found on the street. An average-sized one (still small enough to pack conveniently) costs about $8, and each comes with a certificate of authenticity including the name of the sculptor, the name of the art factory and the date upon which it was cast. And they are infinitely exportable. Even if the rules suddenly change and everything else is confiscated, you can be sure of bringing your Beriozka Lenin home. But keep the sales slip, just in case.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bust of Lenin, on sale in a state-run Beriozka store. Soviet Army hat, and Navy belt. (Bill Aller/The New York Times Studio); lacquered Easter eggs, right; artists on the Arbat selling their paintings, below. (Vladimir Svartzevich/BONA Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; VENDORS, STREET CURRENCIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (67%); TOURISM (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); 

PERSON: FERRELL, SARAH



611 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: What's Doing In;
San Francisco

BYLINE: By Katherine Bishop; Katherine Bishop reports for The Times from San Francisco

 BODY:
While there was an automatic assumption that he would, of course, love it, most people in San Francisco never guessed that Mikhail S. Gorbachev would emerge as the city's biggest booster. But on his visit earlier this month, the Soviet president declared that if he were President George Bush, he would charge a tax for the privilege of living here.
The international attention drawn by President Gorbachev's visit and his comments about the city were an important bench mark in its recovery from last October's devastating earthquake: the official acknowledgement that San Francisco has re-emerged as a prime destination for travelers.
The city has already regained its convention business and diverse groups ranging from the Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barber Shop Quartet Singing to the American Council for Polish Culture will be gathering for their annual conventions this summer.
But tourism is still suffering; weekend and daytrip travelers are still exhibiting reluctance to return. While hotel and restaurant trade has been sluggish all over the city, Chinatown, North Beach and Fisherman's Wharf remain especially hard hit because the quake-damaged Embarcadero Freeway around the wharf area and the Fourth Street and Sixth Street offramps of Interstate 280 remain closed. 
This month new signs were placed around town to help visitors find their way to the popular sightseeing spots, each bearing a symbol for the area: a crab for Fisherman's Wharf, a Chinese lantern for Chinatown and a map of Italy for North Beach. A new program that provides free validated parking at a large garage at 250 Clay Street with shuttle vans to North Beach is also aimed at short-term visitors.
One positive result of the earthquake is that San Francisco is taking a careful look at its economic, cultural and architectural future with a willingness to consider fresh ideas about how to tackle old problems. This summer an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art (in the War Memorial Veterans Building at Van Ness Avenue and McAllister Street; 415-863-8800) titled ''Visionary San Francisco'' presents drawings and models of different visions of the city looking toward the 21st century.
 
Coming Events
Summer visitors will be among the first to see the just-opened permanent exhibit at the California Academy of Sciences (415-750-7145) in Golden Gate Park. Titled ''Life Through Time,'' it takes viewers on a journey of more than three billion years of evolution using fossils, reconstructed skeletons, models and living plants. Moving from single-celled organisms in the sea to early land animals, including an automated eight-foot-long model of a millipede and a three-foot scorpion, the exhibit continues through the age of dinosaurs to that of mammals. It includes re-creations of the plant life and the earth's changing topography, such as the tropical swamp that was Wyoming 45 million years ago. The academy, which also includes the Steinhart Aquarium and Morrison Planetarium, is open every day from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission is $4, $2 for youths aged 12 to 17, $1 for children 6 to 11, free for children 5 and under.
The annual Fourth of July celebration at Crissy Field begins with music from rock and roll to reggae at 2 P.M. with special children's programing from 4 to 7:30 P.M. Fireworks begin at 9:15 P.M. Visitors are advised to dress warmly and bring a flashlight. For parking and other information call 415-556-8483.
The Pacific States Crafts Fair offering the jewelry, clothing, pottery and furniture of 350 craftsmen will be at the Fort Mason Center (415-896-5060) from Aug. 10 to 12. Doors open at 11 A.M.; entry fee: $5, free for children under 12. A separate exhibition of folk art of the Soviet Union will also be at the center until July 29.
The Midsummer Mozart Festival runs through July at the Herbst Theater with a chamber music series on Monday nights and an orchestra series on Wednesday nights. A gala concert with selections from ''Don Giovanni'' takes place July 28 at Davies Symphony Hall. Call 415-552-3656 for ticket information.
The Encore Theater Company will present Shakespeare's ''Pericles'' in July and, throughout August, Howard Korder's ''Boy's Life,'' which was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize. Tickets are $10; call 415-567-6076.
 
Shopping
Two areas outside the usual downtown shopping district offer an array of small, creative shops that are worth an afternoon of browsing. Start with lunch at one of the city's delightful restaurants, the Zuni Cafe (415-552-2522) at 1658 Market Street, which serves food with a Mediterranean influence, before perusing the Art Deco furnishings at Decorum at 1612 Market. Another fascinating shop is Red Desert at 1632 Market; most of its cactus plants can be shipped nationwide.
Across the street at 1645 Market is Shades, which stocks a huge selection of 50's and 60's sunglasses as well as contemporary models.
At this point, one has arrived at one of the tiniest and most intriguing shopping streets in the city - a little alley called Brady. At No. 6 is House Party, crammed with 50's originals, which are in demand here: pink clock radios and chairs covered in furry, leopard-patterned fabric. Next door at No. 6, Vero offers contemporary home furnishings, jewelry and gifts, many of them one-of-a-kind designs by the owners. Bellocchio at No. 8 creates wreaths and other dried flower decorations, sachets, potpourri and brides' wedding headpieces. At No. 10, Telaio sells one-of-a-kind dresses and handmade silk scarves, gloves, handbags and jewelry by some of San Francisco's best young designers.
Next, walk a block or so east to Van Ness Avenue and take any of the several buses going north. Transfer at Sacramento Street to the No. 1 bus going west and get off at Baker Street.
Virginia Breier Contemporary and Traditional Crafts at 3091 Sacramento is a showcase of jewlery and home furnishings. Brava Strada at 3247 Sacramento is spare and sleek with modern Italian leather goods and jewelry. A small, well-chosen collection of Oriental antiques can be found at D'Arcy Collection at 3255 Sacramento while Vignette at 3625 Sacramento has a large selection of gifts and contemporary household decorations. Across the street at 3640 Sacramento, Button Down offers fine wool and linen men's clothing.
 
Where to Eat
Those who find that the names of their favorite dishes all end in vowels will want to seek out risotto or gnocchi at Enoteca Lanzone, a lovely Italian restaurant in the Opera Plaza complex near the Civic Center (601 Van Ness Avenue; 415-928-0400). The rooms house the owner's collection of paintings, sculpture and pottery. Prosciutto with pears and venison-stuffed ravioli in sage butter for two with a bottle of Cinque Terre is $65.
The dynamic new kid on the block is Cityblock just off a charming spot known as South Park in the up-and-coming South of Market Street area (101 South Park; 415-543-3663). The spare concrete and glass interior can make late Saturday night dinner a deafening experience, but the bustling scene is great fun. The inventive food is served in large portions. Two people can split the appetizer of fried wonton skins layered with sashimi and soy-wasabi vinaigrette and then each can go on to roast free-range chicken in a lemon and mustard demi glace with savory bread pudding and grilled squash for $40 plus wine.
For the more adventurous, the trend-setting Miss Pearl's Jam House offers wonderful food amid a campy Caribbean decor on the fringes of the down-at-the-heel Tenderloin District (601 Eddy Street; 415-775-5267). The youthful crowd of artists, models, writers and wannabes eats chicken-mango sausage with beer-basted shallots, salmon in Jamaican curry sauce and grilled duck breast with sweet potato puree. Dinner for two: about $50 plus wine.
For a casual breakfast or lunch within strolling distance of both Chinatown and Fisherman's Wharf, stop at Caffe Freddy's in North Beach (901 Columbus Avenue; 415-922-0151). Morning offerings include warm currant scones or a pizzetta with cheese, spinach, rosemary and roasted potatoes. For lunch there are pizza and sandwiches (roast chicken with basil pesto on herb focaccia bread, for example). About $20 for two; no credit cards accepted. Service is at a laid-back pace.
 
Where to Stay
The plush Portman Hotel has new owners and a new name - the Pan Pacific (500 Post Street; 415-771-8600) - but there are still luxury automobiles to whisk guests to and from the airport and legions of white uniformed young men to open doors and carry luggage. Rooms are decorated in hushed tones of beige, rose, gray and mauve with Oriental-inspired furniture, concealed minibars and televisions and large marble baths with telephones and small TV's. All sorts of extras can be ordered, including exercise bicycles. A minimum-rate room with queen-size bed is $175 for two. Suites begin at $550 and rise into the stratosphere. Parking is an additional $20 a night.
Also downtown, the elegant Four Seasons Clift Hotel (Geary at Taylor Street; 415-775-4700) is one of the city's most beautiful smaller hotels. The lobby combines wood paneling and crystal chandeliers and a small seating area for drinks or tea. The spectacular Art Deco Redwood Room serves as a cocktail lounge while the classic French Room is one of the nicest places in town to have breakfast. Dishes include ginger molasses griddle cakes with fresh raspberry compote, brioche French toast or eggs benedict on buttermilk biscuits. Reduced cholesterol and sodium dishes are available. Rooms are decorated in tones of blue and rose in comfortable, traditional furniture and the staff inquires after the guest's needs by name. Double rooms range from $175 to $285 with some rooms specially priced at $160 to $215 for weekend arrival.
Among less costly hotels, the Chancellor (433 Powell Street; 415-362-2004) offers a superior location one-half block from Union Square. During refurbishing two years ago, the lobby's original arching windows and ornate plaster moldings were uncovered and restored, creating a light, welcoming space. The 140 rooms are traditionally decorated in warm tones of beige and moss green, and nonsmoking rooms are available. Rooms for two are $95 to $105, and a two-room suite is $155.
Those seeking a sense of humor in their accommodations should try the Phoenix Inn (601 Eddy Street; 415-776-1380). The owners have taken an unattractive two-story motel on the fringe of the Civic Center and transformed it into a coral and turquoise 50's fantasy that manages to be both nostalgic and trendy and attracts luminaries like Laurie Anderson and Wim Wenders. Rooms are comfortably furnished, with the work of local artists on the walls and a television channel that plays movies filmed in San Francisco (''Vertigo'' and ''The Maltese Falcon,'' for example). All of the rooms face an oval swimming pool painted in bold graphics by the New York artist Francis Forlenza. Rooms for two are $89. Parking is free in an open lot of questionable security.
Budget choice: Pensione San Francisco (1668 Market Street; 415-864-1271), which charges $49 for two, including Continental breakfast.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Golden Gate Bridge; Outside the California Academy of Sciences; At Virginia Breier's. Phoenix Inn pool. (Photographs by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times); Map of San Francisco; Chart listing San Francisco's Vital Statistics. (Source: Runzheimer International, San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, The Times Books World Weather Guide)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VAN NESS FELDMAN (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RESTAURANTS; HOTELS AND MOTELS EXHIBITIONS (85%); EARTHQUAKES (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); MAMMALS (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RETAILERS (69%); ANIMALS (60%); 

PERSON: BISHOP, KATHERINE GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



612 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 34, Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslavia

 BODY:
To the Editor: Robert D. Kaplan's article on Ljubljana, Slovenia (Travel, April 1), paints an inaccurate picture of Yugoslavia's currency situation. His figures of 125,000 dinars or $2.50 for two plum brandies and a cup of coffee probably put his visit in October of last year, when the dollar was valued at 50,000 dinars. 
He is correct in his assessment of the economic situation at the time. Inflation of 2,000 percent a year did indeed render life miserable. Having lived in Zagreb for four months under such conditions, I can attest to the difficulties this imposed on one's daily life.
In one fell swoop, however, inflation was all but eliminated on Jan. 1, 1990. The Yugoslav government at that time instituted a revaluation of the dinar that tied the Yugoslav currency to the West German mark at the rate of 7 dinars to 1 mark. The policy has held; no significant inflation has since occurred. Inflation that had seen prices double every two months now equals West Germany's rate of 2 or 3 percent.
This Yugoslav economic miracle is a fascinating case study. Pity that few have taken notice.
 
ERIC S. BEST
 Chapel Hill, N.C.
 
Robert D. Kaplan replies: The figures I cited were accurate for the time of my visit in late October. The Jan. 1 currency reform was one of many economic reforms in Yugoslavia's recent history. It wasn't apparent until weeks later that this reform would work out as well as it did.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: SLOVENIA (94%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); 

CITY: LJUBLJANA, SLOVENIA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; LJUBLJANA (YUGOSLAVIA)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); 

PERSON: BEST, ERIC S; KAPLAN, ROBERT D ROBERT D KAPLAN (76%); 



613 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 19, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Staying on the Safe Side

BYLINE: By James Barron

 BODY:
An American woman was enjoying a midday walk on a quiet side street in Florence when a motorcycle roared by, slowing just long enough for the motorcyclist to grab the woman's leather shoulder bag. She clung to the strap, but it broke and the motorcyclist sped off with her passport, her traveler's checks, wallet and camera.
If only it had been an isolated incident. There are no statistics on how many Americans are robbed or assaulted while traveling in foreign countries, but the State Department warned last month that crime was a growing problem worldwide. The Soviet press agency Tass, for example, reported that crime in the Soviet Union rose 32 percent in 1989, compared with 1988. In Rio de Janeiro, murders increased from 2,826 in 1980 to 7,654 last year. And even in Tokyo, which has extremely low crime rates per capita (there were 121 murders last year), police are worried about increasing numbers of larcenies by foreign visitors against foreign visitors. 
Nonetheless, some world cities have enviable safety records. In Tokyo, passers-by leave unattended luggage alone. In Geneva, crime is so rare that purse snatchings are reported in the local papers. And in Vancouver, British Columbia, there is little violent crime , though car thefts have risen markedly. In Hong Kong, the concern is whether or not the pearls are real.
While there are substantial variations in safety from city to city , criminologists at the Rand Corporation, a research organization in Santa Monica, Calif., say that the worldwide crime rise is due in part to drugs. Tourists - and their cash and easily sold cameras and personal stereos - are targets for addicts.
Whatever your destination, there are precautions to take before leaving home, as well as on the road. The American Society of Travel Agents, a trade group representing 21,000 agents in 129 countries, urges travelers to make several copies of passports, traveler's checks, credit cards, and airline tickets and other travel documents. The society says one copy should be left with a relative or friend at home. Another should be stowed in a suitcase away from the originals. Take most of your money in traveler's checks rather than cash; record the serial numbers, denominations and location of the issuing bank or credit agency. Keep this information separate from the checks.
If you carry a shoulder bag, keep it closed when you are on the street and hold it close. Do not carry a wallet in your hip pocket or inside jacket pocket, but in a front pants pocket. If you are driving, carry handbag or camera in the center of the car, out of reach of thieves who reach through windows. Be alert in places like train stations that are full of tourists. At the beach, don't lock clothes and valuables in your rented car.
The State Department suggests booking a hotel room between the second and seventh floors - high enough to deny burglars easy access and low enough for fire equipment to reach.
Following are safety profiles of 22 world cities, arranged by continent, and particular scams to watch out for, as reported by Times correspondents and contributors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rickshaw driver and an unwary visitor on a street in Hong Kong. (Ray Cranbourne/Black Starr for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (55%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%); STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); VEHICLE THEFT (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES



614 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 32, Column 6; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Libya

 BODY:
To the Editor: Regarding a recent letter (Letters on Travel, April 8), your readers should be advised that travel to Libya is subject to severe restrictions under Federal law.
The use of an American passport to travel to or through Libya has been prohibited since December 1981. Penalties for misuse of a passport include fines of up to $2,000 and imprisonment of up to five years under Title 18 of the United States Code.
Since January 1986, travel-related transactions by United States citizens or residents with regard to Libya have been prohibited by the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, which effectively prohibit all travel by Americans to Libya for employment, recreational or research purposes. It is also illegal for travel agents and airlines to sell or book tickets to Libya in the United States. Violators are subject to both criminal and civil penalties under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The only exceptions are for (1) travel and residence by close family members of Libyan nationals when the U.S. citizen or resident has registered with the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control or with the Embassy of Belgium in Tripoli or (2) travel by journalists regularly employed in such capacity by a news-gathering organization.
Questions concerning the Libyan Sanctions Regulations should be addressed to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. 20220; 202-376-0392.
 
R. RICHARD NEWCOMB
Director
Office of Foreign Assets Control
Department of the Treasury

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); BELGIUM (52%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (69%); NEWS REPORTING (66%); 

PERSON: NEWCOMB, R RICHARED (DIR)



615 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14, Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
The Bonding Market

BYLINE: BY WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
MRS. GORBACHEV and Millie FITGbondedFNMG.'' That good news was the word from Barbara Bush and must have caused much head-scratching at Tass. They knew that Millie was the name of the Bushes' (which should be pronounced bush-iz-zizz) English springer spaniel, sometimes referred to irreverently as the First Dog, but what means FITGbondedFNMG?
It has nothing to do, in this sense, with promissory notes, with aging whisky in a warehouse that has been insured, or with Ian Fleming's hero, 007. Nor does it refer to the coating of teeth with adhesive resins, to a sadomasochistic game, or to the FITGbonds of matrimonyFNMG, though that notion of ''ties'' - from FITGbandFNMG, ''something that constricts'' - offers a clue to the new meaning. 
FITGBonding FNMG(the gerund form is the most common) is a word being lifted from psychology. (When I am ambivalent, I claim to be FITGtornFNMG, because I am of two minds about FITGambivalentFNMG, and have a block about slipping into psychological jargon with FITGconflictedFNMG.) ''FITGBonding FNMGwas first emphasized in the late 1950's,'' we are informed by L. Michael Honaker, an executive of the American Psychological Association who apparently has a hang-up about his first name, ''primarily in the work of John Bowlby. The term is taken from ethology, the study of animal behavior.''
Early studies of the attachment process spoke of FITGimprinting FNMG- as adult birds imprint their behavior patterns on chicks - and this needful knowledge grows as the newborn attaches to its own species.
Students of human attachment, who took into account Freud's discussion of the libidinal feelings of baby to mother (which laymen like to call ''love''), seized upon the word FITGbondingFNMG, and that term soon shook FITGattachment FNMGloose.
''FITGBonding FNMGis a relationship,'' Mr. Honaker says, ''in which a person maintains or restores proximity to another individual. Often it involves a tendency to defend that other person, and the attachment is sometimes exclusive or preferential.''
The Longman Dictionary of Psychology and Psychiatry defines the term as ''a close attachment, or affiliation . . . present in normal behavior but absent in . . . the sociopathic personality.''
What about FITGmale bondingFNMG? This is what used to be called ''camaraderie'' or good fellowship, a hearty form of friendship now viewed with amused contempt by some feminists. In a 1979 reference to a Babylonian legend, Elizabeth Fisher wrote that ''Buried within . . . the Gilgamesh epic is an adolescent-male myth of the wonderful world without women, which still surfaces in male writings. It is the earliest extant tale of male bonding and the diabolic influence of women.''
These sinister excesses are no part of what most of us mean by FITGbondingFNMG. Non-psychologist fathers like to take a few days off from work to bond with newborn infants, and owners of just-purchased puppies need bonding time to wean the young dogs away from the alarm clocks placed in their beds, or pallets, to resemble the beat of their mother's heart. (I put an electric clock in the kennel, and the lonely pup howled all night; where do you find a clock that ticks anymore?) ''Getting to know and love'' is the current meaning of FITGbondingFNMG, a word that fills the need for a term to describe a stage beyond FITGbefriendingFNMG. It now runs between people as well as between people and animals. The First Lady's spokeswoman, Anna Perez, reported that Millie followed Raisa Gorbachev around the White House residential quarters and ''quivered with pleasure whenever Mrs. Gorbachev spoke to her,'' a sure sign of FITGbondingFNMG.
 
SUMMER READING
SUMMER READING FNMGIS A phrase that means ''the sort of book that you take to the beach, which can be suntan oil-stained and sprinkled with sand without making the reader feel anything worthwhile has been destroyed; escapist pap.''
Not always true. Summer vacations or long weekends offer time for reflection and regeneration of the mind cells. Here is a sack of 10 books I have been setting aside for reading on holiday, especially suitable for language mavens with a foreign policy bent.
The trick is to mix the light and heavy, but to stick to the literate or at least provocative - by elevating your reading, you improve your writing or at least tickle your thinking.
''One, by One, by One'' by Judith Miller (Simon & Schuster, $21.95), a stunning report on the ways six countries are handling the memory of the Holocaust.
''The Sooner Spy,'' a breezily comic spy novel narrated by an Oklahoma politician, by Jim Lehrer, the only television anchor who writes funny novels (Putnam, $19.95).
''The Impoverished Superpower,'' this year's bible for foreign-policy hard-liners, Henry S. Rowen and Charles Wolf Jr., eds. (ICS Press, San Francisco, $29.95).
''Jubilee Jim and the Wizard of Wall Street'' by Donald Porter (Dutton, $19.95), a historical novel about Jim Fisk and his partners in greed, power and good fun - a must for today's Trumpniks.
''The Bible and Us: A Priest and a Rabbi Read Scripture Together'' by Andrew M. Greeley and Jacob Neusner, a not-so-odd coupling of prolific iconoclasts who team up to offer a lively entrance to exegesis (Warner, $24.95).
''On Liberty and Liberalism'' by Gertrude Himmelfarb, how the conflicting views inside the head of one man - John Stuart Mill - foreshadowed today's political argument ($10.95 from ICS Press - that's two for these guys, and I never heard of them before).
''Business Buzzwords'' by Michael Johnson, from FITGgolden hello FNMGto FITGgorbasmFNMG, the tough new jargon of British business, published in London by Blackwell; pick one up if you get over there, and achieve a high FITGpass-along rateFNMG.
''The Road to a Free Economy'' by Janos Kornai (Norton, $16.95), a plan for taking Hungary from socialism to a market system, timely enough to enable me to drop the ideas on the heads of visiting apparatchiks.
''Conflicts Unending'' by Richard N. Haass, about the need for ripeness in negotiation by a current National Security Council member (Yale University Press, $22.50).
''Why Blacks, Women and Jews Are Not Mentioned in the Constitution'' by Robert A. Goldwin, who has a Locke on our political history (A.E.I. Press, Washington, $16.95). Some of these authors I don't even know. Clifford Irving has a new novel I want to see, and Letitia Baldrige is taking the fiction plunge, too. But that's for the fall; this bag of 10 will do the trick on the beach. (FITGAt FNMGthe beach? No; the idiom is FITGon FNMGthe beach, FITGat FNMGthe shore and FITGin FNMGthe mountains.) OPEN THE DOOR OUR MUCH-ABUSED ATTORNEY General, born Richard L. Thornburgh, prefers that people call him FITGDickFNMG, even in print. Our Director of Management and Budget, Richard G. Darman, who has never run for public office, likes FITGRichardFNMG, and that's how he is addressed.
Defense Secretary Cheney leaned toward FITGDickFNMG, but the Pentagon brass resisted. ''Stuff is coming across my desk signed FITGRichard B.FNMG, but I'm still signing FITGDickFNMG,'' he said. That caused Dick Thornburgh to send this limerick: To be ''Richard'' or ''Dick,'' <?><?>my friend, Is a quandary that seems <?><?>not to end. But opting for ''Dick,'' You'll learn very quick, Reinforces your streamlin<?><?>ing trend!
That advice from counsel did it; Mr. Cheney's formal name is no longer FITGRichardFNMG, but FITGDickFNMG. (His friends call him FITGSecdef

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NAMES, PERSONAL PSYCHOLOGY (90%); ZOOLOGY (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); DOGS (77%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (75%); DEBT NOTES (71%); BIRDS (69%); ORNITHOLOGY (69%); ANIMALS (69%); LITERATURE (63%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; THORNBURGH, RICHARD L (ATTY GEN); CHENEY, RICHARD B (SEC) DICK CHENEY (60%); 



616 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24, Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4589 words

HEADLINE: The Poppers and the Plains

BYLINE: By ANNE MATTHEWS; Anne Matthews directs the nonfiction writing program at Princeton University.

 BODY:
BUFFALOES THUNDER ACROSS POSTERS, POSE FOR BUMPER STICKERS and glower from coffee mugs in Frank Popper's crowded office at Rutgers University in New Jersey. There is even a sack of dried buffalo droppings. ''Genuine Virgin Buffalo Chips,'' the label reads. ''Pioneer Fertilizer and Fuel. Not for Microwave Ovens. Contents Public Domain.''
Frank Popper, chairman of the Rutgers urban studies department and an international expert on land-use planning, and his wife, Deborah Epstein Popper, a Rutgers geographer, want to convert much of America's prairie outback into public domain for its original residents - the buffalo. According to their research, vast areas in the 10 Great Plains states - from the 98th meridian to the Rockies - are already experiencing or will undergo a sharp decline in population and prosperity.
In Nebraska, for instance, says Deborah Popper, the distressed locales are found in counties ''that have at least a 50 percent population loss since 1930. An over-10-percent loss between 1980 and 1988. Four people or fewer per square mile. High median age. Twenty percent or more in poverty. New annual construction investment under $50 per capita. All very bad news.'' 
Over the next 30 years, the Poppers argue, the depressed areas should become a huge reserve, more than 139,000 square miles of open land and wildlife refuge. That zone, which the Poppers call the Buffalo Commons, includes much of the western Dakotas, western Nebraska and eastern Montana; portions of Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, and selected counties in Colorado, New Mexico and Wyoming (map on page 26).
Set in place, the Buffalo Commons - most likely to be administered by a consortium of government agencies and private groups - would be the world's largest national park, an act of ecological restoration that would, the Poppers contend, boldly reverse more than 100 years of American history. Commons visitors would once again see the heart of the continent as Lewis and Clark first knew it, a true frontier of waving grass and migrant game.
The Buffalo Commons idea came to the Poppers late in the winter of 1987, while they were stuck in six-lane traffic on the New Jersey Turnpike heading into Manhattan. Their moment of inspiration, deep in the industrial wasteland, has turned these academics into the most controversial pair to wander the West since Bonnie and Clyde.
Originally, the Buffalo Commons was only an exercise in land-use theory. Both Poppers assumed their prescription for the Plains was destined, like most academic efforts, for obscurity. To see their research find an audience - regional, national and international - has startled, pleased and sometimes alarmed them. ''We wanted to stimulate public debate,'' says Deborah Popper, ''not turn into public figures ourselves.''
Reaction to their proposal in the Great Plains has been strong: people either love it or hate it. Among the Poppers' more vigorous supporters are the Plains' original buffalo hunters, especially the Sioux. ''Brilliant! The best idea I've heard in years,'' says Vine Deloria Jr. A lawyer and American Indian activist of long standing, author of ''Custer Died for Your Sins,'' he is a faculty member at the University of Colorado. ''As you might imagine,'' Deloria adds, ''the Poppers' research has major implications for South Dakota tribal land claims. We're very, very interested.''
Detractors are equally vocal. ''Tell the Poppers that America's Great Plains do not equal the Sahara,'' says Gov. Mike Hayden of Kansas. ''Why not seal off declining urban areas as well, and preserve them as museums of 20th-century architecture?''
Frank Popper, undeterred, is pacing his Rutgers office, imagining advertising copy for a 21st-century Plains. Rumpled and buoyant, he frequently tries out ideas on his collaborator, who sits across the room, sorting computer disks. ''Camera safaris across Oklahoma - Deborah, do you think that will work? Or maybe covered-wagon tours for the eco-chic?''
Deborah Popper is used to her husband's hyperbolic sense of humor. She rolls her eyes and shrugs. They never expected so much fuss over a single idea. ''Isn't the essence of a scholar's life to deal responsibly with information?'' she says. ''When our data added up to a region in crisis, we couldn't just sit by.''
As she leaves for the computer lab, her husband sorts through the day's mail: praise for a journal article from a former Cabinet member; speaking invitations from Gdansk and Toronto. By the door is a four-foot-high stack of mail on the Plains proposal: letters from tiny Western towns like Hamilton, Mont.; Walhalla, N.D., and Conlen, Tex. Some are temperate, others enraged. He will answer them all. For the Poppers, the Buffalo Commons has been a two-way process of education. Mixed use of such a preserve, they have argued from the start, would be crucial to its success; tourism, recreation and retirement communities would all need to flourish in or near a Buffalo Commons. But the startling response to their idea - hundreds of calls and letters from business and government, as well as private citizens - has forced the Poppers to develop their original ideas with unexpected precision.
Their early impulse to emphasize the poetry of place must now accommodate dozens of practical queries, from setting a possible Government price tag (''Billions, but still less expensive than current farm subsidies,'' says Frank Popper) to honing definitions of mixed-use land. On a Buffalo Commons, would they allow missile sites? (Yes.) Oil derricks? (Yes.) Predators for buffalo, such as mountain lion and prairie wolf? (Yes.) Indians? (Definitely.) The Plains begin where annual rainfall drops below the minimum standard for dependable farming, which is 20 inches. At the 98th meridian, the Midwest's rich, green corn- and dairy land begins yielding to arid range and wheat field. Windswept and austerely beautiful, suffering extremes of heat and cold, the Plains run hundreds of miles west to the Rockies, north into Canada, and south to Texas.
For Indians and early cattlemen, this region was originally a commons. Animals and people constantly migrated, allowing the dry, fragile ecological system to renew itself. When 19th-century pioneers broke the sod to settle and farm, a grim cycle was set in motion, with results still felt today.
''We tried to force waterless, treeless steppes to behave like Ohio, and got three or four boom-and-bust episodes for our trouble,'' Frank Popper explains. ''Now the classic Plains cycle of drought, financial woe and depopulation is rolling again, and this time it may go all the way. Thirty years of water-table depletion, S.&.L's collapsing right and left, whole rural counties voting with their feet - and still no one's thinking ahead.''
In December 1987, an article by the Poppers on the land-use future of the Plains appeared in Planning, a professional journal. Settling the prairies, they argued, was the largest, longest-running agricultural and environmental mistake in United States history. Fusing economics, landscape analysis and statistical modeling, the Poppers mapped a gloomy future for the region in unprecedented, county-by-county detail.
The article attracted the attention of local, then regional newspapers and radio stations. Cries of outrage erupted across the Plains, which did not go unnoticed by staffers in the office of the Governor of North Dakota. Disparaging references to the Poppers began appearing in Gov. George Sinner's speeches in late 1988.
''We're not saying, 'Out by Tuesday,' '' Frank Popper insists. ''This is not forced evacuation. The parts of the Plains that would form the initial core of the Buffalo Commons - 109 counties and about 413,000 residents, out of 6.5 million people on the Plains - are depopulating briskly, with no help from us.'' (Although the Plains cover a fifth of the land mass of the lower 48 states, they carry less than 3 percent of the country's total population - and that number is dropping.) ''We don't foresee a Mad Max, total-desolation scenario, but rather a gradual pullback by the private sector, and then nature taking its course across an area one and a half times the size of California.''
But after two summers of severe drought and what promises to be another hot and dry summer, the Poppers have gained the heartland's reluctant attention.
Across the Plains, isolated homesteads and sturdy small towns are drying up from lack of water, people and investment dollars. Some Plains state capitals, like Pierre, S.D., have almost no commercial air service. Other locales are losing bus stop, doctor, minister, school. Many rural Plains dwellers must now drive 50 miles for a quart of milk, 75 for a movie, 100 for a shopping mall. Economic growth exists on the Plains, but mostly in the larger towns and cities. Should current depopulation trends continue, almost two-thirds of today's Plains farms and small communities may vanish by 2020.
The Poppers are suggesting an alternative to this slow abandonment: deprivatize the Plains. Many administrative channels for creating a Buffalo Commons, they point out, are already in place. A collection of Federal and state agencies and private interests already control much of the territory that might constitute the core of a Commons.
They include the thousands of properties foreclosed by the Farmers Home Administration, the Farm Credit System and private banks; farms under the Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Program (which pays farmers not to cultivate marginal land); holdings of the Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management; acreage held in trust by environmental groups like the Nature Conservancy; state parks and preserves, and national grasslands managed by the United States Forest Service.
Within the agencies potentially affected by the Popper proposal, reaction has been a muted wait-and-see. ''To the average Government administrator, the Buffalo Commons looks like Frank Lloyd Wright's idea for a mile-high tower,'' says Robert Nelson, an economist and strategic planner in the office of the Secretary of the Interior. ''Proposing it is one thing; doing the engineering plans, quite another.''
If the Popper plan becomes a reality, these government agencies and private groups would need to work together to consolidate the distressed areas before they can be restored to a presettlement condition, as the Poppers propose. And if a Buffalo Commons ever becomes reality, biologists, botanists and agronomists will have to design and manage it.
The Poppers have done much to spark the national land-use debate, and the next stage must take place in Washington hearing rooms and New York offices. For administrative and electoral reasons, the short-term prospects of making the Commons a reality are not encouraging: the list of international, Federal, state and private interests involved in possible Commons management is long, and denouncements of the Popper plan are a recognized way for elected officials from Plains states to prove prairie patriotism.
Nonetheless, many longtime observers of American land-use trends, looking beyond the immediate election concerns, believe that some form of Buffalo Commons may well come into being in the not-too-distant future. In another generation, they say, huge tracts of Plains land will be retired, restored and reclaimed.
''Two factors, in combination, will make the Buffalo Commons a reality,'' says Harold C. Jordahl Jr., a University of Wisconsin emeritus professor of urban and regional planning, and a state and Federal environmental policy adviser since the Kennedy Administration. ''A continuing series of droughts - some climatic disaster on the scale of the 1930's - combined with any evidence of enlightened commercial leadership among Plains business and agribusiness people. . . . Since World War II, the politicians have essentially abandoned rural America, and the result, in this case, is a region in genuine peril.''
THE POPPERS' PROPOSAL is the most ambitious example to date of the worldwide revival of the commons concept. Cooperatively managed natural reserves are increasingly viewed as a workable answer to problems as difficult, and as different, as harvesting Costa Rican rain forests and saving Bangladeshi fishing grounds.
In the United States, the concept of commons is a rediscovery, not an innovation. The Boston Common celebrates its 356th anniversary this year. But as recently as the mid-1980's, American land-use specialists regarded the commons idea as an essentially archaic tradition.
In the summer of 1990, however, precisely a century after the official closing of the American frontier, the commons principle ranks among the hottest topics in land-use thought. In a field caught between practicalities and utopias, the principle's ingenious balancing of development claims and the concerns of those who believe in ''bioheritage'' (the idea that natural resources belong to the human race), its calm acceptance of social responsibility and stewardship, all look suddenly new and desirable.
Revitalizing the American commons is taking many forms, on the Plains and elsewhere. The Institute of the Rockies, a citizens group in western Montana, is proposing the Big Open, an East African-style buffalo and game reserve. Nevada's Great Basin contains a new national park; the Snake River Plain of Idaho and Nebraska's Sand Hills and Buffalo Prairie may soon follow. Unesco's international biosphere reserves, devoted to the preservation of crucial ecologies, already include parts of the Appalachians, the Everglades and the Great Plains grasslands.
The commons idea is increasingly popular on the research and philanthropy circuit. An Aspen Institute symposium last July examined the implications of a global commons. Last month, the W. K. Kellogg Foundation helped fund a conference sponsored by the Oregon-based National Rural Studies Committee on the problems of the Plains. An international network of specialists in natural resource management, working on commons questions, is financed by the Ford Foundation. In the complex landscape of policy debate, the Poppers, once pioneers, now have much unexpected company.
Within university walls, the Poppers' proposal receives praise. ''They're onto something very important, and I admire their courage in taking ideas public, which few academics do,'' says Bret Wallach, a former MacArthur Fellow and a geographer at the University of Oklahoma. ''Since the 1920's, a lot of people in government and agriculture have argued we should retire the least productive, most ecologically fragile prairie land. Through their guts and insouciance, the Poppers may well be the ones to make this work.''
FRANK AND DEBORAH Popper make an effective research team. Her computer skills verify his hunches; he drafts, she edits; he is the spokesman and animator, she the pattern-finder and corrective. Their roots are urban. He grew up in Chicago; she, in Manhattan. He was educated at Haverford and Harvard; she at Bryn Mawr and Rutgers (his degrees are in psychology and government; hers are in history, library science and geography), and their working lives have been spent in consulting firms, institutes, libraries and universities. On the Great Plains, they realize, such credentials are not endearing.
The Poppers live in a 1900's frame house, a mile from the Rutgers campus. On this morning, juice cartons and cheese Danish perch atop a copy of ''Zoning and the American Dream.'' The Popper children - Joanna, 17 years old, and Nicholas, 12 - rummage for gym bags and physics papers. Their parents, at table-tennis speed, first debate North Dakota bond issues, then LULU's (locally unwanted land uses, another Popper interest), then Willa Cather's western novels.
''Twenty-two years of marriage,'' says Deborah Popper, who is 42, ''and we've never stopped talking.''
''Mostly, she wins, especially on Commons problems,'' her husband, who is 46, chimes in. ''I get too idealistic about the great open spaces. Deborah is a demon for fact.''
Field-testing the Buffalo Commons concept has required every ounce of fact and idealism the two can summon. Most academic planners and geographers work from data tapes or computer simulations, and talk only to professional peers. What would happen, the Poppers wondered, if they took their ideas out West and explained them to the people most affected?
Dozens of lectures and symposia later, one result is clear. When the Poppers give public talks anywhere on the Plains, security guards frequently watch the audience.
''We upset people,'' Frank Popper admits. ''It's a bit like being Salman Rushdie.'' He thinks a moment. ''We have no detailed master plan for the Plains, no mandate or official backing, only the growing sense that history, for a multitude of reasons, is on our side.'' (Popper's years as a Federal consultant have made him extremely wary of six-point plans with rigidly organized subheadings.) ''Maybe, maybe we can inspire enough discussion to affect the American future, instead of watching passively while a wondrous region self-deludes and self-destructs.''
THE INHABITANTS OF the rural Plains have long felt that those on the coasts perceive their land as flyover country, and are resentful. In difficult, unforgiving country, any change comes hard.
''Naturally the Poppers' idea looks threatening out there,'' comments Theodore W. Sudia, senior scientist at the National Park Service and a 20-year veteran of preservation and restoration battles. ''For many Plains people, deep down inside, it's still 1870. Self-reliance and caution are profoundly important to them; outside interference, profoundly suspect. How else can they survive? In a landscape that harsh, you risk everything just getting out of bed in the morning.''
For 10 strenuous days in late April, the Poppers travel some 1,400 miles through the heart of the High Plains, meeting farmers, ranchers, developers, planners and biologists, watching reactions to their proposal.
The first speaking stop is McCook, Neb. (population: 8,000). McCook epitomizes the self-contained center favored by Deborah Popper's computers for long-term survival. The town has Amtrak service and a United Airlines feeder, a golf course, a CAT scanner, a junior college. Restored five-bedroom Victorian homes average $45,000, and supermarket lines are full of cowboys buying Dove Bars and Evian.
''This is all very exotic,'' says Frank Popper, inhaling pure, dry prairie air. A half-day out of Newark Airport brings a degree of culture shock: McCook's residents seem extremely polite, blond and husky. ''Nebraska organs are the most requested for transplants nationwide,'' a local nurse says proudly. ''Ours is healthy land.''
The Poppers' talk packs the high-school auditorium with nearly 400 people, an impressive turnout for a warm Saturday night in calving season. When Deborah Popper's computer-generated maps of doomed Plains counties move across the auditorium screen, there are audible gasps, then a rising hum of defiance and dread.
Local panelists rise to reply, each rebuttal raising angry cheers. Everywhere they speak, the Poppers encounter a pattern of outrage they call the Four Responses: Pioneer Gumption (''Don't underestimate our determination and hard work''); Dollar Potential (''Plains food production can feed the world''); Eastern Ignorance (self-explanatory), and Prairie Zen (''Our landscape is a powerful source of spiritual renewal'').
''Effective teaching,'' observes Charlie Gregory, 32, an instructor at McCook Community College, watching the crowd hand in comment sheets at the close of the presentation and walk out stony-faced, like people at a wake. ''This bunch responds to unemotional fact, not Donahue, and that's what they got. Before tonight, about 75 percent were dead set against the Poppers. Now, it's probably 35 percent.''
The next day, the Poppers drive northwest from McCook through Hayes County, Neb., an area high on their endangered list. Nearly two-thirds the size of Rhode Island, the county has a population of 1,200. Here is the true Plains, a minimalist landscape of sun, wind and grass. One can drive for an hour and encounter few houses, no billboards, no human beings. Frank Popper peers around with interest. What does he see?
''A severe landscape, made humanly more severe,'' he says, pointing to serpentine erosion gullies, 40 feet deep. ''A dispassionate place. A century ago, we'd count 70 varieties of grasses here, instead of the current two or three. And lots more game. This country is perfectly suited to buffalo, not a monoculture of wheat or corn, not using scarce water to grow crops already in surplus.''
If many rural Nebraskans, faced with such conditions, have departed for more prosperous farm areas or for cities, other residents cite urban problems - AIDS, pollution and crime - as sound reasons to stay.
''I got tired of traffic jams and crowds, and came to western Nebraska by covered U-Haul truck,'' explains Johnny R. Scott, 44, who used to live in Jacksonville, Fla., and Washington, and who is now owner of the grocery store in Hayes Center, the county seat.
Ocia Weston, 76, agrees: ''The Poppers know nothing about us. No way will Hayes County go back to buffalo.''
While Frank Popper examines a row of deserted buildings, as rapt as if touring Tibet, his wife snaps pictures of the town. He notices the unsmiling onlookers (one filming him with a video camera) and turns to his wife.
''What have we done to the people of the Plains?'' he says, in mingled wonder and despair.
''Alerted them,'' she replies. ''It's depressing, and necessary, and now no one is happy. Our next project may be safely overseas. Lithuanian housing reform sounds good.'' They drive west, stopping in Benkelman, Neb., to meet Robert J. Reichert's buffalo herd. Sixty million of these shaggy, one-ton beasts once roamed the Plains, but by 1900 over-hunting reduced the number to a mere thousand. Today, as the market for lean meat increases, Western stockbreeders have turned to buffalo-raising; some ranchers in Colorado and Wyoming now run more than 800 head. Reichert keeps a hobby herd of 24 impressive, big-chested, black-maned animals.
''Thoreau was right: 'Eastward I go only by force; but westward I go free!' '' Frank Popper shouts, standing joyously in the bed of the rancher's pickup. The truck jolts across a rutted pasture, Colorado on one horizon, Kansas on the other, while a dozen shaggy brown buffalo gallop alongside, snorting and stamping, as splendid as the bison on the cave walls at Lascaux.
''I could live here,'' Popper declares, his eyes riveted on the tossing horns. ''I could look at this land forever.''
North of Denver, after some hours of inspecting ghost towns like Keota, Colo. (population: 4), the Poppers drive through a brief and violent cloudburst.
''What amazing country this is,'' Popper says. He is hunched forward in the van seat as he watches storm clouds move across the front range of the Rockies, its snowfields brilliant against an indigo sky. ''My parents brought me out here on what I now realize were Americanization trips,'' he adds. ''We did a lot of those, the Grand Canyon, Navajo country, Yosemite.'' (His father, an Austrian physician, fled the Nazis in 1938, married another refugee, and settled in Chicago to raise two sons.) On the road, the Poppers live like political candidates: speech, reception, symposium, photo opportunity, debate, farm tour, speech. They have traveled more than 30,000 miles on Buffalo Commons research trips. Except for expense payments and honoraria, the couple bear the cost of these missions. ''We prefer,'' says Frank Popper, ''to remain unbought.''
A few hours later, the Poppers find themselves in the middle of white wine and scallion beef, Hermes scarves and polished cowboy boots. A reception is being held for them by the Center for the New West, an economic and public-policy think tank in Denver. The suburban living room is crowded with lawyers and bureaucrats. Largely supported by corporate funds, the center encourages high-tech development in states beyond the Mississippi, including those in the Plains, and its work helps to attract East Coast and Pacific Rim investors there. Its picture of a rapidly urbanizing region holds no room for a Buffalo Commons or for the powerfully romantic past the Poppers have invoked.
Also at the party is Joseph M. Luther, assistant dean of the University of Nebraska architecture school, who will debate Frank Popper in a special American Planning Association session the next day. Luther, too, dislikes mythic visions.
''Out here we believe in maintaining a positive attitude of thinking,'' he explains. ''If global warming comes, we'll plant palm trees and make Omaha the next Sun Belt. Frank represents Europe, the East, Harvard, Federal interference - everything the good people of the Plains want to get away from, like my ancestors did, as early as the 1790's. . . . No, we will fight the Poppers, all the way.''
The next morning's forum on the Plains offers rousing political theater. The Denver convention center hall is filled with about 200 city managers, zoning experts, preservationists and development commissioners, all eager to argue, as well as several camera crews. Frank Popper is on the podium. ''Discussion of the Buffalo Commons must spring from fact, not emotion and misperception,'' he declares. Joseph Luther implores the crowd: ''Let us not be buffaloed!'' SIX DAYS AFTER DENVER , an apprehensive Frank Popper stands in a suburban Chicago hotel ballroom, presenting the Buffalo Commons idea to more than 400 members of the Society for Ecological Restoration, the leading international research association that is concerned with restoring and preserving landscapes.
Ten minutes into his speech, widespread excitement and approval are clear. Many listeners even find the Popper proposal too conservative. The question-and-answer period generates excited talk of similar restoration efforts for the Southern Californian chaparral, Maine's forests, and the great Southern wetlands. At 11 P.M., long after the session's close, hundreds of ecologists continue to mill about the ballroom, trading ideas on Plains re-creation.
Frank Popper stands by the platform, tired but satisfied, his work as a catalyst done. ''The Buffalo Commons is a metaphor, really,'' he muses, watching the excited faces. ''It's a jumping-off point, a way into many complex land-use dilemmas. Scientists, farm-country people and wheeler-dealers are powerfully resistant to metaphor. Planners and geographers must deal in it constantly.''
Back at Rutgers, Popper is thinking about the price of change. The view from his office embraces asphalt and concrete, warehouses and power lines, a strip of dying lawn. The local land-use board classes this zone as ''semirural.'' What does he see there?
''On the Plains, I saw anguish, waste, a lack of sense and awful planning,'' Popper says. ''This, too, is a bleak and difficult landscape. We have seen the future, and it looks like Piscataway, N.J. Ultimately, the Buffalo Commons tries to convey that land use must be a deliberate national choice. The Plains are about to change, maybe for the worse. But they still retain a magnificent, terrifying sense of possibility.''
''You get very few second chances,'' says Deborah Popper quietly, from the doorway, ''when playing with continents.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank and Deborah Popper in Hayes Center, Neb.; A buffalo grazes on Robert Reichert's land in Benkelman, Neb.; In Hayes Center, Ocia Weston, 76, is among those wary of the Poppers' plan (pg. 24-25); Kenny McDonald's farm in Cheyenne County, Kan.; Residents of McCook, Neb., listen to the Poppers' lecture; The 10 Great Plains states, between the 98th meridian and the Rockies. Under the plan, depressed locales in those states (shown in black) totaling an area about one and a half times the size of California would become the world's largest national park. (Photographs by Jeffrey Aaronson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO COMMONS (89%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT PLAINS; UNITED STATES; BUFFALO COMMONS (PROPOSED)

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; BUFFALOES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAND USE POLICIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; POPULATION; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES NATIONAL PARKS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); HISTORY (76%); GEOGRAPHY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (74%); FERTILIZERS (72%); LAND RECLAMATION (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (65%); WILDLIFE (65%); POPULATION DECLINE (55%); 

PERSON: MATTHEWS, ANNE; POPPER, FRANK; POPPER, DEBORAH FRANK POPPER (59%); DEBORAH POPPER (58%); 



617 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 24, 1990

 BODY:

 

$	 	 	 	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1	 2	 2	 THE BURDEN OF PROOF, by Scott Turow.				 (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.95.) An attorney				 tries to unravel the mystery of his wife's death				 while defending his wheeler-dealer brother-in-law.	 	 	 	 	 2		 1	 MESSAGE FROM NAM, by Danielle Steel.				 (Delacorte, $21.95.) A woman journalist's coming				 of age in the years between the assassination of				 John F. Kennedy and the fall of Saigon.	 	 	 	 	 3	 2	 18	 OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss.				 (Random House, $12.95.) The problems of finding				 your way through life; in verse and pictures.	 	 	 	 	 4	 4	 7	 THE STAND, by Stephen King. (Doubleday,				 $24.95.) Doomsday brings horrors to America; the				 uncut version of a novel first published in 1978.	 	 	 	 	 5	 3	 10	 SEPTEMBER, by Rosamunde Pilcher. (Dunne/St.				 Martin's, $22.95.) Guests from many parts of the				 world encounter their often unexpected destinies				 during a get-together in a small Scottish town.	 	 	 	 	 6	 5	 7	 DRAGON, by Clive Cussler. (Simon & Schuster,				 $21.95.) In 1993, Dirk Pitt moves fast to save				 America from a Japanese extremist.	 	 	 	 	 7	 8	 15	 THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM, by Robert Ludlum.				 (Random House, $21.95.) Jason Bourne plans to				 infiltrate the ruthless Medusa Brigade.	 	 	 	 	 8	 6	 7	 AN INCONVENIENT WOMAN, by Dominick				 Dunne. (Crown, $19.95.) Manners, morals and				 murder in Los Angeles's high society.	 	 	 	 	 9	 7	 6	 THE GOLDEN ORANGE, by Joseph Wambaugh.				 (Perigord/Morrow, $19.95.) Murder and chicanery				 amid Orange County's yachts and mansions.	 	 	 	 	10	 12	 4	 THE OUTLAWS OF MESQUITE, by Louis				 L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Eight short stories				 about the American frontier.	 	 	 	 	11	 14	 43	 CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, by Tom				 Clancy. (Putnam, $21.95.) The C.I.A.'s Jack Ryan				 fights Colombian drug lords.	 	 	 	 	12	 9	 7	 FAMILY PICTURES, by Sue Miller. (Harper &				 Row, $19.95.) The good and bad times of a large				 Chicago clan during the past 40 years.	 	 	 	 	13 *		 1	 SULLIVAN'S STING, by Lawrence Sanders.				 (Putnam, $19.95.) The ordeals of a female cop				 assigned to track down a Florida con man.	 	 	 	 	14 *	 10	 10	 SKINNY LEGS AND ALL, by Tom Robbins.				 (Bantam, $19.95.) The horror and humor of the				 upcoming apocalypse are played out at a				 restaurant near the United Nations.	 	 	 	 	15	 11	 9	 THE GOLD COAST, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner,				 $19.95.) How life changes for an old WASP family				 when the head of a crime family becomes its				 neighbor on Long Island's North Shore.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	 1	 11	 MEN AT WORK, by George F. Will. (Macmillan,				 $19.95.) The political pundit and baseball buff				 describes the craft of the game as practiced by				 three players and a manager.	 	 	 	 	 2	 2	 4	 DAVE BARRY TURNS 40, by Dave Barry. (Crown,				 $16.95.) Reflections on the crises of middle age by				 the syndicated humorist.	 	 	 	 	 3	 3	 3	 DON'T SHOOT, IT'S ONLY ME, by Bob Hope with				 Melville Shavelson. (Putnam, $19.95.) The				 comedian reminisces about more than 50 years in				 show business.	 	 	 	 	 4	 5	 22	 MEGATRENDS 2000, by John Naisbitt and				 Patricia Aburdene. (Morrow, $21.95.)				 Prognostications about political, economic and				 social developments in the next decade.	 	 	 	 	 5	 14	 3	 FATHER, SON & CO., by Thomas J. Watson Jr. and				 Peter Petre. (Bantam, $22.95.) The autobiography				 of the man who succeeded his father as head of				 I.B.M.	 	 	 	 	 6	 7	 40	 IT WAS ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DOWN ON IT, by				 Robert Fulghum. (Villard, $17.95.) A new collection				 of inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	 7	 4	 22	 BARBARIANS AT THE GATE, by Bryan				 Burrough and John Helyar. (Harper & Row,				 $22.95.) The 1988 battle for control of RJR Nabisco.	 	 	 	 	 8	 6	 85	 ALL I REALLY NEED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN				 KINDERGARTEN, by Robert Fulghum. (Villard,				 $17.95.) Inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	 9		 1	 PERIL AND PROMISE, by John Chancellor.				 (Harper & Row, $17.95.) Observations about				 contemporary America by a television newscaster.	 	 	 	 	10	 13	 20	 HEAD FIRST, by Norman Cousins. (Dutton,				 $19.95.) How the brain affects the body's endocrine				 and immune systems.	 	 	 	 	11 *	 9	 33 LIAR'S POKER, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $19.95.) Wall Street's tumultuous 1980's, as witnessed by a young bond trader.	 	 	 	 	 	12 *	 10	 8	 LEGACIES, by Bette Bao Lord. (Knopf, $19.95.)				 Reflections on the Chinese experience during the				 past quarter-century by a writer who was born in				 China, raised in America.	 	 	 	 	13		 13	 MEANS OF ASCENT, by Robert A. Caro. (Knopf,				 $24.95.) Lyndon Johnson's seven-year pursuit of a				 seat in the Senate, won in 1948 by 87 votes.	 	 	 	 	14 *	 8	 9	 IN THE ARENA, by Richard Nixon. (Simon &				 Schuster, $21.95.) The 37th President reflects on his				 public career and private life.	 	 	 	 	15 *	 12	 2	 THE SEARCH FOR MODERN CHINA, by				 Jonathan D. Spence. (Norton, $29.95.) Four				 centuries of Chinese history.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	 1	 181	 WEBSTER'S NINTH NEW COLLEGIATE				 DICTIONARY. (Merriam-Webster, $16.95.) A				 standard reference work, revised and updated.	 	 	 	 	 2 *	 3	 71	 WEALTH WITHOUT RISK, by Charles J. Givens.				 (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) A Florida				 entrepreneur's advice about how to make a				 personal fortune.	 	 	 	 	 3	 2	 28	 THE GREAT WALDO SEARCH, by Martin				 Handford. (Little, Brown, $10.95.) A book of				 illustrations in which the game is to find a				 ubiquitous chap named Waldo.	 	 	 	 	 4	 4	 25	 WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD DICTIONARY.				 (Simon & Schuster, $17.95.) The Third College				 Edition of a standard work, revised in 1988.	 	 	 	 	 5	 5	 18	 BEWARE THE NAKED MAN WHO OFFERS				 YOU HIS SHIRT, by Harvey Mackay. (Morrow,				 $19.95.) Advice on how to get ahead in business. 	
 
 These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 28,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
 *An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
AND BEAR IN MIND
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
MEMOIRS, by Andrei Sakharov. (Knopf, $29.95.) Not so much a reflection on his life as an annotated record of it, this account tells how an essentially shy and securely privileged Soviet scholar became an unbreakable witness for intellectual freedom.
 
DISTURBING THE PEACE: A Conversation With Karel Hvizdala, by Vaclav Havel. (Knopf, $19.95.) Autobiography, political philosophy, history and esthetics, all displaying the qualities that projected the author into the presidency of Czechoslovakia.
 
WILDLIFE, by Richard Ford. (Atlantic Monthly, $18.95.) Mr. Ford's fourth novel, which concerns a 16-year-old boy, his parents and his mother's casual lover, holds at its heart a nostalgia for the true perfection of the way things used to be, before ruin set in.
 
GORBACHEV: Heretic in the Kremlin, by Dusko Doder and Louise Branson. (Viking, $24.95.) A narrative interpretation that does not pretend to yield a final reading of the Soviet leader but provides a guide to the roller-coaster volatility of the last five years.
 
WHAT WE HAD, by James Chace. (Summit, $17.95.) This memoir of childhood and youth by a former editor of Foreign Affairs and The Times Book Review focuses lyrically on a town (Fall River, Mass.) and a family both in decline in the 1930's and 40's.
 
HEMINGWAY'S SUITCASE, by MacDonald Harris. (Simon & Schuster, $18.95.) Big chunks of previously unknown writing by Hemingway may have shown up in the hands of a vanity-press novelist in this exhilarating fiction about writing fiction.
 
THE LIFE AND DEATH OF A DRUID PRINCE: The Story of Lindow Man, an Archaeological Sensation, by Anne Ross and Don Robins. (Summit, $19.95.) A fascinating argument, even if fetched a bit far, about a 2,000-year-old corpse found in England in 1984.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIETNAM (56%); SCOTLAND (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (56%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ASSASSINATION (75%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (69%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 



618 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: WORLD ECONOMY: THE PROPHET OF BOOM

BYLINE: By ADAM SMITH; Adam Smith, a pseudonym for George J. W. Goodman, is the host of ''Adam Smith's Money World'' on PBS.

 BODY:

THE COMING GLOBAL BOOM
How to Benefit Now
From Tomorrow's Dynamic World Economy.
By Charles R. Morris.
267 pp. New York: Bantam Books. $19.95.
Why is the economic news always bad? One of my favorite headlines (from The Washington Post) says, ''U.S. Economy Adds 400,000 Jobs: Report Spurs Fears.'' Fears? Sure: if the economy is heating up enough to add all those jobs, then at some point the Federal Reserve Board will have to cool it off by raising interest rates, and then jobs will be lost and bad days will come. Economic news is bad because most news is bad. We concentrate on the one house that burns down rather than the one thousand that have just been built. Further, you sound wiser predicting calamity. If calamity doesn't turn up, it can always be just over the horizon, and you can't be accused of the optimism or guilelessness of a cheerleader. 
Charles R. Morris is not afraid of optimism. He is a former banker and present entrepreneur who has the gift of a clear eye and the ability to make sense of the jargon and statistics that cloud our daily life. A decade ago he published ''The Cost of Good Intentions,'' a brilliant account of what the liberal leaders of New York City thought they were doing and the financial reality of what really happened. That book established Mr. Morris as a maverick voice, a contrarian writer without the support (or the limitations) of any particular constituency, a kind of public affairs paladin who could chew abstractions and statistics.
In ''The Coming Global Boom'' he has once again set himself up as contrarian critic, and has published a bullish argument in lively form. Mavericks like to be alone, but this time he may have more company than he likes. Mr. Morris argues that the world and the United States are on the threshold of a long-run economic boom. ''The mainstream consensus,'' he writes, ''has been predicting a major economic collapse for at least five years.'' That's because the mainstream is dominated by mathematical modelers who are as wrong as were the ''body counters'' in Vietnam. The contemporary body counters are looking at the wrong items, trying to fit Promethean trends into their Procrustean computers, and missing what's going on outside their windows.
What's happening outside the windows is that the globalization of business is producing worldwide efficiencies, and businesses are engineering a new drive to quality. Detroit, for example, has to live up to the Japanese. Consumer demands escalate, and so do the advanced technologies to meet the demands.
What about the bad news - the budget deficit, say? ''It is difficult to point definitely to any ill effects from recent deficits,'' writes Mr. Morris. ''And, in any case, American government deficits - state, local, and federal - are declining rapidly as a percent of GNP, as are government deficits in the rest of the industrialized world.'' This, as I said, is the bullish case, sometimes advanced by Administration drumbeaters in Washington. ''What about the future? There can be almost no doubt that, sometime around 1995 or so, the current federal budget deficits will disappear.'' That statement counts the Social Security surplus, though, and there is considerable movement in Washington to take the Social Security surplus out of the budget, the better to reveal the ''real'' budget deficit.
What about that other deficit, the trade deficit? We buy all those Toyotas from Japan, and then try to sell them rice, and come up short, no? No. Sure, says Mr. Morris, American car buyers switched to Japanese models, because they offered quality and Detroit didn't. But we have a trade surplus with many countries, and our exports are doing fine. Moreover, the computer modelers, in calculating trade balances, have it wrong when they compare what foreigners own here and what we own abroad. Both are counted at cost, and our investments abroad are older. Value them both at the current market, and we're still in good shape. And the Japanese are under pressure to loosen up - take the weekends off and buy more from us.
How about American productivity? Our work force, Mr. Morris points out, is still more productive than the Japanese - though they are improving faster at the moment. They have had some dramatic triumphs in semiconductors and other process manufacturing; we still lead in software. But all the industrialized countries are getting more productive as they invest more in capital equipment and try to compete worldwide. American managers - there are some instructive stories here - are sober and determined, having had their lunch eaten by the Japanese in the 1980's. Xerox, for example, invented photocopying as we know it, then lost much of the market to the Japanese, and now has won much of it back.
Demography gives us a big boost into the new industrial golden age. The baby boomers had dragged down our productivity. There are so many of them, and they entered the work force at the same time, and inexperience always damages productivity. Now they've been at work awhile and their oars are in the water. The baby boomers had also been a consuming generation, and they indulged themselves with a long adolescence. Now they are married, with children of their own, and like all middle-aged married folk they will save more, and the low savings rate of the United States will start to go up. Good news, Mr. Morris declares. Lower inflation, lower interest rates, the basis of a boom.
Further good news: the real estate bust. (That's right, bad news is good news.) House prices have risen faster than inflation for two decades, until everyone thought that houses were not just a place to live but a sure-fire investment. But the post-boomer generation is smaller in number, and with fewer first-time home buyers, the boomers don't find ready purchasers for their houses when they're ready to move on. House prices may not actually fall, but the bonanza days are over. That's good, says Mr. Morris. The boomers have to stay in their houses and pay down the mortgages, and as they do so they will shift funds from real estate into bank accounts, stocks and bonds, ''vast resources for productive industrial investment.'' In fact, between the shrinking deficits and the boomers' savings, so much Government debt will be paid down that there will be a shortage of Government bonds! ''The recent alarm over budget deficits is one of the best illustrations I can think of for the general rule that the conventional wisdom is usually not only wrong but, more often than not, is totally wrong,'' writes Mr. Morris, in outlining the coming shortage of Government debt.
Well, we added a trillion dollars in Government debt in the last 10 years, so a shortage in Government bonds is pretty far down on my worry list. Congress has got the hang of printing bonds, and if the boomers really save so much that they buy up the Government debt, I bet Congress will print some more and think of something to do with the money. For starters, it has been growling about education for a decade, and our high school seniors test 15th out of 15 among advanced industrial nations in overall academic achievement, not a good omen for the knowledge-intensive 1990's.
Mr. Morris is a perceptive writer, and his books are a pleasure to read. And we have had a slew of doom books about deficits and debts - some of them with apocalyptic metaphors, like hurricanes coming. So far, no financial hurricanes. But the debt levels are real, especially if the boomers don't save so much that they pay down the Government debt. Maybe the metaphors should have been less apocalyptic - predictions, say, of a low-grade virus coming, or a toothache, instead of a hurricane. There is certainly no lack of academic economists outlining the doom to come, and I cheerfully prescribe this readable book as an antidote.
But Mr. Morris's thesis has been overtaken by events. The collapse of Communism with all its implications, including the return of Eastern Europe to the European community and the study of market economies by the Soviet Union - these dramatic developments are barely mentioned. It sounds like this book has been sitting at the publisher for a year, and what's been going on makes the bond-house arguments of lower interest rates seem very tame. Mr. Morris begins his book with the sentence ''Pessimism is the new cottage industry in America.'' Pessimism? The Dow Jones average recently hit a new high. So have most of the other markets of the world. ''Europhoria'' has swept the Continent. The President's ratings are at an incredible peak, and the consumer polls don't show much discontent. Optimism no longer seems radical. In fact, a true Morris-type maverick might look in the other direction. Maybe to that aphoristic pitcher of yesteryear, Satchel Paige, who once advised: ''Don't look back. Something may be gaining on you.''
 
PERVERSE WORRY IS GOOD FOR US
 Talk about optimism! Charles R. Morris thinks the New York Mets can still win the National League pennant race ''if they can get Dwight Gooden back on track and find a decent catcher. A decent catcher is at least as important to the Mets as the savings rate is to the United States economy,'' he said in a telephone interview from his Manhattan office at Devonshire Partners, the investment analysts. (Let the record show that the day after the interview, the Mets' newest catcher, Orlando Mercado, hit a home run. But the team remained in fourth place.) In part, everyone else's pessimism feeds Mr. Morris's optimism about the world economy: ''This perverse worry has kept the economy on track by preventing the buildup of inventories that has destabilized economies in the past.''
Given the chance to update ''The Coming Global Boom'' (written as the first pieces were being chipped away from the Berlin Wall and the savings-and-loan bailout looked like it would cost only $50 billion), Mr. Morris agreed that the backwardness of Eastern Europe could be a drag on the world economy. ''But there should also be the release of an enormous entrepreneurial energy, which will be pure gain.''
And Mr. Morris seems little concerned that the Government may find the bill for savings-and-loan losses rising to $500 billion, 10 times higher than estimated a few months ago. ''Those losses have already happened,'' he said, ''in Texas and Oklahoma, in the empty office buildings, with construction workers out of work. The amount of available capital is unchanged,'' since the money is going back to small depositors whose savings were wiped out. By contrast, ''if the Government were to put $150 billion or $300 billion of new money into road construction, it would certainly have an inflationary impact as cement supplies dried up and Caterpillar raised prices for its Big Yellows.''
Indeed, if anything, Mr. Morris is more optimistic than he was a year ago. ''I was very much concerned that there was going to be an all-out trade war,'' he said, but with more ''reasonableness'' on all sides, ''the danger of a trade war has become much less.''
 
BARTH HEALEY

GRAPHIC: Drawng (pg. 1); graph: combined governemnt deficits as % of GNP, 1954-1988 (From ''The Coming Global Boom'') (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COMING GLOBAL BOOM, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ADAM; MORRIS, CHARLES R CHARLES R MORRIS (94%); 



619 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: HIGH-TECH GLADIATORS

BYLINE: By WASSILY LEONTIEF; Wassily Leontief is a professor of economics at New York University.

 BODY:

AMERICA'S STRUGGLE FOR LEADERSHIP IN TECHNOLOGY
By Jean-Claude Derian.
Translated by
Severen Schaeffer.
309 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The MIT Press. $29.95.
Two decades ago, Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, a noted French journalist, warned Europe of the American technological challenge. Now Jean-Claude Derian, another Frenchman, tells the story of America's efforts to maintain its technological leadership in the face of a powerful, and to some extent successful, Japanese assault. Mr. Derian was able to observe that struggle from the advantageous position of chief science counselor of the French Embassy in Washington from 1984 to 1987. 
The dramatis personae of ''America's Struggle for Leadership in Technology'' are the gigantic high-technology companies of America and Japan - such as I.B.M., A.T.&T., Sony and Toshiba - and the governmental organizations that stand behind them - the Pentagon on one side and Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M.I.T.I.) on the other.
In tracing step by step the moves and countermoves of the corporate players and governments involved, Mr. Derian introduces and elaborates the distinction between what he calls the ''sheltered'' and the ''exposed'' technological cultures. He points out that although most American high-technology industries originated in the exposed culture, in a free competitive environment, they matured and prospered in the sheltered culture of the postwar years. Nurtured by the Defense Department with its rapidly expanding budget, says Mr. Derian, they also benefited greatly from the quasi-monopolistic power of corporate giants such as I.B.M., A.T.&T. and Boeing.
Readers accustomed to hearing about the virtues of self-reliant private enterprise operating in a free competitive market will be reminded by this knowledgeable and well-informed observer of the American scene that ''an enormous gulf may sometimes stand between this principle [of governmental neutrality] and reality.'' Several successive chapters of Mr. Derian's book trace the history of the close relationship between the United States Government and industry, starting from the time when the first chairman of U.S. Steel, Judge Elbert H. Gary, reached what Robert Reich called an ''understanding with the federal government [that] inaugurated fifty years of stability for the steel industry.''
Turning to the present time, Mr. Derian observes that the United States Government still greatly influences the development of American industry. ''Seen from Europe or Japan,'' he writes, ''American technological policy seems to be made by the Pentagon, which in effect plays the role of an American version of MITI.'' He devotes many pages to describing the outstanding achievements of American high technology and the role that massive military spending has played in promoting it. The chapter depicting in great detail the origin and evolution of the Strategic Defense Initiative, however, he pointedly titles ''The Mirage.''
Mr. Derian presents Japan as the archetype of the exposed technological culture - exposed, that is, to the lure and vagaries of vast competitive international markets. Whereas high-technology companies in the American protected culture direct their energies toward inventing and manufacturing highly sophisticated military products incorporating the latest findings of the most advanced scientific research, Japanese industries focus on introducing new, more and more efficient methods of production. Whereas the often extraordinarily high costs of American high-technology companies are taken care of by the military budget, Japanese high-technology companies must, of necessity, cultivate economic efficiency and strictest cost control.
American companies may be spoiled by support from the Government, but Mr. Derian does not advocate an end to government involvement in industry. To quote him again: ''MITI's role in fostering Japan's exposed culture industries confirms that what sets the two cultures apart is not the presence or absence of government intervention, but rather the structure of the demand and the industrial organization adapted to it. It also shows that there are forms of government intervention that are compatible with the rules of the exposed culture.'' For instance,as the Japanese experience shows, industrial policy, now so much despised in the United States, can help private enterprise avoid making myopic decisions. Instead of giving subsidies and special tax concessions to politically well-connected industries, the Government could assist private businesses by assessing, as M.I.T.I. does, the long-run prospects of various technologies, goods and foreign markets.
For instance, in Japan, even though most basic and applied research is financed and conducted by private business, the Government invests substantial resources in systematically analyzing structural changes not only in Japan's economy but also in the economies of its trading partners, such as the United States and all the southern Asian countries. Japan's Economic Planning Agency, along with M.I.T.I. and all of the other ministries in Japan, maintains a massive computerized economic data base for this purpose alone. Indeed, one American involved in trade negotiations between the United States and Japan once confessed to me that members of the Japanese team seemed to possess a better understanding of the structure of the United States economy than members of his own team did.
After comparing Japanese and American technological cultures, Mr. Derian finally turns to the still somewhat limited role Europe plays in the contest for high-technology markets. He describes in detail the fates of some of Europe's sheltered industries. For example, he relates how Airbus, a joint European venture, successfully broke into the international civilian aircraft market, and he writes about how the German company Siemens and the Swedish company Ericson entered the deregulated United States telecommunication market. These companies, he points out, ''started behind the shelter of their own borders'' and then threw themselves into the exposed culture of international markets. Yet Mr. Derian does not believe that this approach invariably worked. The tribulations of European data-processing companies demonstrate, he writes, that ''the logic of the sheltered culture, which was so successful for certain European industries in the telecommunications sector, turned out to be disastrous when applied to the exposed culture'' of the international computer market.
Is it possible for American companies to cooperate with one another in order to meet the Japanese challenge? In his introductory remarks to the book, Lewis M. Branscomb, once the chief scientist of I.B.M. and now a professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, shares Mr. Derian's optimism about the well-advertised Sematech project as a model of cooperation among American high-technology companies. For the project, several leading American electronics corporations in the same sector were going to pool their resources and, with Government support, develop new manufacturing technologies. Since the time that Mr. Derian and Mr. Branscomb wrote so confidently about Sematech, though, the project collapsed because the United States companies withdrew their support from it. This country is still not ready to allow government to play a more direct role in advancing technological development.
Among the many books about America's waning competitiveness - particularly in the high-technology industries - this volume stands out as an eloquent and authoritative presentation of the many different aspects of this complex problem. It also suggests, by implication, where the solution for it might be sought.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICA'S STRUGGLE FOR LEADERSHIP IN TECHNOLOGY (BOOK)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (57%); 6502 (TSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (57%); BOEING CO (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); WRITERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BUDGETS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); 

PERSON: LEONTIEFF, WASSILY (PROF); DERIAN, JEAN-CLAUDE JEAN-JACQUES SERVAN-SCHREIBER (73%); 



620 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: A DISCORDANT INTIMACY

BYLINE: By ALAN BRINKLEY; Alan Brinkley is a professor of history at the City University of New York Graduate School.

 BODY:

BLOOD, CLASS, AND NOSTALGIA
Anglo-American Ironies.
By Christopher Hitchens.
398 pp. New York:
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $22.95.
Winston Churchill, visiting Washington in May 1943, sent President Franklin D. Roosevelt an extraordinary memorandum about the postwar world. It was a proposal for something like a merger of the United States and Britain. Citizens of each country would be able to ''settle and trade with freedom and equal rights in the territories of the other.'' There might be a common passport, even ''some common form of citizenship.'' Roosevelt, who was not always averse to bizarre schemes for global reorganization, showed no interest in this one. But to Christopher Hitchens, the proposal is redolent of what Walter Lippmann once called the ''discordant intimacy'' that has characterized the relationship between the United States and Britain for more than a century. 
Mr. Hitchens should be well equipped to discuss this special relationship. He is one of its byproducts. A native of England and a graduate of Balliol College, Oxford, he has lived for many years in the United States, writing for British and American publications about British and American public life. His generally left-wing political commentary in The Nation, Harper's Magazine and elsewhere is often exceptionally intelligent, witty and acidic. But Mr. Hitchens is not at his best in this ambitious book. He falls back too often on extended analyses of obvious literary and political figures (Rudyard Kipling, Henry James, Henry Adams, Winston Churchill, Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt) without creating a coherent framework for his discussion. He rambles and repeats himself. Much of this book is as diffuse and shapeless as the complicated subject it addresses.
Even so, ''Blood, Class, and Nostalgia'' offers some interesting, if controversial, assessments of what has become known since World War II as the special relationship. Principal among them is Mr. Hitchens's contention that Britain has consistently dominated the relationship - not only in the 19th and early 20th centuries, when the United States was a junior partner in the business of establishing British-American hegemony in much of the world, but more recently, when the United States has clearly been the stronger nation. Having lost its own empire, Britain has managed to remain an important world power largely through its ability to influence the United States.
Mr. Hitchens overstates his case at times. British diplomacy and propaganda - and the formidable influence of Churchill - undoubtedly helped shape American policy toward both world wars and may have hastened (and, in the case of World War I, perhaps even caused) American intervention. But Churchill did not play the central role in the shaping of America's cold war foreign policy, as this book suggests; nor was Britain as important a factor as Mr. Hitchens implies in encouraging American involvement in Vietnam. American globalism since 1945, he says, has been a kind of imperial receivership, in which the United States has assumed burdens of empire Britain could no longer carry. But the idea of a receivership both exaggerates the British role in the postwar world and slights America's autonomous motives for moving into a position of international leadership.
More persuasive is Mr. Hitchens's witty and occasionally savage dissection of the Anglophilia that pervades so much of American high culture, and of the British skill at exploiting it. The day may have passed when impoverished English nobles had their pick of wealthy American heiresses eager to marry for a title. But a covetous fascination with things British and the conspicuous (if often contrived) aura of wisdom and tradition they seem to convey - Churchill, the royal family, the English country house, Oxford and Cambridge - continues to pervade American upper-class life. Mr. Hitchens identifies a network of institutions through which British intellectuals and politicians exercise influence in the United States: the Rhodes scholarships, the Council on Foreign Relations (which has always championed the special relationship), the British-American conference center at Ditchley Park in Oxfordshire and, of course, the fabled British intelligence services. In every case, he suggests, the British derive much more from the relationship than the Americans.
Mr. Hitchens is less interested in chronicling the other, and perhaps more important, part of the British-American relationship: the tidal wave of American popular culture that has inundated Britain (and much of the rest of the world) in the last 50 years. His concern is primarily with the transmission of ideas and influence among elites. And despite his occasionally exaggerated claims, he is certainly correct that through much of this century Britain has retained a hold on American intellectual life quite out of proportion to its actual power. He is also correct in noting how much of that influence has been in the service of an imperial ethos. Britain has tried to bequeath to America its own sense of privilege and entitlement in world affairs. And the United States, if largely for reasons of its own, has at times been an apt pupil.
In the end, as the author writes, Britain and America ''were not destined to be the lords of humankind.'' Britain may imagine itself a new Greece to America's Rome, but as Mr. Hitchens argues, ''the time when [the world] could have been governed as an Anglo-American condominium is long past.'' America's fascination with Britain has always drawn from a mixture of myth and nostalgia. Britain's interest in the United States, which Mr. Hitchens suggests has always been largely pragmatic, may now begin to do the same.
 
THE CHURCHILL CULT
 How and why is it that the name and prestige of Sir Winston Churchill are so easily appropriated by Americans . . . who are generally identified with privilege and conservatism? . . . The figure of the grand old man is the summa of ''special relationship'' politics and economics. Invested with the awesome grandeur and integrity of the 1940 resistance to Hitler, and gifted as few before or since with the power to make historic phrases, Churchill is morally irrefragable in American discourse, and can be quoted even more safely than Lincoln. . . . Given the universality of his standing and appeal, Churchill is an icon of which jealous use is made by the political and military conservatives to whom the ''special relationship'' is a potent source of reinforcement. But he also occupies an unrivaled place in the common stock of reference, ranging from the mock-heroic to the downright kitsch. . . . In the public realm, there is an almost unappeasable demand for Churchillian invocation. The decline of direct Soviet-American confrontation has slightly lessened the intensity of the Munich analogy, which is the most salient form in which Churchillism lives on. But any issue of principle, or any confrontation with a lesser power than Russia, can also bring the ''lessons of Munich'' tripping off a speaker's tongue.
 
From ''Blood, Class, and Nostalgia.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLOOD, CLASS, AND NOSTALGIA (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (77%); ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (84%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); CITIZENSHIP (71%); LITERATURE (71%); WORLD WAR I (62%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, ALAN; HITCHENS, CHRISTOPHER CHRISTOPHER HITCHENS (96%); WINSTON CHURCHILL (77%); FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT (60%); 



621 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS;
Anglers Hail a Salmon Limit

BYLINE: By Nelson Bryant

 BODY:
THE decision to restrict the harvest of Atlantic salmon by commercial fishermen in Newfoundland has been greeted with delight by sport-fishing interests and condemned by the netters.
A short while ago, Bernard Valcourt, Minister of the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans, announced that commercial fishing would be limited to 667 metric tons this season. This is a reduction of more than 30 percent from the amount allowed in recent years. Last year, the quota was 1,400 metric tons, and the actual harvest was 940. 
David Clark, president of the Canadian-American Atlantic Salmon Federation, said Valcourt should be ''congratulated for his vision and courage in the face of stern opposition.'' Clark said Valcourt's plan set forth, for the first time, an enforceable quota system. The system involves issuing a set number of salmon tags to individual netters.
For years, the federation has been saying that too many salmon bound for other Canadian provinces and the rivers of New England have been intercepted by fixed gill-net fishing off the shores of Newfoundland.
In addition, said Clark and Tom Humphrey, president of Newfoundland's Salmonoid Council, excessive commercial harvesting has resulted in few salmon being able to reach their spawning beds in many of Newfoundland's rivers. The council is a regional affiliate of the federation.
Richard Cashin, president of the Fisherman's Food and Allied Worker Union of Newfoundland, deplores the new management plan.
Cashin said the plan did not accurately reflect all the recommendations of fisheries scientists. He said there were other ways to achieve the salmon's well-being. He said he believed the plan was the first step in an attempt to obliterate commercial fishing. He is concerned that the province's recreational anglers are embracing the concept with religious fervor.
With the exception of a small netting operation on the lower north shore of Quebec, commercial fishing for Atlantic salmon has been banned in all of Canada's provinces except Newfoundland, of which Labrador is a part.
Quebec, it should be noted, is the only Atlantic province that has control of its salmon fishery. In the other provinces, the national Government has the last word.
In all provinces, the angler catch of salmon has been restricted. In New Brunswick and Newfoundland, for example, the sport fisherman can keep only grilse, small salmon, averaging four to five pounds, that return to their natal streams after only one year at sea. The intent of this regulation is to protect the larger salmon, whose procreative potential is much higher.
The Canadian-American Federation and the Salmonoid Council are salmon-conservation organizations that represent sport fishermen. This is not to imply that commercial fishermen are not concerned with the salmon's welfare. The issue is sensitive and complex. Salmon netting is a way of life in Newfoundland. The problem is how to allocate the salmon resource fairly among the three user groups - sport fishermen, commercial fishermen, and native (Indian) bands - while protecting the fish adequately.
The value of sport fishing to the province is also a consideration. Humphrey said a study, commissioned by his group, found that a commercially caught salmon was worth $30 to the general economy of the province, while one caught by an angler was worth $563. Salmon angling is one of the most expensive participant sports in the world. A week of guided fishing on a first-rate salmon river can cost thousands of dollars.
He also said the commercial fishery had been taking about 400,000 salmon yearly, of which 120,000 were large fish, prime brood stock.
Last fall, the federation and the council asked the fisheries department to impose a five-year moratorium on commercial salmon fishing in Newfoundland. At the same time, the Salmon Preservation Association for the Water of Newfoundland said the fisheries department's management of the commercial harvesting of salmon had resulted in ''nothing less than a total rape of the resource at the expense of our salmon rivers and this province's economy.''
Last winter, the fisheries department convened a salmon workshop in Newfoundland, with Wayne Shinners, one of the department's deputy ministers, as chairman. The purpose of the workshop was to allow residents of Newfoundland to voice their views about the management of salmon in the province.
In February, Shinners told me he had every expectation that additional steps would be taken to protect the salmon this season. The new commercial quota system is the first of those steps.
The decision of the fisheries department to reduce the salmon catch was doubly difficult because Newfoundland's commercial fishermen and fish-processing plants have already been hard-hit by a reduction in cod quotas. Many cod fishermen also hold licenses to net salmon.
Clark, of the Canadian-American Federation, said there were about 26,000 resident salmon anglers in Newfoundland, and about 3,300 commercial salmon fishermen. Clark said the commercial groups accounted for an estimated 90 percent of the salmon harvest.
Humphrey, of the Salmonoid Council, said that in previous years, salmon netting in most of Newfoundland was done from early June through mid-October. He said it was anticipated that most of the fishery would close, because the quotas will have been reached before the end of July this year.
Humphrey said this would result in the escapement of many more salmon bound for the United States and other parts of Canada. As of midnight last Thursday, netting was closed in one of Newfoundland's salmon-fishing zones because the commercial quota of 25 metric tons had been reached.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OUTDOORS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (94%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: SALMON PRESERVATION ASSOCIATION (74%); ATLANTIC SALMON FEDERATION (57%); ATLANTIC SALMON FEDERATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWFOUNDLAND (CANADA)

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; FISHING, SPORT; SALMON COMMERCIAL FISHING (92%); SPORT FISHING (91%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (63%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, NELSON BERNARD VALCOURT (58%); DAVID CLARK (56%); 



622 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

Rent Overcharge Payment
 
Question: The State Division of Housing and Community Renewal ruled in my favor in a rent overcharge complaint case. The judgment supported my claim that I was overcharged by about $8,000 over 10 year. The building has been sold and I have heard that the new owner may not be liable for overcharges that occurred before he took over. Is this true? . . . W. S., Manhattan 
 
Answer: No. The new owner would inherit the obligation to pay any outstanding overcharge penalties from the previous owner. Those penalties usually ammount to money collected above the legal regulated rent plus accrued interest. But depending on the circumstances of the overcharge, the agency has the authority to award as much as three times that amount.
According to Thomas R. Viola, a spokesman for the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, there are two ways for tenants to collect overcharge penalties. The tenant can deduct 20 percent of the penalty from the monthly rent until the overcharge is recovered. If the penalty exceeds $1,000 or if the tenant has moved from the apartment he can collect a cash refund. In this case the division's judgment creates a lien against the building.
For more information pick up D.H.C.R. fact sheet No. 16 at any borough rent office.
 
Noisy Boiler
 
Question: I live in a condominium building and for the last few years noise and vibrations from the building's boiler have disturbed me. The managing agent has been good about trying to fix the pipes, but they continue to knock. Unfortunately, I think this boiler will always be a problem and the only solution is to soundproof my apartment. What are my chances of getting the condominium to pay for all or part of the soundproofing? . . . A. L., Manhattan Answer: It would probably depend on whether the condition existed before you bought the apartment.
''Although any resident has the right to quiet enjoyment of his homes'' said Stuart Saft, a lawyer who specializes in real estate matters and is a vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives, ''this owner would probably have a hard time getting the condominium board to spend thousands of dollars to cure a problem that existed when he purchased. The assumption is that when a buyer takes a home or apartment he takes it as is.''
If, however, the noise and vibration problem developed after you moved in, you would have a stronger case in claiming that the board was responsible for a remedy.
 
City Tax Rise
 
Question: I am thinking of buying a condominium or cooperative apartment in New York City. My lawyer has mentioned that a new New York City surtax will increase my costs. What information do you have on this new tax? . . . A. S., Manhattan
 
Answer: Your attorney probably was referring to a proposed increase on the mortgage recording tax. The city is seeking state legislative approval for an increase in this tax, which is levied on residential and commercial mortgages, as well as for extending the tax to mortgages on cooperatives, which are now exempt.
The increase being sought is one-half of a percentage point. If approved, the rate for all residential mortgages up to $500,000 would go from 1.5 to 2 percent. For mortgages over $500,000 taken on for the purchase of one- , two- or three-family residences, the rate would go from the current 1.625 to 2.125 percent. For all other mortgages over $500,000, including co-ops, condos and commercial properties, the rate would increase from the current 2.25 to 2.75 percent. The legislature is expected to approve the increase.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATE DIV (65%); HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (65%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RENT CONTROL (79%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); TAX INCREASES (68%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G



623 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: The Shift at Clasons Point;
Adding a Simplex to Broaden the Market

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
Two years into construction, the largest low-rise residential development ever undertaken in the Bronx is tacking with the winds of the sales market this summer.
The winds have been blowing more mildly. Accordingly, Shorehaven, the 1,183-unit town-house development on Clasons Point along the East River, is trying to broaden its market by offering an additional, lower-priced model.
It is a condominium two-thirds the size of the basic Shorehaven house. It is a simplex, or flat, with all the space on one floor, instead of a duplex, and there are three units per building instead of two. Heretofore, all Shorehaven housing has been in the duplex form, with one two-level unit above another in a four-story building. 
Shorehaven is not abandoning the duplex units. But the new model enables it to offer two-bedroom units for $135,000, instead of $150,000 as in the two-bedroom duplex units of Phase One. And the three-bedroom simplexes can be sold for $145,000 instead of the current $169,000 for the more spacious three-bedroom duplexes.
A result of this shift is that more buyers can qualify for mortgages. Fifty reservations for the new model have been taken in the first three weeks of offering, said Jerry Knoll, the sales director for the developer, an investment group led by World-Wide Holdings as managing general partner.
Buyers typically will need only $45,000 in income to qualify for a standard fixed-rate 30-year mortgage covering 80 percent of the sale price. Duplex buyers needed at least $60,000. But most of the people who came to look had family earnings of $40,000 to $50,000. ''We've broadened the market,'' said Mr. Knoll. Broadened it particularly to one-income families, it seems. The duplex buyers are usually two-income households, but there is a wide range of potential buyers with one income of about $40,000 who were unable to afford duplexes.
The lesson in this is that large-scale housing developments have to be able to adjust to changing market conditions. Around the country, home builders generally have done the same: In 1989, 14 percent of all new condominiums that went into construction sold for under $60,000, the National Association of Home Builders says. Two years earlier the figure was only 10 percent.
To sustain long-term projects in New York City, approvals obtained in the land-use review process need to provide a reasonable level of flexibility as the developer confronts changing market conditions.
When the 1,150-unit Woodbrooke project of the Muss Development Corporation began in the Rossville section of Staten Island in 1981, the housing type was to be town houses selling for $90,000 to $100,000.
But mortgage-interest rates rose suddenly and town houses proved unaffordable to a large section of the potential market.
Muss therefore introduced $60,000 flats. ''They not only sold well but they propelled people to look at the town houses,'' said Joshua Muss, president of Muss Development. They also made it unnecessary for Muss to slice prices for town houses, which would have distressed those who had already bought and occupied town houses at higher prices. Woodbrooke has taken nine years to complete. It has two-family houses as well as town houses and flats.
Similarly, the low-rise component of the ambitious 300-acre Arverne development on the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens is to have a mix of three- and four-story buildings looking onto a large open courtyard, and rowhousing similar to what is found in many Queens neighborhoods. The project was approved by the city's Planning Commission last week.
The plan is to sell housing in the initial phase at prices of $130,000 to $180,000 a unit, affordable to buyers with incomes of $50,000 to $80,000, a spokesman for the developer said. The developer is Oceanview Associates, a joint venture of Forest City Ratner Companies, the managing partner, and Park Tower Estates, a subsidiary of Park Tower Realty. The Liebman Melting Partnership, with Carl Meinhardt Architects, both of New York City, are the architects.
At Shorehaven, where the Liebman Melting Partnership is the architect, the current quest is for a lower-priced offering. ''You need variety,'' said James D. Stanton, the project manager for World-Wide Holdings. ''We should have had a broader range of product before.''
Shorehaven is a 47-acre gatehouse community in the midst of getting a distinctive, coherent look from its clusters of rose-colored masonry buildings with light-toned aluminum siding. The houses have been manufactured by DeLuxe Homes of Pa., based in Berwick, Pa. The parking is clustered, with one on-site space per housing unit.
Most of the buyers own two cars, however. The relatively remote location of Shorehaven - on its own peninsula at the foot of Soundview Avenue, 15 minutes by bus from the nearest subway station at Morrison Avenue on the No. 6 line to Pelham Bay Park - leaves considerable available street parking on Soundview Avenue and White Plains Road, the major nearby streets.
In its first phase there are 258 units, in 129 houses within 14 clusters of three or more houses - one with as many as 15. The lower house gets a small private backyard. Eighteen of the 47 acres are reserved for parks, and a community center, day-care center, swimming pool, picnic area and walking and jogging trail along the water will be built as the development proceeds.
Sales began in the summer of 1988 and occupancy a year later, delayed by a redesign required by the Fire Department after an earlier design had already been approved. The Fire Department wanted sprinklers in the halls and stairways and a hatch opening to allow occupants of the higher duplex to escape if necessary to the roof.
So far there have been 183 sales, with 83 buyers already in occupancy and the rest in contract, the sales agent said. Thirty percent of the buyers are teachers, nurses or police officers, and most come from rental housing in the east Bronx and are buying a home for the first time.
Even as Phase One sales continue, the developer is showing furnished mock-ups of the smaller flats to come in Phase Two. There will be 118 of these simplex apartments in 39 buildings, as well as 44 more duplexes in 22 buildings.
On the second and third floors the simplex apartments will have 1,045 gross square feet of space, with three bedrooms, two baths and bay windows, and sleeves for air-conditioners supplied by the buyer rather than central air-conditioning as in the duplexes. The 1,000-square-foot lower-floor unit has two bedrooms and a bath.
Weakness in new-home sales has been a regional phenomenon in the last year. The National Association of Realtors reports that sales in the Northeast declined 12 percent last year from the year before, compared with 4 percent nationwide. The figures include both resales and new construction.
Shorehaven - like Arverne in the future and Rossville, S.I., in the past - must pioneer in creating an entirely new residential environment. Its experience has been that the appeal is mainly to people who already live in the Bronx, many of them in private rental apartments nearby. Completion of the development probably will take to the mid-90's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cluster of Shorehaven's duplex town houses, with two duplexes per house, in construction on the East River in the Bronx, and, below, a rendering of the single-level, lower-priced models to be built there. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PHASE ONE SYSTEMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CLASONS POINT (NYC); MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FAMILY (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (64%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S



624 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 22, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND OPINION;
Power Authority Is Necessary To Oversee Lilco

BYLINE: By Richard Kessel; Richard Kessel is chairman of the Long Island Power Authority

 BODY:
ROBERT McMILLAN, former Republican candidate for the United States Senate, recently suggested that the State Legislature should scrap the Long Island Power Authority and allow the Long Island Lighting Company to manage Long Island's energy affairs. While Mr. McMillan may have full confidence in Lilco, I don't. That is why the Long Island Power Authority is so essential to Long Island's future.
The agency was established by Gov. Mario M. Cuyomo and the State Legislature in 1986 to address the myriad of energy problems faced by Long Island consumers. While the authority was clearly created out of a desire to end the Shoreham controversy once and for all, it was also given other important responsibilities in shaping Long Island's energy future. Let's deal with Shoreham first. 
No one can disagree that Shoreham was a disaster for all of Long Island. It was Lilco that mismanaged the construction of Shoreham into a $5.5 billion white elephant instead of the $269 million nuclear facility that was originaly projected in the late 1960s. Prior Lilco management did such a bad job in overseeing Shoreham's construction that even the Public Service Commission - never known as a friend to consumers - penalized Lilco for $1.45 billion of Shoreham's costs that had been imprudently incurred.
But it was Governor Cuomo alone who had the courage to develop a settlement that finally closed down Shoreham. For almost 20 years, no public official was willing to take the ''bull by the horn'' and deal directly with the Shoreham controversy. Most politicians were afraid to be decisive because they knew that whether Shoreham opened or not, rate increases were inevitable. So, instead, public officials railed against Lilco and Shoreham, but failed to take specific actions that could resolve the controversy.
Thus, it was left to Governor Cuomo to solve the Shoreham dilemma and allow Long Island to move forward with an intelligent alternative. The Governors' settlement to close Shoreham carefully and delicately balances the needs and interests of the various constituencies involved in the Shoreham controversy. And it ensures power supplies for Long Island at a far lower cost than if Shoreham had operated.
While Mr. McMillan would love to get rid of the power authority, the fact remains that it will be the agency in charge of decommissioning Shoreham, as well as studying its potential future uses. The board of the authority, consisting of nine Long Islanders, is the best agency to monitor the very complex process of decommisisoning a nuclear power plant on Long Island. While the New York Power Authorty will do the actual decommissioning work, we should keep in mind that Shoreham is only one of many state power authority projects all over the state. The Long Island Power Authority's efforts on the other hand will be almost solely dedicted to seeing that the Shoreham decommissioning project is carried out quickly and at the least possible cost to Lilco ratepayers.
Whle many people seek to throw stones at the power agency's efforts, the fact remains that since Lilco shareholders approved the Governor's settlement last June 28, the Long Island authority has moved speedily towards taking Shoreham out of service for good.
The Long Island authority recently submitted a preliminary decommissioning report to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission which outlines, in general terms, the steps that the agency intends to take to decommission Shoreham. Furthermore, in cooperation with the state power authorty, the Long Island Power Authortiy is now reviewing bids to prepare the final decommissioning plan for the plant.
Within the next few weeeks, the Long Island Power Authorty will formally apply to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for Shoreham's license. This highly complex application follows recent agreements among the Long Island power agency, Lilco and the state power authority that establish the various technical, organizational and financial interrelationships that will allow the Long Island authority to decommission Shoreham in a cost-effective manner. All of this has been done with a small staff so that the costs for Lilco ratepayers are kept as low as possible.
In addition to all of these tasks, the Long Island authority is studying the potentional of converting Shoreham to natural gas or another nonnuclear use. While Mr. McMillan seems to downplay that idea, the fact is that no one has ever serious looked at this alternative. The potential conversion of Shoreham can happen if, in fact, it makes sense both technically and economically. And, if a conversion can be accomplished, it will enable us to take what has been an economic disaster for Long Island and turn it into a significant asset.
The Long Island Power Authority is also undertaking other tasks that will have tremendous long-term benefits for the people of Long Island. The board recently embarked on a comprehenbsive study of Long Island's long-term energy needs to see how we can best meet them without having to build massive new power plants that cost too much money. Furthermore, the authority is planning to implement several demonstration projects to show that we can meet a great deal of Long Island's energy requirements through intelligent demand-side management and conservation measures.
Mr. McMillan obviously feels that we should let Lilco be solely responsible for Long Island's energy needs. This despite the Shoreham debacle, Hurricane Gloria, golden parachutes and extravagant bonuses. I frankly don't think that Long Islanders share Mr. McMillan's obvious enthusiasim for Lilco.
The Long Island Power Authority will be a potent force for Long Island as it moves into the next century. Shutting down Shoreham and doing it right benefits each and every Lilco ratepayer. And, the authority will always be there to study and implement the public power alternative, if Lilco goes off course in the future.
It is so easy to cast aspersions at the constructive efforts made by Governor Cuomo and the authority in dealing with problems that no one, including Mr. McMillan, decided to touch for almost 20 years. If only there had been a Long Island Power Authority when Shoreham was being planned and constructed, we might not be in the mess that we find ourselves in today. The Long Island Power Autority is the best way to get us out of this mess for good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (93%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; EDITORIALS ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: KESSEL, RICHARD M ROBERT MCMILLAN (68%); 



625 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 23, Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: No Safe Way To Dispose of Ash

 BODY:
The Long Island Regional Planning Board has finally discovered the problem and enormous expense of incinerator ash disposal. Proponents of full-scale-recycling have long contended that, besides the critical problem of hazardous emissions created by mass-burn incineration, there is no safe and economical way for disposing of ash.
However, after years of promoting incineration as a solution to Long Island's garbage crisis, the Planning Board has come up with a report on how to ''recycle'' ash (''Study Urges Recycling Ash from Municipal Incineratorws,'' May 6). 
Curiously, the findings of the study belie any endorsement of reusing ash. The study found through laboratory tests that organic toxics, such as dioxins and furans, and heavy metals, such as lead, cadmium and mercury, will leach from ash in concentrations that exceed hazardous waste standards as classified by the U.S. Government. Ash is presently exempt from those standards, although there is pressure in Congress to drop the exemption.
Despite the embarrassing research results, the authors of the study still claim that ash can be safely used for construction of artificial reefs and roadbeds, given the proper mix and restrictions. However, projecting the stability of toxins in ash over a 30-to 300-year time period from one 3-year study seems irresponsible at best, and deceitful at worst. The precarious and dangerous nture of this ash reuse proposal is further underscored by the uncertain classification of ash. If the E.P.A. were to act on the facts, ash would be declared hazardous waste, thereby rendering the entire $1-million study worthless.
The conclusions of the Long Island Regional Planning Board defy logic. Their ash reuse study, conducted at taxpayers' expense, points out the hazards and enormous cost of disposing of the ash presently generated on Long Island - a cost which will dramatically increase if the Planning Board and local municipalities proceed with plans to build an additional four to five incinerators. Logic should lead one to conclude that the solution lies in preventing further creation of ash by halting construction of all new incinerators.
Instead, the Planning Board, eager to justify incineration, has spent $1-million to contrive a solution to a problem that is based on an erroneous assumption in the first place: that Long Island needs more incinerators. The Coalition to Save Hempstead Harbor has developed a widely-acclaimed non-incineration and recycling plan for North Hempstead (which is now the basis for that town's full-scale recycling program) at one-tenth the cost of the ash study! If local citizens' groups had access to a portion of the funds allocated for questionable cover-up studies, many more viable non-incineration proposals would be developed that actually serve the public's best interest.
 
KAY BROMBERG
 Executive Assistant
 
Coalition to Save Hempstead Harbor
 Sea Cliff

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PLANNING BOARD (81%); LONG ISLAND REGIONAL PLANNING BOARD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND REGIONAL PLANNING BOARD

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; INCINERATORS TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (93%); EMISSIONS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (66%); 

PERSON: BROMBERG, KAY



626 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 23, Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Lower Budget, Lower Spending?

 BODY:
Having spent a good many of my 80 years absorbing the budget talks of a good many politicians, I have just about come to the reluctant conclusion that budgets will never get smaller, and that government agencies will never leave a single budget penny unspent, no matter how unwisely.
So along come the media to confuse me with promises of an imminent reduction in defense spending. A lowered over-all budget? Well, not exactly. A re-allocated budget, then?
I see possibilities in real location: a reduced federal deficit, perhaps, or some help to defense industries in re-tooling for non-military endeavors, or a few dollars spent to correct some glaring social ills.
Grinning again, I turn on the TV for more good news. I hear a familiar voice promising me a landing on Mars in the near future. Mars? Why Mars? And why Mars now, with re-allocation time upon us? I should have known better.
 
BORIS BERGER
 Freeport

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (87%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (54%); 

PERSON: BROMBERG, KAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 



627 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Race Tracks Seek Edge On Rivals

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY is the only state to have all three of the most popular forms of legalized gambling found around the country - horse racing, casino gambling and a state lottery - and at times the competition for the gambling dollar threatens to put one of the industries in the hole.
At the moment, it is the state's $1 billion racing industry, with its hundreds of breeding and training farms and five tracks, that is feeling the pinch, not only from the more recent casino and lottery operations but also from tracks in surrounding states.
The other states, including New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland, all allow racing on Sunday while New Jersey does not. Robert E. Mulcahy 3d, the president of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said this had the effect of a ''competitive siege'' that threatened the stability of racing in New Jersey.
A solution, which voters will most likely have a chance to decide on in November, is to allow Sunday racing as long as the tracks shut one other day, and to allow casino patrons to bet on the races through simulcasting hookups to the tracks. 
''More people will attend racing, just as they would any other entertainment opportunity, on a Sunday than they would on an early weekday,'' Mr. Mulcahy said. And he said the fatter purses that would result from the increased attendance would insure that New Jersey could compete for the better horses. ''Our quality of racing will continue to decline as other states' innovations lead to higher purses,'' he said. ''The horsemen will simply move their better horses, and thus the better product, to out-of-state tracks.''
 
'Rising Opposition' Among the Clergy
The Rev. Charles Rawlings, director of the New Jersey Council of Churches, said it was difficult to predict whether the council would take part in the public debate on Sunday racing since the issue had just arisen in the Legislature. ''However, there is a rising opposition among some members of the clergy to what they call 'business as usual' on Sunday, and I anticipate that some of them may have something to say about it later on,'' he said.
Bills to put the two proposals on the Nov. 6 general election ballot are making their way through the Legislature. Changes in casino operations can be made by the Legislature, but any change in parimutuel betting requires a constitutional amendment.
Even though voters approved a proposal to allow simulcasting races from one track to another in 1985 by a vote of 1,040,117 to 533,926, industry officials say there is an ''enough is enough'' mentality in the state when it comes to gambling. They say their job will be to convince voters that the changes do not constitute a significant extension of gambling but a vital restructuring of existing operations.
Oddly enough, races from New Jersey tracks are already simulcast to more than 20 states and Mexico. The casinos in Las Vegas allow their patrons to bet on New Jersey races. That is why, Mr. Mulcahy said, ''it's crazy not to allow simulcasting in our own casinos.''
James Murphy, president of the Atlantic City Racing Association, which supports the changes, told a legislative hearing that patrons of Nevada casinos bet $2 million a day on simulcast races, with $150,000 bet on races from New Jersey.
Mr. Murphy said his association supported both referendums even though he did not believe that Sunday racing would make a big difference at the Atlantic City Raceway because it operated at night.
''I think it will mean more for the daytime tracks, like Freehold Raceway, Monmouth Park in Oceanport and Garden State Racetrack in Camden,'' he said. ''But taken together, the two proposa ls are unquestionably the best thing we can do for racing in New Jersey.''
He said the absence of Sunday racing probably dated back to the state's old blue laws, which also prevented most stores from doing business on Sunday until the prohibition was phased out starting in the 1960's.
 
Proposal Rejected in 1980
Mr. Murphy said it still might be difficult to win voter approval for Sunday racing. A referendum on the question in 1980 was defeated by a vote of 1,285,074 to 996,006.
Mr. Mulcahy said racing experienced a 14 percent drop in business when the state lottery began in 1970 and a 43 percent decline when casinos began operation starting in 1978.
He said that the impact was ameliorated somewhat by the approval of simulcasting, but that there was still a ''staggering'' 26 percent decline from the days when the race tracks provided the only form of legal gambling.
Unless the racing industry wins approval for Sunday racing and simulcasting into the New Jersey casinos, Mr. Mulcahy said, ''the consequences of this simple economic reality are track closings, job losses, breeding farms' being put up for development and the inability of the sports authority to generate enough revenue from racing to meet our bond requirements.''
Mr. Mulcahy said a study by the financial consulting firm of Deloitte and Touche indicated that Sunday racing could bring in $5 million to $6 million more a year for the sports authority and up to $2.5 million in increased purses for the race winners. Simulcasting into the casinos could provide the authority with $7 million more and a similar boost to the purse structure.
 
Supported by Casinos
The New Jersey Casino Association does not believe that simulcasting will mean much to the bottom line as far as the casinos are concerned, but it is supporting the referendums.
''We're trying to support the race tracks on this, even though it's not a big dollar item for us,'' said William C. Murtha, vice president and general counsel of the association. ''There would be capital costs and operating costs, but we're supporting the idea of putting the question before the voter to help the tracks.''
Both Mr. Murtha and Mr. Mulcahy said the details of how the simulcasting would be operated and who would run the operation were yet to be worked out. Mr. Mulcahy said he hoped some plan of operation would be completed by the time the Legislature completed passage of the referendums, perhaps next month.
Leon Zimmerman, a lobbyist for the Standardbred Breeders and Owners Association, said his organization was solidly behind Sunday racing, but had some concern about simulcasting into the casinos that he hoped would be addressed if the referendum passed and the Legislature enacted enabling legislation next year.
''Virtually every other state that has racing allows Sunday racing,'' he said. ''It's a proven big day both in terms of attendance and handle.'' Handle is a racing term for the amount of wagering.
Mr. Zimmerman wants to make sure that the trotters and pacers that his organization represents are included in any casino simulcasting schedule that will probably also include races from thoroughbred tracks in other time zones in order to offer the casino patrons wagering opportunities during most of the hours they are open.
The association is also concerned that the casino simulcasting might reduce attendance and therefore the amount of wagering at the state's harness tracks. ''We're supporting the referendum, but we want to make sure we don't lose fans to the casinos,'' he said.
 
Concern on Compulsive Gambling
Arnie Wexler, the executive director of the Council on Compulsive Gambling of New Jersey, said he would alert the public to some of his concerns about the proposed gambling, including that it could increase the problem of compulsive gambling. But he said it would be up to the public to decide whether it wanted the changes.
Mr. Wexler has asked the legislative committee studying the changes to amend the bills to provide that 3 percent of the increase in revenue from any changes in the gambling statutes be turned over to the council to provide assistance to gambling addicts.
''People in New Jersey bet more than $5 billion last year, and the state received more than $800 million in tax revenues from gambling,'' Mr. Wexler said. ''But the council receives only $185,000 to run its programs.''
Emma Byrne, a spokeswoman for Gov. Jim Florio, said the Governor was concerned about addiction to gambling and would be willing to consider a proposal like Mr. Wexler's.
Mr. Wexler said that aside from financing, he was worried about the possibility that the simulcasting in the casinos might present another opportunity to increase the credit the casinos allowed gamblers, which he said was a major factor in encouraging people to bet more than they could afford.
He also said there was a study under way to allow people to telephone horse bets to the casinos. ''If we do that,'' he said, ''how do we make sure that minors aren't making bets?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; CASINOS; GAMBLING; SABBATH OBSERVANCE; REFERENDUMS; TELEVISION GAMING (95%); CASINOS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); RELIGION (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOTTERIES (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (61%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F ROBERT E MULCAHY (80%); JAMES MURPHY (56%); 



628 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 2, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: LINDEN JOURNAL;
City Officials and Airport Operator Debate Airfield's Future

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI

DATELINE: LINDEN

 BODY:
FORTY-FIVE years ago, low-flying aircraft were a welcome sight in this blue-collar industrial city. The Navy fighter planes produced at the General Motors Corporation plant along Route 9 here helped to employ thousands of workers in the name of the war effort. And when the war ended, the city got to keep the airfield across the highway that had been used as a test strip.
For residents, it signaled a postwar boom dependent on assembly plants and an energetic work force. But times have changed in this Union County city. Many of its industrial properties are silent now. The economically threatened G.M. plant no longer produces cars and is retooling for limited truck production. Workers there say they are lucky to have that much.
At Linden Airport, municipal officials have long argued that its 188 acres could best help the city's fiscal woes if it were sold to a developer. While it currently generates some $500,000 a year in revenues, selling the partly developed property, they say, could generate $70 million as well as future tax revenue. 
But the airport's current leaseholder and operator and the Federal Aviation Administration say that the field is serving a decidedly useful purpose as a home base to general aviation, or private, aircraft and that as a designated ''reliever'' field, it helps to take some of the burden away from nearby Newark International Airport.
 
'Multiplying' of Delays Predicted
Ending the airfield's operation, they say, would have a devastating domino effect upon the state's aviation community, forcing many small aircraft owners to move to other already overcrowded airports.
''We are hearing that air traffic delays and other problems at Newark Airport are going to increase some 30 percent over the next 10 years,'' said Paul Dudley, who operates Linden Air Services, which leases the airport. ''Start closing those small airfields like this one across the state, and you can take those delay problems in Newark and other metropolitan airports and start multiplying.''
According to the F.A.A. in Washington, the city is obligated to keep the airfield operating, no matter what. It accepted that condition when the airport was deeded over to Linden in 1947, but particularly since it has been the recipient of nearly $8 million in Federal Airfield Renovation grants over the last decade, the airstrip must technically remain open for the life of the improvements, which in this case last through the year 2002.
''There is still no doubt that the airfield, even though it plays an important role, could best help out the city if the land were used differently,'' Mayor Paul Werkmeister said.
Last year, to appease Government pressure, city officials elected to renew the airfield's lease but at a higher rental fee. The previous tenant had been paying $5,000 a month for use of the field, but the lease expired.
''We took it over by paying $46,000 a month,'' Mr. Dudley said, ''and if we're left alone to make this a viable business, we can make this a profitable venture, both for ourselves and the city.'' He is able to meet the higher rent, he said, because he subleases part of the airfield's hangar space to Trump Air Services, which operates a fleet of helicopters that provides transportation between Manhattan, Linden and Atlantic City.
A compromise may be reached sometime this year if a new municipal administration honors some of its promises, Mr. Dudley said.
In a primary election this month, Mr. Werkmeister lost to a fellow Democrat, John T. Gregorio, himself a former Mayor here, State Senator and State Assemblyman. Since he is running unopposed in November, his election bid is considered assured.
 
Years of Litigation Foreseen
Mr. Gregorio agrees with Mr. Werkmeister that the city would ideally benefit from the sale of the airfield, but the F.A.A. would block such a proposal, and the expensive legal maneuvering in the court system, which could take years, to fight the F.A.A. would essentially be ill advised.
''I do feel that the best route to take would be doing away with the airport altogether,'' Mr. Gregorio said. ''But at this point it is not a practical solution to involve the city in years of litigation.''
What he will propose to the F.A.A. and Mr. Dudley, he said, is to allow the city to develop 100 acres of the airfield adjacent to the highway for a hotel-office complex, while building new airport hangars and an operations building on the opposite side of the field near an oil tank farm. The area is currently used to park light aircraft on what was once a taxiway.
The cost of erecting new hangars and auxiliary buildings would be borne by a developer as a clause in the construction contract, Mr. Gregorio and Mr. Dudley said. Such a project could not be undertaken without direct F.A.A. approval, however.
''If that's what it takes for this airfield to keep operating, I think that we could all live with this kind of compromise,'' Mr. Dudley said, even though such a project would mean the elimination of one of the airfield's two intersecting runways.
While such a solution may seem promising, there is another problem that might lead to Mr. Dudley's ceasing operation.
Trump Air Services is feeling the backlash of its owner's financial problems. Mr. Dudley said, ''Donald Trump's rent to keep his air operation going here is $46,000 a month, which I pay over to the city as part of my rent.''
Mr. Dudley said that when the air services rent came due at the beginning of the month, ''we saw no check from Mr. Trump.'' A two-week extension was offered by Mr. Dudley and payment eventually came through, but ''I don't know if we're going to have to go through this same game next month or the month after that,'' Mr. Dudley said.
In New Jersey, according to the State Department of Transportation's Office of Aviation, the state is losing an average of one general aviation airport a year because of economic hardships. There are currently 58 general and commercial airfields in the state's 21 counties, compared with 69 in 1979.
 
'I'd Have to Relocate to Another State'
Linden Airport is a vital link for both private pilots and business interests, say those who use it.
''Many people based here use their aircraft for business, and its loss would change the way many people make a living,'' said Soloman Kramer of Elizabeth, a monorail company executive and veteran pilot. ''I'd have to relocate to another state and airfield if Linden closes the runways,'' he said, adding that 50 percent of his flying time involves company excursions.
Reuben R. Redfield of Short Hills, a certified public accountant who has been flying out of Linden since 1949, said, ''It saves me and my clients a lot of time and money to fly direct instead of having to rely on the airlines.''
Mr. Dudley said: ''These kinds of airports have a responsibility to stay open because this is where student pilots who eventually become airline pilots learn to fly. Take this away and others like it, and you do damage to an entire industry way down the line, and I sure don't want to be the guy to give the keys back on something as important as this.''

GRAPHIC: Photo; Paul Dudley, who operates Linden Air Services, which leases the 188-acre Linden Airport (F. N. Kinney for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LINDEN (NJ)

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; LINDEN AIRPORT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRIVATE AIRCRAFT; NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRPORTS (93%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (91%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); MAYORS (73%); 

PERSON: PARISI, ALBERT J PAUL DUDLEY (82%); JOHN T GREGORIO (68%); PAUL WERKMEISTER (61%); 



629 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 20, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
Let's Go To the Rescue Of the Guard

BYLINE: By Edward J. Kanarkowski; Edward J. Kanarkowski served as a commissioned officer in the Regular Army and the Army National Guard.

 BODY:
THE other night I picked up a newspaper and there it was: an article predicting virtual elimination of the 50th Armored Division, an Army National Guard unit based in New Jersey. Many of the division's fighting battalions have roots that go back to World War II.
The article blamed ''Army cost cutters'' for the impending reduction in National Guard presence. Throughout the Northeast, the article said, undermanned National Guard units, like the 50th Armored (reportedly at 75 percent of its authorized strength of 12,727), seem to be easy targets for Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney's zealous bean counters. 
New Jersey's state and Federal lawmakers should be alarmed at this development for at least two reasons. If the 50th folds its colors, the state stands to lose thousands of trained citizen soldiers, who are now available for state emergencies, and cold hard cash.
The Federal Government currently spends about $153 million annually (primarily for salaries) on the New Jersey National Guard. New Jersey spends only $9.4 million on its National Guard units, yet the state takes in better than $17 million in income taxes from those same Guard members. In other words, the state technically turns a profit of nearly $8 million under the existing National Guard financing plan.
In the cold-war era, New Jersey leaders - Republicans and Democrats alike - milked the state's National Guard arrangement with Uncle Sam. The state has consistently ranked in the bottom quartile of all states for offering state-paid inducements and fringe benefits for Guard membership. Over the long haul, that neglect translated into 3,400 vacancies in the 50th Armored, and now the division's uncertain future.
What can New Jersey do to avoid the loss of its National Guard muscle? Our political officials have to put aside partisan politics and develop an economical, efficient and revolutionary force-structure plan that Mr. Cheney and the Bush Administration simply can't refuse.
As a businessman with 12 years of commissioned service in the infantry under his belt (four of those years on active duty), my assessment is that the Army of the 90's will commit relatively few troops to limited conflicts (e.g., the rid-Panama-of-Noriega mission) and have fewer dollars to achieve its missions, which in turn will demand greater dependence on skilled and motivated reservists, who cost less to keep on the payroll.
How does New Jersey's 50th Division fit into this scenario? In a big way. Here's a plan that deserves careful consideration by decision makers in Trenton and Washington:
* Redesignate the 50th Armored as a ''hybrid light infantry'' (HLI) division. Eliminate its five tank battalions, consolidate all troops into two infantry brigades and train them for limited-conflict missions, including drug-interdiction forays on foreign soil. Infantrymen are the key players in limited-conflict warfare. They also happen to be the least expensive type of soldier to train, equip and maintain.
* Assign one active-duty infantry brigade (medical, transportation) to the reconfigured 50th Division. These elements will fill the approximately 3,400 spaces now vacant in the 50th. The active units will play two roles: handle most limited-conflict active-duty missions and train with the two National Guard ''sister brigades'' for larger-scale contingencies that will demand the effort and resources of the entire division. Under this arrangement, National Guard units also can train sufficiently to accomplish their ''state'' missions, like protecting property in an area hit by a hurricane or other natural disaster.
* Station the division at Fort Dix. The Army spent $160 million on base improvements at Dix over the last 10 years, including $6 million just to modernize firing range facilities. The taxpayers deserve to get their money's worth for dollars already spent. Fort Dix has the capacity and right mix of quarters to house the entire active-duty brigade (and its dependent families), the division headquarters and all support troops right on the base. Fort Dix also has sufficient firing ranges and other training facilities to accommodate active-duty troops during the week, and their National Guard counterparts for weekend drills and two weeks of mandatory annual active-duty training. A revived Fort Dix would give a B-12 shot to New Jersey's slumping economy.
* Train the division to work with Air Force elements at nearby McGuire Air Force Base. The 438th Military Airlift Wing is based at McGuire (which is adjacent to Fort Dix). The wing consists of about 50 huge C-141 jet transports that can take the new division's units virtually anywhere in the world. Most recently, the 438th helped ferry troops and equipment to and from Panama in the expedition to capture the Panamanian strongman, Manuel Noriega.
* Permit the division to provide basic training at Fort Dix for its own active-duty and National Guard recruits. The Army currently consolidates basic training at several Army Training Centers, including Fort Dix. The Pentagon plans to curtail all basic training at Fort Dix in 1991. That shouldn't happen. Basic training should remain on the post - but only for 50th Division recruits, full-timers and National Guard enlistees. This will permit the division's soldiers - particulary the guardsmen - to spend valuable time training on drill weekends with their ''home'' units. Training with one's own unit reinforces a soldier's personal commitment, pride and morale. The Army of the 90's needs to rededicate itself and its people to these values. Camaraderie at times can spell the difference between success and failure. It doesn't belong in a barracks broom closet.
The United States Army, an organization rich in tradition, needs to go back to its ''citizen soldier'' roots as it retools itself to meet the challenges of the 1990's. New Jersey has a unique opportunity to help shape this new Army and preserve the strength of its National Guard by supporting the plan for a hybrid force of active-duty and Guard assets.
The 50th Armored is an excellent candidate for reconfiguration as an HLI unit. The commissioned and noncommissioned officer ranks of the 50th boast a cadre rich in experience and talent.
It's time, once again, to call on the militia.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Tanks of the 50th Armored Division during maneuvers. The division is an Army National Guard unit based in New Jersey (The New Jersey National Guard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: LET'S GO PUBLICATIONS INC (58%); ARMY NATIONAL GUARD (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMIES ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COLD WAR (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INCOME TAX (67%); POLITICS (62%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: KANARKOWSKI, EDWARD J DICK CHENEY (56%); 



630 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 23, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER BOOKCASE

BYLINE: By Roland Foster Miller

 BODY:
Peril and Promise: A Commentary on America By John Chancellor Harper & Row. 176 pages. $17.95.
Something bad is happening in America but it's not too late to fix it.
John Chancellor, the NBC commentator who was that network's anchor from 1970 to 1982, has sat in the front row of history for decades. He has covered every Presidential election since 1956 and has interviewed every President since Harry S. Truman and every British prime minister since Clement Atlee. 
''There were observations I had about the condition of life in the United States that I could not get into minute-and-a-half commentaries on NBC,'' Mr. Chancellor said recently from his house in Pound Ridge, where he and his wife, Barbara, live.
''I had been thinking about writing a book, and then I spotted a Gallup poll that said that 58 percent on a national sample thought that Japan was the strongest economic power in the world,'' he said. ''That was more or less the catalyst, what led me into writing this book.''
The fact is, of course, that the United States remains the world's No. 1 economic power. But there are soft spots and slippages in many areas. Mr. Chancellor addresses those points as a self-described ''frightened optimist'' in this slim but fact-laden volume.
What would it take, Mr. Chancellor was asked, to make him an old-fashioned optimist? ''The first thing that would make me an optimist would be if Americans stopped thinking that we are in a state of decline,'' he said.
What would make him a hard-line pessimist? ''A continuation of the cowardly political system we seem to have been given, a continuation of the poor education system we have foundered into, the continued loss of American technology,'' he said. ''It sounds hokey, but Americans have forgotton to dream, when people all over the world - in Eastern Europe and Russia and China - have just learned to dream.''
Mr. Chancellor's ideal country would have a political system that is answerable to the people but at the same time leads the people. The White House and the Congress would work together on reducing the budget deficit and jointly seek an honest economic base for the country. He would also ''take the tin cup out of American politics'' through public financing of elections.
''If we can get a responsive political system operating on a strong economy, the future is limitless for this country,'' Mr. Chancellor said.
But what today would be the equivalent of a Pearl Harbor, a momentous and galvanizing event that would mobilize the country's leaders and population?
''Men from Mars landing in North Dakota,'' Mr. Chancellor replied. ''It's very hard to get America aroused. I argue in the book that what would be useful would be for the President and the Congress to call for a state of emergency, to go on television and tell the patient what's wrong. The plan, of course, would require that people bleed a little, work harder, pay more taxes. It would not be a Pearl Harbor, but a point of departure, a lot of people working toward a common goal.''
The peril facing the country, Mr. Chancellor says, is in part clouded by a failure to present the case properly: ''It has all been reported, but the problem is that it has not been packaged in a way ordinary viewers and readers can understand it.''
''Peril and Promise'' should be read, Mr. Chancellor said, by ''a woman who is interested in civic affairs, by a husband who serves on the school board and is active in his community.''
''I also wrote it to be accessible to young people,'' he added. ''It's for various activists in various cities and towns. It's a book for those people who are closest to their government and who can cause change.'' If every American read this book, America would benefit. Mr. Chancellor divides his time between an East Side Manhattan apartment, from which he walks to work at NBC to write and deliver his commentaries on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, and his home in the county, ''which makes New York bearable and where I do my non-NBC writing.
The commentator-author said that if ''Peril and Promise'' does well, he could be poised at ''the start of a new career at age 62.'' The book entered The New York Times best-seller list today at No. 9.
 
Empire of Heaven
By Linda Ching Sledge Bantam Books. 576 pages. $19.95.
Originally, Linda Ching Sledge set forth to write a nonfiction book based on her family with a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. But the more she researched her progenitors the more apparent it became that she would not be able to write a book about ''a Chinese-American family and how it had changed throughout history.''
''There had been no other book like that written'' at the time, Mrs. Sledge said. ''I wanted to make it a popular work, but it would be a very authentic one.''
The roots of Mrs. Sledge's ancestors grew deep but they were garden variety. ''My family was ordinary, and when I went around with my tape recorder I was recording ordinary stories from ordinary people,'' she said. ''I love my family very much but I knew this wasn't going to make a book.''
''Empire of Heaven'' draws from her family's history and from family legend nevertheless. ''When I closed the door on the book as a work of nonfiction,'' she said, ''the one thing that I couldn't forget was my great-grandfather. And that was the seed of the novel.''
Her great-grandfather, Ching family lore says, was adopted into a clan during the Taiping Rebellion, which blazed through China from 1847 through 1864. ''Empire of Heaven'' transforms him into a warrior who becomes the lover of Rulan, a Chinese girl who becomes a spirit woman, warrior and healer in the rebellion.
Both of those characters were born of the imagination, but others, like Hung Hsiu Chuan, were culled from history. Hung, who claimed that he was the younger brother of Jesus Christ, attracted a following of hundreds of thousands before he ''locked himself away with his 88 concubines in his palace after ordering the assassination of his top leaders.'' He then went mad.
When Nanking, his capital, fell in 1864, ''those Taiping faithful who were not slain in battle set themselves afire and threw themselves from the walls of the city. An estimated 100,000 perished in this way.''
''It's hard for a Chinese family to expose themselves,'' Mrs. Sledge said. ''Even in fiction it's hard. But they've all taken it very well. It's rather unusual in a Chinese family not to be able to trace your family back scores of generations, because of the worship of ancestors. My father's family was always very embarrassed about it. I wanted to turn that into a source of pride.''
Mrs. Sledge has, indeed, given birth to a vivid adventure, a saga of scale calling to mind a Chinese ''Gone With the Wind.'' ''It's a genre work, a historical work, a piece of popular fiction,'' Mrs. Sledge said. ''My models were Michener and Clavell and Mary Renault. The Taiping Rebellion is, if you like, like the fall of Troy. Even though this is a work of commercial fiction, I wanted to give my family a kind of heroic stature'' in the work.
Mrs. Sledge, who began writing ''Empire of Heaven'' in late 1982 and finished it last year, said the experience meant that ''dreams can come true.''
''Writing a novel is something I've always wanted to do, not from some kind of genius but from just plain hard work,'' she said. ''Even more so after Tienenman Square. It was this horde of people rising, this grass-roots rebellion. The Chinese will always rise up and throw off their leaders. It was the same kinds of seeds of discontent that formed the Taiping Rebellion.''
Mrs. Sledge is also Dr. Sledge of the English department at Westchester Community College in Valhalla. For 15 years, she has lived in Pleasantville with her husband, Gary Allen Sledge, a senior editor at the Reader's Digest. He collaborated with her in writing ''Empire of Heaven.'' The story will continue, Mrs. Sledge said, with a sequel that picks up the family in Hawaii.
 
Survival Skills For College
By Mary C. Starke Prentice Hall. 315 pages. $22.60.
Oh, that a book like this had been around some years ago. High school-age students, of course, think that the accumulated knowledge of humankind resides beneath their hatbands. For that reason, freshman year at college can be a great leveler. The social order is changed, teachers no longer hold students' hands and there is growing apprehension that there are things yet to be learned.
''Survival Skills for College'' by Dr. Mary C. Starke, a Briarcliff resident since 1981, offers solutions to many of the problems facing today's neophyte collegians - who are all too often ill-prepared for the tasks and tests ahead.
''This book is not only for college freshmen,'' Dr. Starke said, ''but also for high school students and people who have been out in the work force, or for homemakers - students entering college for the first time. They don't know how much the personal and social aspects bear on their success in college.''
''Survival Skills'' grew out of Dr. Starke's 20 years of college teaching and her work ''with students at both ends of the spectrum'' at Ramapo College in Mahwah, N.J., a 4,000-student liberal arts institution just over the Rockland County border. This volume grew from an in-house text of hers that was tested at the college, with some interesting results.
''The in-house book has raised the persistence rate 16 percentage points at Ramapo,'' said Dr. Starke, a clinical psychologist who earned her doctorate at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. ''We've also found that students' grade-point averages go up, that they're more satisfied with the college experience, that they have more contact with the faculty, are more involved in extracurricular activities and therefore the ties that help them remain.''
The oversized soft-cover book mixes text with exercises, making students ''active partners rather than having them trying to assimilate the material just by osmosis,'' Dr. Starke said.
With 30 percent of the freshmen in the United States dropping out and fewer than 55 percent of them staying on until graduation, Dr. Starke said, the freshman year - and preparation for it - are all important.
''We are finding,'' she said, ''that students who learn about the benefits of higher education, who learn how to manage their time and cope with stress, who learn how to improve their communication skills and research career options are more likely to remain in college.
''We are teaching freshmen how to do research and write papers, how to interact with students from varied backgrounds, how to perfect their note-taking and study skills, how to examine their values and deal effectively with roommate and dating problems.''
Can reading a book like ''Survival Skills'' really be helpful? ''Yes - not only by reading but by actively practicing what the books says,'' Dr. Starke said. ''That is why those exercises are there. Students can compare their notes with what a really good set of notes are.''
Dr. Starke said that other institutions, including Ohio University, Indiana University and the University of South Carolina - which she said recently ordered 800 of her books - have been reporting success with programs similar to the one at Ramapo.
The author's husband, Charles, is a physician, and the couple have two children, 12 and 13. ''The daughter in junior high school is already using the book,'' Dr. Starke said.

GRAPHIC: Photo of author John Chancellor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PERIL AND PROMISE: A COMMENTARY ON AMERICA (BOOK); EMPIRE OF HEAVEN (BOOK); SURVIVAL SKILLS FOR COLLEGE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MARS (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO INC (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); WRITERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); LITERATURE (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (56%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); SPACE EXPLORATION (50%); 

PERSON: MILLER, ROLAND FOSTER; CHANCELLOR, JOHN; SLEDGE, LINDA CHING; STARKE, MARY C LINDA CHING SLEDGE (61%); 



631 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17
 
Canadian leaders appealed for calm after the collapse of a constitutional settlement with Quebec. Canada's Prime Minister and Quebec's Premier promised careful reflection before they address the province's place in the Canadian confederation. Page 1
 
Quebec's economy is growing and could operate on its own, should the province choose to leave Canada, economic experts say. These experts cite Quebec's expanded manufacturing base as a reason for optimism. 1
 
Moody and torn, Quebecers explore a future quite apart 10
 
Does Leningrad believe in Lenin? Reformers in the first city of the Bolshevik Revolution are moving to strip Lenin's heirs of their power, their property and even their ism. 1
 
Russian Communists took a hard line in their vote for party leader, selecting a Marxist economist who immediately criticized President Gorbachev for being too tolerant and cautious in dealing with the nation's turmoil. 8
 
U.S.-Soviet plan for World Court meets difficulties 9
 
Atomic energy in Eastern Europe had been produced under dangerous conditions because the Soviet Union did not inform other countries of design flaws in Soviet-made equipment, officials in these countries now say. 8
 
Searchers dig for survivors in Iran. Days after the devastating earthquake struck, uncounted bodies are placed in mass graves and estimates of the death toll continue to climb, most recently to 35,000. 16 
 
Despite tensions with Iran, Americans aid quake relief 16
 
Some offer the United States of Italy as a model for the Italian Government. A regional party in the more affluent North is gaining popularity by trying to decrease the power of Rome. 3
 
Abu Nidal's rivals seem to be gaining 17
 
Scientists report faster ozone loss 13
 
Reports from Phnom Penh indicate new instability 4
 
Guatemala President stars in politcal drama 14
 
U.S. sued in death of a journalist in Panama 15
 
Shootings in Haiti set back election hopes 5
 
National 18-23
 
The strain of typing on computers has led workers to report that they suffer from disabling ailments related to their jobs. In 1988, 48 percent of workplace illnesses in private business were due to such ailments. 1
 
Short-distance communication is becoming a prized commodity as many expanding industries are jostling for space on the radio-wave spectrum as their needs expand. 1
 
Nelson Mandela promoted education as ''the most powerful weapon we will need,'' in a talk at a Boston high school to an audience composed mostly of black teen-agers. 21
 
At home, Mandela trip is a triumph 21
 
Mandela's daughters still wait for their turn 21
 
At a distance, whites differ on Mandela 21
 
A village along the Ohio River is burying its dead and worrying about its missing. Though this part of the country is used to natural disasters, this village of 4,300 is remains in shock over the disaster. 18
 
The arrest of ice cream vendors in many Chicago suburbs, a departure from the summer norm, is the result of laws delcaring the ice cream vending trucks to be a traffic hazard. 1
 
Reporter's Notebook: Act-Up, an AIDS protest group, continued their series of daily protests at the AIDS conference in San Francisco with a hand-in-hand walk with policy makers and researchers to draw attention to their shared goals. 23
 
AIDS experts tell of work on possible vaccines 23
 
20 years later, a photography brings vindication 18
 
Trappings of affluence draw crowd to auction 18
 
Backers push Louisiana abortion bill toward Supreme Court test 23
 
Church lawyers say stolen art in Texas was moved 19
 
Regional 24-28
 
The needs of city and rural patients have come in conflict as a Federal program that provides doctors to poor communities must decide whether to station its physicians in the inner city or in Indian reservations and other poor rural areas. 1
 
The Manhattan District Attorney is being criticized for running a Harlem office that some in the community say has not won the confidence of its neighbors and therefore does not handle many cases. 24
 
New York co-ops and condominiums are in trouble because the weakening real-estate market is hurting sponsors. To convert rental buildings to co-ops or condominiums, these sponsors bought large blocks of unsold apartments. 25
 
A Manhattan condominum auction, with about $17 million worth of apartments on the block, gives further evidence that the real-estate boom of the late 1980's is a thing of the past. 25
 
A shooting at a nightclub left one person dead and five others injured. A patron opened fire on the nightclub's bouncers after an argument. 25
 
A jilted bride waste little of her cake 25
 
Legal Aid beats second bidder to renew contract 28
 
Obituaries 26
 
June Christy, a jazz singer
 
Arts/Reviews
 
Music: The Jazz Passengers 47
 
Rarities from the 1700's 48
 
Dance: Ashley in ''Firebird'' 48
 
Campus Life 31-33
 
Fashion 42-43
 
Life Style 34-36
 
Pastimes 49-51
 
Weddings 44-47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (62%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (62%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (62%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); ITALY (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (62%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); JOURNALISM (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); OZONE DEPLETION (50%); 

PERSON: NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (76%); 



632 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Rising Party in Italy's North Wants to Get Rome and the South Off Its Back

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CENE, Italy

 BODY:
On a chilly spring evening in this northern Italian town, a dozen leaders of the new local government gathered on the front porch of the Coba Bar, talking about revolution.
They hardly looked like revolutionaries, sitting there over coffee and mineral water at their favorite hangout. They seemed nothing more than a familiar assortment of businessmen and workers, soft-spoken and relaxed, with not a professional politician in the bunch.
But if Cene's leaders get their way, they would overthrow the basic structures that have kept Italy intact since its unification 129 years ago. They are dead serious, and they and their supporters have grown strong enough that the rest of the country is nervously watching them. 
Cene, a small valley town in Lombardy near the foothills of the Alps, stands in the front ranks of a young and increasingly potent regional party called the Lombard League, led by people who are fed up with domination by Rome. In effect, they insist on creating a United States of Italy, a federal system that might be patterned less on an American model than the Swiss, but either way would give full autonomy to Lombardy and other regions in the country's affluent North.
 
Two Italies, North and South
In short, they want a form of divorce from a central Government that they consider bloated and corrupt.
The Lombard League's emergence as a political force is perhaps the most graphic sign in years that one of Italy's oldest problems - the division between its developed North and its sometimes feudal South - may be deeper than ever. Many Italians fear that even as their country moves toward full economic integration with the rest of Western Europe, the so-called two Italys are sliding further apart.
Critics, especially in the South, accuse the Lombard League of being little more than a collection of rich bigots. They cite the group's calls for tougher immigration laws, plus frequent comments from its members that suggest disdain for the South as a backwater where people kill one another, steal public funds and speak incomprehensible Italian.
Luigi Moretti, one of two Lombard League members of the European Parliament, complained in an interview that there were too many southern teachers in Lombard schools, providing an inferior education. ''We want to impart a culture,'' he said, ''not a subculture.''
 
Revolt Against Inefficiency
But league members dismiss racism charges as a smokescreen tactic invented by their opponents. What they are engaged in, they say, is a tax revolt against a Rome-based bureaucracy whose decisions are guided by political patronage and marked by notorious inefficiency.
''The North has been supporting special interests and parties in the South for years, and we say, enough,'' said Senator Umberto Bossi, an intense man in his late 40's who is the Lombard League's guiding spirit.
Mr. Bossi's power to galvanize was displayed a few weeks ago in Pontida, not far from Cene on the outskirts of the postcard-perfect city of Bergamo. There, thousands of league supporters gathered, cheering as their leader denounced ''the centralist Roman underworld, on our backs for the last 40 years.''
The crowd roared back, ''Rome, you thief, the league will not forgive you!''
Their chant has found a responsive chord among the middle class in Lombardy, where the average per-capita income of $12,000 a year is twice that of Sicily's. It also seems to carry a strong appeal for large numbers of youths seeking an outlet for protest.
 
Tax Burden Is Heavier
Lombardy's nine million residents are among Italy's most prosperous. They form 15 percent of the population, but account for 25 percent of the gross national product and pay 25 percent of all taxes.
Only 18 percent comes back in state services, however, and people here complain that too much of the rest winds up in the economically backward but politically skillful South. There, they say, it goes not to help the needy but rather to line the pockets of politicians and Mafiosi. Indeed, there is ample anecdotal evidence to support many of their accusations.
Under the league's federal plan, Rome would take whatever small share of tax money it may need for national defense and foreign policy. The rest would stay where it is collected.
''I'm not saying that we're better or worse than the South,'' said Renato Bazzana, a league member who owns the Coba Bar and who has just become Deputy Mayor of this town of 3,700 residents. ''I'm just telling you that they have a different mentality down there.''
 
Named for 12th-Century Revolt
The Lombard League, formed in 1979 and named after a 12th-century federation of northern cities that rebelled against the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, might have been dismissed until recently as a band of extremists.
But it recorded remarkable gains in local elections last month, producing expressions of alarm from political leaders and from the Vatican newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano. President Francesco Cossiga clearly had the league in mind when he denounced groups intent on dividing the nation with ''raving nonsense'' dictated by ''confused feelings, obscure resentment and forced folklore.''
In Lombardy the league drew nearly 20 percent of the popular vote to become the second largest party behind the Christian Democrats. On a nationwide level, its vote share came to about 5 percent, greater than that won by three of the five parties making up Italy's governing coalition.
It has followed this success with a new labor union of its own to press specific Lombard demands. It has also helped strengthen electoral support for similar leagues demanding autonomy, particularly in the neighboring regions of Piedmont and Veneto, where many people regard themselves as part of Middle Europe and Rome as lying on Africa's northern fringe.
 
Town Governed by League
Here in Cene, the Lombard League was No. 1 by far with 43 percent of the vote. As a result, this town has become Italy's only municipality to be governed by the league.
''There is no question that how we manage our town will be a big test for the league,'' said Mayor Franco Bortolotti, who owns a local transport company.
Although Mr. Bossi and others insist they are not motivated by anti-southern prejudice, others are not convinced. One of them is Ignazio Insisa, a taxi driver from Garbagnate - near the Lombard capital, Milan - who in reaction to the league has formed a group called the Southern Star.
Mr. Insisa was 16 years old in 1950 when he came to Lombardy from Sicily, one of millions of Italian southerners who migrated north in those years in search of a living. His first job was cleaning out barns for a few lire a day.
There was great anti-southern prejudice then, he says, but in time it started to subside. Lately, it has begun to pick up steam again, and he blames Mr. Bossi for ''unleashing this hate.''
 
Disturbing New Trends
For years, southern Italians have been referred to derisively in the North as ''terroni,'' a word that can be most politely translated as ''clodhoppers.'' Now, Mr. Insisa and others see disturbing new trends, like signs outside bars that say, ''Terroni and dogs are not allowed.'' When the Naples soccer team played in Milan one Sunday last winter, local fans displayed a large banner saying, ''Hitler: Do to the Neapolitans What You Did to the Jews.''
All of which leaves many Italians wondering if they have made much progress since the 1860's, when the statesman Massimo D'Azeglio observed after Italy's unification: ''We have made Italy. Now we must make Italians.'' Mr. Bossi has no doubts. ''We have not yet created Italians,'' he said. ''In fact, there is no Italy. There are at least three Italies -North, which is Middle Europe, and the other two, the Center and the South.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many Italians fear that the rift between northern and southern Italy is deepening. At a rally in Verona, Senator Umberto Bossi, head of a regional party in the north called the Lombard League, said, ''The North has been supporting special interests and parties in the South for years, and we say, enough.'' (Francesco Garufi/Laky Star for The New York Times); Map of Italy showing location of Cene.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ALPS (77%); 

COMPANY: LOMBARD LEAGUE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ITALY; ROME (ITALY)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); MOUNTAINS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); IMMIGRATION LAW (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE



633 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: The Mandela Visit;
Education Is Mighty Force, Boston Teen-Agers Are Told

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, June 23

 BODY:
Nelson Mandela paused for a moment today in his single-minded concentration on ending South African apartheid to offer some advice to black teen-agers.
''Try as much as possible to remain in school, because education is the most powerful weapon we will need,'' he told an almost worshipful crowd of about 2,000 people packed into the stuffy gymnasium at Madison Park High School in Roxbury, a predominantly black section of Boston.
This city, with its support of divestment from businesses in South Africa and its large South African exile community, was a natural for Nelson and Winnie Mandela's eight-city tour.
In addition, Senator Edward M. Kennedy has been a driving force in anti-apartheid legislation, and his brother, President John F. Kennedy, began this country's first sanctions against South Africa. And there are personal reasons for the visit here: two of Mr. Mandela's daughters live in Boston. 
 
Addressing American Concerns
Black Americans have responded emotionally to Mr. Mandela, the living symbol of the anti-apartheid struggle and deputy president of the African National Congress, hailing him as a hero and a leader reminiscent of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X. But this was the first time Mr. Mandela, who had concentrated his remarks on the South African issue, has addressed concerns of black Americans. At Boys and Girls High School in Brooklyn the other day, for example, he launched almost immediately into a fund-raising appeal.
After a triumphant three-day reception in New York that included a ticker-tape parade, a speech to the United Nations, jubilant receptions on the streets of Bedford-Stuyvesant and Harlem and the donning of a New York Yankee jacket and cap, Mr. Mandela arrived here this morning about two hours late, as has become normal.
He will travel Sunday to Washington, where he will meet President Bush in the White House on Monday and speak to Congress on Tuesday. Then he is on to Atlanta, Miami, Detroit, Los Angeles and Oakland. There are nearly identical schedules along the way, featuring motorcades, welcoming ceremonies with politicians crowding close for the cameras and fund raising at receptions, concerts and rallies.
 
Lunch With Kennedy
In addition to his brief speech in Roxbury, Mr. Mandela had a private lunch with Senator Kennedy and other members of the Kennedy family at the Kennedy Library on the University of Massachusetts campus in the Dorchester neighborhood. He also mingled at a $5,000-a-couple formal dinner for 1,000 people and spoke during a six-hour-long concert.
The concert at the Esplanade on the banks of the Charles River included Paul Simon, whose ''Graceland'' album featured South African singers. At the concert, Mr. Mandela personally thanked Senators Kennedy and John Kerry and Mayor Raymond Flynn for support of divestment.
Sponsors of the events hope to raise $1 million for the Fund for a Free Africa, said Jean M. Mahoney, director of the Reebok Foundation, a principal fund-raiser.
The excitement Mr. Mandela is generating was evident in posters and banners all over the city. Bells pealed this morning from the city's churches in welcome. The police department canceled all days off and put officers on motorcycles, horses, bicycles, boats and in scuba-diving gear.
Outside Madison Park High, T-shirt hawkers displayed their wares with pictures of Mr. Mandela and of Malcolm X, who was once a street hustler in the neighborhood.
 
Prisoners Disciplined
The Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts criticized state prison officials for isolating eight inmates on the eve of Mr. Mandela's visit for wearing leather medallions cut in the shape of Africa and stamped with black, green and yellow, the colors of the African National Congress.
Katherine Robertson, a spokeswoman for the Department of Correction, said, ''That kind of thing cannot be tolerated, for obvious reasons.'' She said other prisoners had been disciplined for wearing shamrocks.
While the Boston area includes a large liberal and academic community that gave considerable support to the anti-apartheid movement, the city was the scene of racial tension in the mid-1970's, when a Federal Court ordered busing for school desegregation.
But the other day, Mayor Flynn, who grew up playing basketball on the all-white playgrounds of his Irish-American South Boston neighborhood, presided over a ceremony in which the flag of the African National Congress was raised at City Hall.
Mr. Mandela was received with chants of ''Free South Africa'' that shook the bleachers in the gym and responded with a clenched fist salute and a cry of ''Amandla,'' Zulu for ''power,'' which was shouted back by the crowd.
Thanking them for their support which, he said, had helped force the white South African Government to remove the ban on the A.N.C. and to release political prisoners, including himself, Mr. Mandela concluded by telling the crowd, ''we respect you, we admire you, and, above all, we love you.''
''We love you, too,'' the cry came back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy giving Nelson Mandela a bust of his brother, President John F. Kennedy, at Kennedy Library in Boston. At right is Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the former President's widow. At center in background is Eunice Shriver, Mr. Kennedy's sister. (Associated Press); Mr. Mandela waving at the end of three-day visit to New York. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE WORSTEDS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON SPINNERS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (91%); SOUTH AFRICAN FLOCK LTD (91%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; ROXBURY (MASS)

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); BLACKS (NON-US) HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); DIVESTITURES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (60%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN; MANDELA, NELSON; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); KENNEDY, JOHN FITZGERALD (1917-63) JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); TED KENNEDY (91%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



634 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 32, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Chicago;
Student Group Seeks Closer Ties To Neighborhoods

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
Taking their cue from a long-dor mant neighborhood organization, students at the University of Chicago have formed a community action group that aims to dissolve what they see as racial and economic barriers separating the university from surrounding neighborhoods. The group is modeled on the Student Woodlawn Area Project, founded in 1966 with the same objectives. Students in the new organization, called Student Neighborhood Action Project, or SNAP, hope to combine community service with scholarly research and discussion to promote greater understanding between town and gown. 
Rebecca Reuter, a sophomore biology major from Chicago and a founding member of SNAP, said she hoped the group could ''help people change their views about students and help students change their views of the surrounding communities and the people in them.'' Although she was born and raised in Chicago, she said she ''didn't hear anything about the U. of C. - when you go there, you feel separated from the city.''
Another founding member, Naomi Swinton, an anthropology major from Morrisville, Pa., who just completed her first year, said she hoped SNAP's membership would not be limited to college students. ''We want faculty and staff, as well as neighborhood residents, including high school students,'' she said.
 
'We Are Not Bad People'
The group has come up with several projects for the summer and fall, aimed at meeting three goals: improved community relations within the university, closer ties with Chicago's South Side and increased discussion of racial and economic equality.
SNAP intends to work, for example, with local high school students, encouraging them to stay in school and consider attending college. Other projects will be assigning university students to work at nonprofit agencies and sponsoring a neighborhood painting and cleanup day.
SNAP's members have also joined an effort to keep the nearby public library open. They hope to use it as a base for neighborhood tutoring and reading programs.
''We want to spread the word that we are not bad people, we're not these elitists,'' said Ken Kawashima, a freshman East Asian studies major from Bowling Green, Ohio.
Gary Orfield, a political science professor who has agreed to advise SNAP, said efforts like this ultimately have ''a much deeper effect on students'' than the neighborhood problems they sought to remedy. The projects ''give you a much richer understanding of political and social questions,'' he said.
 
Summer Reading List
On campus, members of the group plan to create a supplementary orientation program for incoming freshmen. The current program includes a lecture on personal security that SNAP members say overemphasizes the negative aspects of life on Chicago's South Side.
SNAP members said warnings by administration representatives not to venture out of the area patroled by the campus police had deterred students from becoming involved with the community. The enhanced orientation, Ms. Swinton said, will include a history of the South Side, a discussion of the possibilities for community action and advice about using public transportation safely.
Students have also compiled a summer reading list in consultation with Mr. Orfield. They say they will hold informal study sessions next year at which readings, ranging from Richard Wright's ''Native Son'' to Dan Rose's ''Black Street Life'' to biographies of Chicago's late Mayor Harold Washington, will be discussed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (92%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO

SUBJECT: RACIAL RELATIONS; DISCRIMINATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); CAMPUS SECURITY (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); TRENDS (69%); POLITICS (65%); LIBRARIES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



635 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 5, Column 0; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: Quebec Could Easily Prosper On Its Own, Economists Say

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Whatever the outcome of Canada's crisis over Quebec, the French-speaking province has slowly developed an economy strong enough to allow Quebec to separate and become a nation three times the area of France, taking with it nearly a quarter of Canada's wealth.
Few economists challenge the proposition that a new generation of French-speaking business leaders have greatly expanded Quebec's manufacturing base, giving the province the wherewithal to operate on its own. Even those who hope the Canadian union will be saved acknowledge that secession can work, provided that Quebec enjoys the good will of the United States.
''The economic viability of Quebec is no longer in doubt,'' said John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard economist, himself Canadian-born. ''But this is not the issue. The political and cultural loss to Canadians would be irretrievable.'' 
On Friday night it became apparent that Canada's nine other provinces would not meet the deadline for all of them to approve the Meech Lake Accord, which would have recognized Quebec as a ''distinct society.''
The death of the accord has brought a new stalemate to the political maneuvering over the drive for separatism, a movement that some Quebec officials fear could be damaging to the economy. In a speech in Quebec City yesterday, Robert Bourassa, the Premier of Quebec, said, ''The government will never take risks with the economic security of Quebec .''
Nevertheless, Quebec seems to be moving toward de facto autonomy anyway, propelled by French-speaking executives, men mostly in their late 40's. In interviews last week in Montreal, several of the executives made it clear that they see greater autonomy not so much as an ideological goal but as good in the long run for their businesses and for the province's economy. Over the last 15 years, French-speaking executives have gained control of Quebec's industries, replacing English-speaking managers who had held sway for generations.
They now own or control companies that employ 61 percent of the province's work force, up from less than 50 percent in the early 1970's, according to Government data. And as Quebec's manufacturing base grows and diversifies, they speak restlessly of Montreal as the vibrant commercial center of a province whose main growth in the future will be through exports to the United States and Europe. Seventeen percent of Canada's exports, or nearly $23 billion, comes from Quebec.
Rene Pelletier, president of Barometer, a polling company whose public opinion surveys in the province show a majority favoring separation, said, ''People here know that to be independent tomorrow morning would have a price, but businessmen say that it would be easier to operate as a trading center if Quebec were independent.''
There is indeed some handwringing over the prospect of separation. Ghislain DuFour, head of Quebec's Employer Council, which represents more than 500 companies, worries that the province's economy might not yet be strong enough to prosper during a period of transition and uncertainty -an uncertainty that has already reduced investment in the province and pushed up interest rates on Quebec's bonds.
What is more, even the most ardent separatists, among them Jacques Parizeau, leader of the Parti Quebecois, acknowledge that a breakaway Quebec could run into difficulty without the good will of the United States and neighboring Ontario. In virtually everyone's view, the United States would have to extend to Quebec the free trade agreement now in effect for all of Canada, and Ontario would have to continue to purchase huge quantities of Quebec's output.
Ontario is Canada's wealthiest province, turning out 38.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, followed by Quebec, with 23.6 percent. Quebec's G.D.P. alone is roughly $129 billion in United States dollars, and the two provinces sell to each other more than 20 percent of their total output.
Mr. Parizeau argues that Ontario could not afford to give up the Quebec market, and he says that American business executives would not want to exclude Quebec, with its nearly seven million people, from the free trade zone. Canada's total population is about 27 million.
 
Daily Life Is Not Impeded
Aside from these concerns, the people of Quebec have dealt with the debate over the province's status almost as spectators. Life proceeds routinely and many Quebecois, as the residents are called, seemed last week to view the breakdown of the Meech Lake effort as simply another step on a very long road to greater autonomy.
Francois Lebrun, executive director of the Meech Lake Business Association, an organization of 3,000 mostly French-speaking businessmen who favor the Meech Lake Accord, said: ''We have been negotiating the issue of separation for more than 100 years, and the negotiations will keep on. Nothing will be noticeably different here on Monday.''
Even as they negotiated, the Quebecois were expanding their high-technology manufacturing sector, quintupling since 1979 the number of companies established in the province each year. The change makes Quebec less dependent on textiles and apparel, two dying traditional industries, and on the sale of natural resources, particularly cheap hydroelectric power.
The natural markets for the new production of flight simulators, snowmobiles, subway cars, plastics, electronic devices, engineering services, telecommunications equipment and the like are the United States and Europe, rather than Canada, with its sparse population. This new emphasis on trade comes just as the 18-month-old free trade agreement with the United States is beginning to bring down tariff barriers, a huge encouragement for Quebec business executives to see the province as part of a North American economy.
 
A Stronger Identity
The secession crisis in the 1970's strengthened the business community's identity with Quebec. The crisis prompted thousands of English-speaking business people to migrate with their families from Montreal to Toronto, shifting many enterprises and some 14,000 management jobs to that rival and bigger commercial center. The English-speaking business community that remains is mostly bilingual and more often than not it shares management posts with French-speaking executives, said Alex Harper, executive director of the Montreal Board of Trade, an association of 3,000 companies.
Until 1967, English only was spoken in the board's dining room and bar for members. Now French and English intermingle, and Mr. Harper said, ''I think that the Anglophones here today identify more with the Francophones than with the rest of English-speaking Canada.''
But for all the new confidence and bravado about going it alone, there is much bracing for what economists describe as the short-term impact of the failure to ratify Meech Lake - a failure that would breed uncertainty about Quebec's future.
Already, new capital investment, both foreign and domestic, has declined and the interest rates on the bonds sold by Quebec's huge government-owned hydroelectric company, Hydro-Quebec, are running one-half to one percentage point above their usual levels. The utility has $18.7 billion in debt outstanding, much of it held in the United States, and it plans to borrow nearly $50 billion in this decade.
Still, three preliminary estimates -from Merrill Lynch & Company, the Bank of Montreal and the Toronto-Dominion Bank - all argue that the Quebec economy could survive separation, or much greater autonomy, with minimum damage. ''Given the economic strengths of the province, one could argue that a 'sovereign' rating on Quebec would not be much different from its rating as a province,'' Merrill Lynch said.
The Merrill report, although written in New York, undoubtedly reflected the thinking of Pierre Laurin, vice chairman of Merrill's Canadian operation and a leader of the new French-speaking executives.
''Business in Quebec is increasingly internationally oriented and Merrill Lynch is positioning itself to be the interface with American investors,'' said Mr. Laurin, who tells of plunging into Harvard Business School in the 1960's, barely able to speak English, because he did not want to spend his life working for English-speaking bosses, as his father had.
''You have to look at this with perspective,'' said Mr. Laurin, who is 50 years old. ''We have spent years negotiating separation and I am sure that compromises will keep developing.''
 
The Reins of Power
Mr. Laurin's generation of French-speaking businessmen now run such powerhouse corporations as Bombardier, the aerospace manufacturer; Bell Canada, the national phone company, and Steinberg's, a huge discount store chain.
Mr. Lebrun, who is also vice president of Raymond, Chabot, Martin, Pare, Quebec's biggest accounting firm, is a spokesman for this group. He is a lawyer who never practiced, instead pushing his way into business instead 20 years ago.
''Independence for Quebec was unthinkable in the business community a decade ago, and now sovereignty is a serious option,'' he said, recalling that his father had worked for the English-speaking managers of a fur company and had been forced to operate in English at work.
''I cannot imagine losing my language and culture and we cannot maintain it unless we do business in French,''Mr. Lebrun said.
 
Quebec's Distinctions
Other factors are also separating the Quebec economy from the rest of Canada. Alone among the provinces, Quebec manages its own Social Security and public pension funds, investing billions of dollars in Quebec companies.
The province also sends to the federal Government in Ottawa roughly as much as it gets back in various social payments, government contracts, military spending and the like, according to the Frazier Institute, an economic research organization in Vancouver, British Columbia.
The net flow from Ottawa, is a negligible $300 a year for each of the province's 6.7 million people, says Michael Walker, the institute's director. ''If you had a referendum on autonomy in Quebec, the people would say, 'well, that's three or four meals out and a movie. What's the big deal','' Mr. Walker said. Quebec businessmen are also dissatisfied with the Bank of Canada's monetary policy, which has pushed up interest rates to control inflation, which is now running about 5 percent a year. As Mr. Laurin and others see it, the inflation is mostly in Ontario.
In Quebec, the high interest rates are discouraging investment and slowing economic activity at a time when Quebec's unemployment rate is 9.3 percent, almost twice the national average, mostly because of layoffs in the dying textile and apparel industries.
''It's an irritant,'' Mr. Laurin said, arguing that a separate Quebec would get a bigger say in Canadian monetary policy, assuming that Quebec keeps the Canadian dollar as its currency.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with an article about Quebec's economy misstated the Canadian province's gross domestic product in 1989. It was $129 billion, not $120 billion. A table with the article also misstated the percentage that Quebec contributes to Canada's gross domestic product. It was 23.6 percent, not 22 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''The economic viability of Quebec is no longer in doubt,'' said John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard economist. ''The political and cultural loss to Canadians would be irretrievable.'' (Howard Davies/Camera Press London); Jacques Parizeau, leader of the Parti Quebecois and a separatist, acknowledges that a breakaway Quebec could have difficulty without the good will of the United States and Ontario (Reuters); graph outlines gross domestic product of Quebec, 1989 (Source: DRI/McGraw-Hill); table outlines Quebec's contribution to Canadian economy (Source: DRI/McGraw-Hill); map of Canada showing location of Quebec (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (97%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; GALBRAITH, JOHN KENNETH JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH (70%); 



636 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 1, Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1966 words

HEADLINE: Island Feeling Effects of Slump In City Economy

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

 BODY:
AS New York City's financial problems deepen, Long Island, an important source of labor for the city and a major market for its products, is beginning to feel the effects.
Cutbacks in financial services and related industries have curtailed spending on the Island, contributing to a sharp decline in the growth of retail sales and softenings in the residential and commercial real-estate markets, business leaders, planners and economists say.
New York City's shortfall in tax revenues, budget deficits and impending service cuts are raising doubts in the minds of some Long Islanders about the future of the city's financial affairs.
''When New York City is in trouble, all attention focuses on the city, if for no other reason than that there are so many Long Islanders working there,'' said Arthur J. Kremer, a former Assemblyman and a partner in the law firm of Rivkin, Radler, Bayh, Hart & Kremer of Uniondale. ''The service industry in the city is turning, and Long Island is strongly impacted by it.'' 
No one has estimated how many of the 29,000 financial-services workers who have lost their jobs since the October 1987 stock-market crash live on the Island. Nor is anyone estimating how many commuters have had their bonuses cut or been otherwise affected by the slowdown. Experts agreed that both groups were well represented among Nassau and Suffolk residents.
 
Shrinking but Prosperous
Although the 20 percent of Long Island workers who commute to Manhattan represent a shrinking part of Long Island's work force, the number has remained at 200,000 for 10 years. And their jobs are among the higher paying. Nearly 4 in 10 are executives or professionals, according to the Census.
The commuters wield 30 percent of the purchasing power on Long Island, and their losses in income have a greater effect proportionally.
''The impact,'' said Thomas Conoscenti, program director of the management department at Polytechnic University in Farmingdale, ''really has come forth in the last year or so in terms of the disposable income declining.
''Instead of making $100,000 a year, people in the financial markets are making, say, $60,000. Their income was reduced by $40,000. So their proportionate expenditure patterns are going to be reduced. That gets reflected in retail sales, which are reflected in sales-tax revenue.''
The effect on retail sales is not directly measurable. But leading retailers say it is unmistakable, especially for luxuries.
 
Declining Sales Growth
''A lot of our customers, especially those who spend significant money, were involved in Wall Street and certainly still are,'' said Alan Fortunoff, president of the Fortunoff stores in Westbury, probably best known for the sale of jewelry. ''The significant amount of people who lost their jobs has had an effect. There's no question about it.''
Commuters' loss of purchasing power is a major factor in sharply declining sales growth in the last year, said Pearl Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Retail sales of $25.4 billion last year represented an increase of 2.2 percent over 1988, when sales increased 8.2 percent over 1987.
For big-ticket items, the most sensitive indicator of spending among upper-income groups, the fall-off was more dramatic. Sales grew 2.5 percent between 1988 and 1989, down from 18.6 percent the year before.
Beyond the effect on retail sales, ''financial services is an important specialty in the city and the region, and since these people earn so much there has been a big spillover effect,'' said Matthew P. Drennan, professor of economics and director of the public administration program at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. ''Real estate, both residential and commercial, has felt the effects of the layoffs on Wall Street.''
 
Changes in Second Homes
The market for second homes on the East End ''has kind of dried up, mostly because the extra money isn't there,'' said Justine Aleschus, owner of Aleschus Realty in Ronkonkoma.
''If they're not making the money, they don't even need the tax deduction from a second home,'' the agent said.
Neil B. Sweig, a senior analyst with a Manhattan brokerage company who has spent summers on the East End for 10 years, cited as an example a couple living in Manhattan and working in the securities industry who had changed their plans to buy a home in the Hamptons.
''The prices have come way down,'' he said. ''They could have gotten a mortgage. But their own incomes were just insecure enough for them not to go through with it.''
Insecurity in his business, Mr. Sweig said, is at its highest level in years, prompting some of his colleagues to choose an East End vacation rather than one farther from home and work.
Partly as a result, said Irene D'Agostino, president of the Montauk Chamber of Commerce and the owner of Martha Greene Real Estate, summer rentals in the Hamptons have improved this year. But home buying, she said, is down.
 
Office Building Boom in 80's
Commercial real estate on the Island has also been affected. Much of the increase in office construction in the 1980's, when nearly 10 million square feet of office space was built on the Island, was fueled by the expansion of bank back-office operations. But that kind of activity has slowed.
''Banks who are not going to come here to increase their back-office space because their business is in a downturn - that will definitely have an impact,'' said Joseph A. Logano, senior vice president at Cushman & Wakefield and branch manager of the realty company's Uniondale office.
Financial-services companies have also vacated large blocks of space in Manhattan. And while Long Island buildings do not always compete for the same tenants that would occupy these Manhattan buildings, vacancy rates on the Island are mirroring the rise in the city.
''Some of the banks giving up space and subleasing space doesn't help, certainly,'' Mr. Logano said.
Cutbacks by Manhattan-based financial-services companies contributed to the slowing of commercial real estate on Long Island, said Joel Bergstein, director of marketing at P. J. R. Construction Corporation in Brooklyn.In one of the largest real-estate transactions of the 1980's, principals of P. J. R., under the name Atria West Associates, sold the Atria West Building on Stewart Avenue in Garden City to Chase Manhattan Bank for $33 million.
''You had Manny Hanny, you had Chase and you had Dime out here,'' he said. ''But banks have had their own headaches lately.''
Even more important than banks to the real-estate market, Mr. Bergstein said, have been cutbacks in another financial-services industry, insurance.
 
A Building Half Occupied
The volume of commercial real-estate deals ''has diminished significantly,'' Mr. Bergstein said. ''There are deals, but there aren't the quantity of deals there were last year at this time. The mood has not shaken everyone but made them take a breath.''
Commercial vacancy is at an all-time high on Long Island, having risen to 16.6 percent for the first quarter of 1990 from 12.5 percent in 1988, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Vacancy in Melville, which has Long Island's greatest concentration of office space, is at 22.4 percent, partly because of the 267,000-square-foot Norstar Bank Building completed last July.
The building, dubbed the ''new Taj Mahal,'' Mr. Conoscenti of Polytechnic University said, is on one of the most visible sites on the Island, at the northwest corner of Route 110 on the Long Island Expressway. It has become perhaps the most prominent symbol of how the commercial real-estate market is faring.
Although the building was completed nearly a year ago, Norstar, which uses half the structure for its regional headquarters, has attracted only one tenant, which occupies 10,000 square feet. The rest of the building is vacant, said Valery Locascio, market research supervisor for Cushman & Wakefield, agent for the building.
''They were interested in building a corporate headquarters that had an image, and that building has an image,'' Mr. Conoscenti said. ''They could have built it anyplace; they probably would have been better off building it someplace else. But they wanted to have that exposure on that corner so people driving down the Long Island Expressway would say, 'There's Norstar Bank.' In order to do that they had to build a building of a certain size. Now they're stuck.''
 
'Sailed Right Through'
In the 1970's, before the building boom that culminated in the construction of Norstar's headquarters, Long Island's economy was less developed and therefore it was affected less by New York City's fiscal crisis of that period, some say.
''From 1945,' said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, ''Long Island has had the dubious distinction of being referred to as recession-proof. That was actually incorrect but, by and large, statistically that was true. When the city and the state went through their first fiscal crises, Long Island sailed right through as though it wasn't part of the New York scene.''
In 1975, Mr. Kremer said, a 1 percent to 2 percent increase in employment on Long Island ''was generated primarily by businesses that decided to come out from the city.''
This time, however, employment on the Island is not benefitting from the city's troubles, said Professor Drennan of N.Y.U. Although employment on Long Island grew an average 4 percent annually from 1982 to 1987, it grew by only 1.2 percent from September 1987, the month before the stock-market crash, to September 1988, he said.
And the next year employment declined by 0.3 percent.
 
Bailing Out the City
Also declining is the growth in sales-tax revenue. Traditionally increasing by about 10 percent a year, receipts are now growing at perhaps half that rate, nearing the rate of inflation.
''Sales taxes is where New York City is hurting,'' said Mr. Kremer, the former Assemblyman. ''As a result of New York City needing the money, Long Island will wind up getting the same sales-tax increases. The city's fiscal needs spill over onto Long Island, and Long Islanders wind up paying, indirectly or directly, to bail out the city.''
Michael LoGrande, executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island and a former Suffolk County Executive, said Long Island's ability to borrow money could be affected by New York City's declining bonding strength.
''Whenever New York City has financial problems, the entire state has problems because of bonding capacity,'' he said. ''New York City leads the way with respect to bond ratings.''
Earlier this month, a major credit agency, Moody's Investors Services, lowered the state's long-term credit rating one notch, despite the adoption of a budget that the state deemed solid. According to convention, localities' bond ratings may not exceed those of the state.
 
A Shared Fate
Despite the assertions of some Long Islanders that the Island has come a long way toward its goal of economic independence from New York City, some economic forecasts, especially those produced by organizations based in Manhattan, stress the interdependence of two areas.
A December 1988 draft of a forecast package produced by the Regional Plan Association and released in edited form this year tied the Island's fate to the city's in an least two areas, transportation and housing.
The result of commuting difficulties, the study said, ''was to depress projected employment in New York City and on Long Island in favor of the mid-Hudson and New Jersey.'' And the impact of unaffordable housing was one ''favoring New Jersey and the mid-Hudson at the expense of Long Island and New York City.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LICF (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RIVKIN RADLER LLP (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SALES TAX (76%); RETAILERS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LAWYERS (66%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); 

PERSON: LUTZ, PHILLIP



637 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Oakwood

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
A stroll down tree-lined Oak Avenue is all a visitor needs to see how Oakwood got its name. But some residents say the name could also apply to the town's solid family life; three and four generations of some families live on the same streets. The Oakwood Girls, a group of 20 women who grew up in the Staten Island community and have known each other for more than 50 years, meet monthly.
''Everyone is related to everyone else,'' said the Rev. Thomas Bergin, principal of Monsignor Farrell High School in Oakwood and a 29-year resident of the town. ''Brothers and sisters buy homes next to each other. Children take over their parents' homes when the parents move to retirement communities or die. Many Oakwood boys marry the girl next door.''
''It's a place where you can knock on a neighbor's door anytime, day or night, and ask for a box of pasta,'' said Frances Sisto, chairwoman of the Oakwood Civic Association, a community group. Mrs. Sisto lives in the house her husband's late grandfather once owned, next door to her in-laws' house, on Amherst Avenue. 
The first section of the two-square-mile community to be settled was the Fox Beach area, established in 1912 by Emiel R. Fox, inventor of the Fox Police Lock, an antiburglary device. At the time, he built 12 bungalows and sold or rented them to wealthy New York City residents for summer homes. By 1930, he had created a swimming beach on Lower New York Bay, built a pier that extended 250 feet into the water, several hundred bungalows, a hotel and a dance pavilion.
Then a fire consumed more than 100 bungalows and the pier, bankrupting him. The beach has since eroded and is unusable.
Many Fox bungalows remain on Kissam Avenue, Fox Lane, Foxbeach Avenue and Tarlton Street, near the beach. During the Depression, some bungalows were winterized and made permanent residences. Others became permanent homes after World War II, when returning servicemen sought inexpensive houses. Today, winterized one- to two-bedroom bungalows on lots of 40 by 80 feet sell for $80,000 to $100,000.
Most of Oakwood's housing stock was built between 1955 and 1975. It consists mainly of small single-family homes and duplexes - two-family houses in which each unit is owned separately - with neat lawns.
Raymond A. Volmaro, a local realtor, said most one-families sell for $180,000 to $250,000 and duplex units sell for $115,000 to $135,000. The most expensive homes are on Tysens Lane and Currie Avenue, where some four-bedroom brick colonials go for up to $350,000.
There are fewer than two dozen town-house condominiums. Most are on Guyon Avenue and sell for about $170,000, according to Mr. Volmaro. The only large apartment complex is the 176-unit Carolina Gardens, on Hylan Boulevard and Tysens Lane, completed in 1950 for returning servicemen. Rents range from $425 for a one-bedroom to $550 for a two-bedroom. Oakwood has fewer than a dozen stores, among them a bagel bakery, a newsdealer, a dry cleaner, a video store and several inexpensive eating places. They are clustered near the Staten Island Rapid Transit station on Guyon Avenue. Most residents shop at supermarkets at the Masters Shopping Mall in neighboring New Dorp or in the Staten Island Mall, four miles away.
Among the popular restaurants in Oakwood are Canlon's Oak Room, which has a continental menu, and La Fontana, with offerings from both the northern and southern Italian traditions.
Oakwood has two Catholic churches, two protestant churches and one synagogue. It is also home to the Frederick Douglass Memorial Park, a cemetery opened exclusively for blacks in 1935, named after a 19th-century black abolitionist.
The public schools servicing Oakwood are P.S. 50, I.S. 24, and New Dorp High School. According to Deputy School Superintendent Christy Cugini of District 31, those schools consistently score among the top 25 percent of New York City schools in standardized reading and mathematics tests.
Most Oakwood students go on to New Dorp High School in neighboring New Dorp. It has one of the lowest dropout rates in New York State - 4.7 percent. Eighty-seven percent of its graduates go on to higher education, according to the principal, Renato L. DeMaria. The school has 34 athletic teams. This year, its girls' soccer and tennis teams were Public School Athletic League champions and its boys' baseball team made the P.S.A.L. semifinals.
Computers are introduced in kindergarten. By sixth grade, the students are programming and word processing. Computers are integrated into all phases of the school's program, including drawing, science, English and even auto shop.
At least a third of the staff, including Mr. DeMaria, are alumni of the high school. ''That means that we are committed to our community and our students, not only professionally, but also emotionally,'' said Mr. DeMaria.
Besides academics, the school stresses racial harmony. Its International Club, which has 180 members and is the school's largest club, organizes a theater and food festival each March to celebrate the ethnic diversity of the student body - 73 percent white (mostly Italian-American), 18 percent black and 9 percent Hispanic and Asian. All leftover food is donated to Project Hospitality, to feed homeless families.
Also in Oakwood is the 1,148-student Monsignor Farrell High School, the largest all-boys Roman Catholic school in New York City. According to Father Bergin, the school consistently wins the largest number of Regents Scholarships in New York City. (This year's graduating class won 70.) The school is also known as a sports powerhouse, having won many championships in football, baseball, track and field, golf, bowling, soccer and tennis.
The Oakwood schools attracted Margaret and Leonard DiBitetto to the town from Flatbush in 1987. ''We investigated the schools, the shopping and looked at the people and felt this was a good place to raise our children,'' said Mrs. DiBitetto. ''And we've been very warmly received by the people here. Everyone is hard-working and dedicated to preserving their area.''
Mrs. Dibitetto and several of her neighbors are running an informal campaign to encourage their children - she has two: Kathryn, 7, and Lisa, 3 - to pick up any litter they see on the streets. ''Just because Staten Island has a large garbage dump, that doesn't mean our area has to look like one,'' she said.
Two issues that residents complain about are flooding and traffic. ''When I was a child, we used to know it was Sunday, because a few cars passed,'' said Marie Cotter, 70 years old. ''Now the roads are full.''
During the recent rains, many bungalows near the beach were flooded. The backyard of one of them, on Tarlton Street, looked like a rice paddy.
''If you think the flooding is bad today,'' said Mr. Volmaro, ''you should have been here in 1950 and 1953. The floods lifted some of the bungalows off their foundations and they were just floating around.''
The borough has since created a sand embankment along the beach front, to keep the floodwaters back, and has built a floodgate across a creek near the shore.
Oakwood residents jealously guard the wetlands, which comprise close to one third of the community. In 1983, when a Brooklyn developer sought to build 450 town houses on wetlands near Kissam Avenue, the Oakwood Civic Association raised $12,000 and successfully fought a court battle against the project. And in June 1988, when Project Hospitality applied for permits to build housing for homeless families on a wetlands tract, community residents swamped a meeting of Community Board 3 to protest. The applications were denied.
Today, the residents are fighting a proposal to build a yeshiva on six acres of wetlands. The matter is before the state's Fresh Water Wetlands Appeal Board.
''We have bad drainage problems already, and any more building on the wetlands will only make matters worse,'' said Mrs. Sisto of the civic association.
Although there are no parks in Oakwood, the town abuts the Great Kills Park, which has a marina, picnic areas and jogging trails. The residents also use the athletic fields in the Miller Field complex in neighboring New Dorp.
''Stability in the face of overwhelming change,'' is the way Ms. Cotter describes Oakwood.
 
Gazetteer
 
Population: 7,500 (1990 estimate).
 
Median household income: $45,000 (1990 estimate).
 
Median price of single-family house: $225,000.
 
Median price of two-bedroom condominium: $170,000.
 
Median two-bedroom rent: $550.
 
Government: Councilman Fred Cerullo, Republican.
 
Distance from midtown Manhattan: 13 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation to midtown: Transit Authority X9, X11, X13 and X15 express buses and private vans, $3.50 each way, 30 minutes; Staten Island Rapid Transit train to St. George, $1.15 each way for 20-minute ride, ferry, 25 cents round trip, and subway to midtown, $1.15 each way.
Explorer's Monument: A stone slab at the Amundsen Circle, at the intersection of two major roads - Guyon Avenue and Amboy Road - honors Capt. Roald Amundsen. He was the Norwegian explorer who first negotiated the Northwest Passage (1903-6) and who flew over the North Pole by dirigible in 1928. Although Oakwood is now predominantly Italian, most residents were of Norwegian ancestry when the monument was erected in 1933.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homes on Amherst Avenue; Douglass Memorial Park, a cemetary named after the black olitionist. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times); Map of Oakwood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;STATEN ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); BEACHES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); WOMEN (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); WORLD WAR II (61%); 

PERSON: CHESLOW, JERRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 



638 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 3, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT Q&A: SUSAN MERROW;
PROTECTING THE WORLD'S 'SPECIAL PLACES'

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
SUSAN MERROW, of Colchester, was recently elected president of the Sierra Club, one of the nation's oldest and largest environmental groups. Founded by John Muir in 1898, the club has grown to 560,000 members from 182,000 in 1981.
Ms. Merrow, 43 years old, joined the club in 1972 and worked her way up through the ranks until she ran for the board in 1984. She is a part-time lobbyist for the Connecticut Clean Water Coalition and a part-time administrator for Common Cause in Connecticut. She was elected to a one-year term as Sierra Club president in May and will be on the road at least 25 weekends in the coming year, she said, dividing her time between the club's national office in San Francisco and various regional meetings.
In an interview at the Connecticut Environmental Center in Hartford, Ms. Merrow discussed some of the challenges facing the club. Here are some excerpts from the conversation. 
Q. If we have a cool summer, with no syringes on the beach or oil spills in Alaska, can you maintain the current interest in the environment?
A. Some of it will wane, but we have anticipated it. Even after the first Earth Day, not all those people stuck around, but some of them did. There are plenty of issues to go around, and a lot of people are going to stick with it.
Q. The Sierra Club has had a reputation as a club for the upper class. Is that going to continue to be the case?
A. In the early part of its history, the Sierra Club membership recruitment was largely done person to person, so highly literate hikers recruited highly literate hikers. But at the same time James Watt came along, the Sierra Club and a lot of other not-for-profit organizations got a court ruling that allowed them to mail at a lower bulk rate. So more of our members today are recruited by mail. We don't have a real clear sense of where that's taking us demographically.
I suspect most Sierra Club people are upper class, fairly well educated. But in the long run, we're waking up to the fact that if we want to be relevant to the 21st century, this cannot continue to be a lily-white organization. So there are discussions going on now about minorities and how to meet the needs of the ethnic communities, to try to accommodate their perspectives and their ideas.
Q. Was there any moment of environmental epiphany for you?
A. I spent every summer when I was growing up with my grandmother on the coast of Maine, a little place on the St. George Peninsula. I suppose I had a feeling then, and still have a feeling, there are some special places in the world, some special, natural places, that are almost sacred, they shouldn't be changed, that humans cannot improve on, they can only probably harm.
So I suppose I was sort of ripe for environmental issues. And then around the first Earth Day in 1970 I became aware of the message that these special places are finite, that species are becoming extinct. I woke up to the fact that we had to do something, although when I first joined I had no notion that I would get personally involved. I thought I would make my yearly donation, and then I got a postcard inviting me to a meeting, and the next meeting I made the cookies, and I kept getting drawn further in. I've always said there's nothing you can't do in the Sierra Club if you never say no.
Q. What do you hope to accomplish in your one-year term?
A. One thing that I've been involved with in the last year that is just coming to fruition is that the Sierra Club has been devoting more and more of its resources into state-level lobbying. Most chapters have some presence at their state capitol, but it's been sort of catch as catch can. But the Sierra Club is responding to the idea that if you're going to be a real player, you have to be an insider at the state capitol.
The action on environmental issues is shifting to the state, and if you can put together environmental victories in a few key legislatures you can roll environmental legislation across the country. As an example, California passed some tough laws on tailpipe emissions, and now the Council of Northeast Governors has passed the same restrictions. We've put about $370,000 into a fund for state-level lobbying.
Q. When George Bush campaigned, he said he would be the environmental President. Has that happened?
A. The jury is still seriously out on that. I think he discovered the promises were a lot easier to make than to keep. The first disappointment was the Clean Air Act. It didn't keep his promises, particularly in the area of automobiles. Recently he spoke against helping other countries curb their use of chlorofluorocarbons, which damage the earth's ozone layer, and he's been pretty wishy-washy on global warming. There was a wonderful cartoon around about Earth Day that showed a couple of protesters holding up signs that said ''Save the Earth,'' and someone that looked like George Bush holding up a sign that said, ''Seriously Consider Further Study.'' We wish he would move more decisively.
Q. With so many states facing an economic slowdown, are environmental initiatives going to suffer?
A. There are actually a number of things that can be done that have no fiscal impact. Pollution prevention is sort of the wave of the future. After spending years figuring out what to do with toxic and hazardous materials that come out of the end of the pipeline we realize we have to have people go around to the front door of the factory and figure out how to reduce what's going in.
Q. What was the biggest environmental achievement of the 1990 Connecticut legislature?
A. The bill that passed that, for the first time, gives us dedicated funds for the environment. The fees raised in that bill will allow the State Department of Environmental Protection to keep 83 positions that would have been cut, but more important it set up a task force that will look at long-term, stable sources of funding for environmental protection.
The business community, which will pay many of those fees, was actually cautiously cooperative with that bill. In the long run, what the positions are going to do is help get rid of some of the permit backlogs. If you are a business applying for a permit and it takes two years to get it, that's just poor economics.
Q. What was your biggest disappointment of the session?
A. We were disappointed that the chlorofluorocarbon bill failed. It was sort of an innocent bystander that became a victim of the Republican budget amendments. They tried to amend their budget onto the bill, as sort of a ploy to get it raised and onto the floor. And it never came back. It was sacrificed to the budget process.
But other than that it was a fascinating session. We finally got a bill prohibiting sewage dumping from boats. Three years ago that bill started out giving the commissioner authority to prohibit it in sensitive zones, but the regulated community, which is the marinas, wanted those no-discharge zones named.
So we named eight very specific, highly vulnerable areas where marinas are close to shellfish beds. We fought about that last year, and everyone seemed on board, but at the last minute the bill died.
This year the bill came along, came through the Judiciary Committee, and finally got to the floor, and legislators who in the past were worried about their marina operators didn't want to go home this year without a no-discharge area in their town. It was amended to include, besides the eight areas, no-discharge areas in Stratford, in New London, along the Connecticut River and so on.
Q. What can you do to overcome the frustration of people who see it as impossible to individually address overwhelming international environmental problems, like global warming?
A. The message around Earth Day 20 was, ''you can make a difference.'' You can separate the trash, you can car pool, and that's important even if only to cheer yourself up.
But the most important thing we have to do, quick, is empower these people in the political process. When I got involved in 1972, it took me until 1976 to discover grass-roots lobbying. We worked on the Bottle Bill in 1976 and 1977, which taught us how to make public policy.
It took us until 1980 to discover electoral politics. That was the year we worked on the campaign of Mary Mushinsky from Wallingford, who is now the House chairwoman of the Environment Committee. She had a four-way primary, and we learned about phone banking, about door to door, about getting out the vote.
We can't wait 10 years for the next crop of activists to learn those skills. The 20th anniversary of Earth Day brought us a lot of support. A lot of the born-again environmentalists will drop away, but a lot of the people like Mary Mushinsky and Senator John Atkin from Norwalk and I were the product of the first Earth Day, and a lot of the leaders of tomorrow are in this new crop, and they're here to stay.
Q. You've got a reputation as being soft spoken. Can you get things done for the environment without being more aggressive?
A. My job is not to push my compatriots around. My job is not to make the decisions. It's to see good decisions get made. People have to feel they own the agenda, and you don't get that by pushing them around.
But when we need to, we push around our opponents. I don't get mad easily. Sometimes it takes me until the next day to get mad about something. But there's a place for deliberate thinkers. There are enough people around who get mad quick, but if you take the time to think sometimes you can come up with a solution more people can live with.''

GRAPHIC: PHoto; Susan Merrow, the new president of the Sierra Club (Steve Miller for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: PERSON-TO-PERSON COMMUNICATIONS INC (66%); SIERRA CLUB (94%); COMMON CAUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BEACHES (76%); EARTH DAY (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); OIL SPILLS (52%); ETHNICITY (50%); 

PERSON: MERROW, SUSAN; HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



639 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 21, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Adoption Of Cats Increasing

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
CATS are becoming the pet of choice on Long Island. Because of economics, convenience and housing regulations, officials of the Island's pet adoption centers say, the percentage of cat adoptions is rising.
At the North Shore Animal League, a nonprofit adoption center in Port Washington, cat adoptions increased from 39 percent of total pet adoptions in 1985 to 44 percent in 1989. The numbers are rising steadily, and cat adoption is definitely a trend, said Marge Stein, manager of adoption services. The reason is mainly one of economics, she said. ''In the majority of families on the Island today, both parents are working, and taking care of a kitten or cat is a lot easier than a dog or puppy,'' Ms. Stein said. ''There's no walking or training, and many dog lovers have become cat converts.'' 
The image of cats has changed in recent years, said Deborah Glasco, shelter manager of Bide-a-Wee in Wantagh, a nonprofit animal shelter and adoption center. (Other Bide-A-Wee shelters are in Westhampton and Manhattan).
Years ago, people were afraid of cats and associated them with strays, she said, adding: ''But cats are excellent pets. They are lovable, affectionate and easier pets than dogs when no one is home all day.''
 
More Adaptable
Adoptions of cats and kittens is rising at Bide-a-Wee, Ms. Glasco said. In March 1989, 59 dogs and puppies were adopted and 35 cats and kittens. This past March, 61 canines were adopted and 41 felines, showing a more significant rise in cats and kittens.
Unlike dogs, cats do not require licenses in New York State, so comparative numbers on pet ownership are not available. But according to Andrew Hajdu, a veterinarian at the East Norwich Veterinarian Clinic, cats have increased steadily over the past 10 years, going from one-third to one-half of the clinic's practice.
''My idea why cats have become more popular is that they are easier, neater and cleaner,'' Dr. Hajdu said. ''They require less training and time, eat less and are less expensive to maintain. Cats have gotten a raw deal as being aloof, but most are affectionate and provide the human bond that people want in a pet.''
 
Taking More Than One
Aside from their ease, cats have become more popular because of housing restrictions for pets, Ms. Stein said. Many landlords say no to dogs, but are more lenient toward cats because they are clean and quiet animals, she said.
The rise in cat adoptions can also be attributed to multi-cat households, Ms. Stein said, adding that many cat owners take more than one cat to keep each other company.
The kitten season is just starting, and runs from June through November, Ms. Stein said. These are the months when more kittens are born than any other time of the year.
An excess of unadopted kittens is a serious problem on Long Island, said Ann Sergio, a pet consultant and retired American Kennel Club dog judge. Too many people are not educated about the importance of neutering or spaying their cats, she said, adding that a pet should not be let outside until it is neutered or spayed, at about six months.
 
Free Spaying
Both the North Shore Animal League and Bide-a-Wee provide free neutering and spaying for all adopted animals. But overpopulation persists, said Ms. Stein, and there are still many unwanted animals on Long Island.
Some shelters destroy unwanted animals or send them to adoption centers like North Shore Animal League or Bide-a-Wee, whose policy is to keep unadopted animals until homes are found for them.
North Shore has space for about 400 animals, and there is always a waiting list for unadopted or unwanted pets, Ms. Stein said.
One of the worst problems, Mrs. Sergio said, is antisocial behavior in dogs who are dropped off at shelters. They have been left alone too much, have not become socialized and many have become biters, she said.
 
Rabies on the Rise
''Abandonment of adult cats because of antisocial behavior,'' Mrs. Sergio said, ''is not as big a problem as with adult dogs. This is because an antisocial cat will be content to sit alone on a windowsill, while an antisocial dog might bite a child.
''We have become a society in which people don't have time for dogs. Young couples are working and often like to go away for weekends. Older couples with grown kids are going back to work, and people who are gone all day should not have dogs.
''Cats don't need as much socializing as dogs, and fit into situations that dogs don't.''
But cats are not without problems, Dr. Hajdu said. Cat rabies has become a growing problem along the East Coast, he said, adding that many people do not vaccinate their cats and, because they are outside so much, are prone to pick up rabies.
Increasing cases of cat rabies have been reported in New Jersey, Dr. Hajdu said. Although the problem has not yet reached Long Island, it is expected to in the future.
Cats also carry toxoplasmosis, a protozoa disease of the intestines, which can be transmitted to humans through stools, Dr. Hajdu said.
Although treatable and curable, toxoplasmosis is most dangerous for pregnant women, who should not clean a cat's litter box, he said. This is because the eggs can be released into the air from the litter box and inhaled by a human.
Dogs can also get toxoplasmosis, but do not spread the disease.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH SHORE ANIMAL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: CATS; LIFE STYLES CATS (97%); PETS (92%); DOGS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ANIMAL WELFARE (90%); VETERINARY SERVICES (79%); FAMILY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); TRENDS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ADOPTION (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA MARGE STEIN (91%); ANDREW HAJDU (68%); ANN SERGIO (61%); 



640 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: THE BROWN-RICING OF AMERICA

BYLINE: By LAURA SHAPIRO; Laura Shapiro, the author of ''Perfection Salad: Women and Cooking at the Turn of the Century,'' writes about food, books and dance for Newsweek.

 BODY:

APPETITE FOR CHANGE %How the Counterculture Took On the Food Industry, 1966-1988.
By Warren J. Belasco.
311 pp. New York: Pantheon Books. $24.95.
Granola, as Warren J. Belasco points out in ''Appetite for Change,'' used to be good for you. It was created to be a vegetarian health food in the 19th century, hippies spooned it up in the 1960's and the food industry got hold of it in the 70's. But that first wave of cereals with names evoking sunrise over the cow pasture didn't do very well in the supermarket. Kids didn't like the stuff, and grown-ups were still eating doughnuts for breakfast. By the 80's, a new crop of fitness cereals for adults would be flourishing, but in the meantime the industry took another look at granola - and came up with granola bars. Lavished with chocolate and peanut butter, granola was a hit. Americans who couldn't face a healthful breakfast welcomed a healthful snack, or at least a snack with a healthful image, especially if all that virtue tasted a lot like a candy bar. In 1986 granola bars brought in over $450 million. 
Mr. Belasco, the author of ''Americans on the Road: From Autocamp to Motel, 1910-1945,'' traces the rise and fall of what he calls the ''countercuisine'' from its beginnings in the 60's to the culinary confusions of today. The countercuisine - chiefly fruits and vegetables, unprocessed foods, little or no meat, and grains in huge quantities - didn't really get rolling until the late 60's and early 70's, when political activism began splintering into ecology, feminism, small farming, arts and crafts and other modes of conscientious self-expression. Food came to the forefront relatively late; as Mr. Belasco remarks, even in 1968 the underground press was printing a recipe for ''bologna knish enchiladas'' - white bread and bologna wrapped around eggs and onions, with canned cheddar cheese soup over all. But bologna didn't last long. In 1969 Frances Moore Lappe began her research into the political and economic implications of eating meat, and her ''Diet for a Small Planet'' (1971) became an enormously influential guide to new ways of thinking about food. Soon a torrent of ethical cookbooks appeared, with recipes printed in flowing script and much warmhearted advice about sound living and complementary proteins. (''These books were fun!'' Mr. Belasco writes, comparing them with the drab vegetarian guides of the past; has he ever tried to follow a recipe written in script?) As yogurt and brown rice began making minor forays into mainstream eating habits, they were accompanied by a critique of the food industry that made some of its giants nervous. ''Preservative'' became a bad word, ''pesticide'' followed; and the industry geared up for a counterattack. In concert with the nutritionists and academic researchers it supported financially, the industry put forth an argument still heard today: the chemicals used on produce and in packaged foods are not only safe, they're safer than the chemicals occurring naturally in foods. Moreover, additives and preservatives protect us against everything from botulism to boredom. ''Almost as dangerous as Mother Nature was the human mother,'' Mr. Belasco adds. ''Home-canned beans were potentially more deadly than anything concocted by Del Monte; moldy home-baked brown bread could not compare in safety with store-bought, plastic-wrapped, artificially preserved white.''
But the industry didn't just argue, it went into action. If people were entranced by so-called natural food, they would get natural food, and they'd get it from the same food companies that brought them Twinkies and Oreos. Rather than investigate ways to reduce chemical use in their products, companies concentrated on new slogans, new advertisements and new packages. When consumers proved delighted at the chance to buy ''lite,'' ''all-natural'' versions of the same food they had been eating for years, even when little had changed but the labels, the battle was over.
Mr. Belasco tells a far more comprehensive and complex story than this recap suggests; indeed, one of the problems with this useful book is that it gropes in many more directions than any single writer or reader could possibly follow. At the same time, the book deals only sketchily with the subject at the heart of Mr. Belasco's argument: food and cooking. We never learn the details of what was in all those earthenware serving dishes; rather, he writes at length about the ''oppositional language'' and ''symbolic aspects'' of hippie food. His purpose may not be gastronomy per se, but to serve up the symbols without the reality makes a thin soup. Similarly, Mr. Belasco leaves out the people who cooked. With the exception of a few cursory portraits, this history is carried by disembodied ideas and influences, not by men and women. It seems a peculiar and misleading way to write about the counterculture, particularly since Mr. Belasco's sympathies are so clearly with the people he affectionately calls ''the freaks.'' Finally, Mr. Belasco's graceless writing style, dense and jaunty at the same time, makes ''Appetite for Change'' much harder to read than it should be. His story is important and his politics are refreshing, but every sentence needs a comb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: APPETITE FOR CHANGE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SNACK FOODS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (88%); BAKED GOODS (78%); NUTRITION (76%); WRITERS (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); ETHICS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (67%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (57%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, LAURA; BELASCO, WARREN J WARREN J BELASCO (94%); 



641 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: SOUTHWEST TO GET ECONOMIC BENEFITS IN SAVINGS BAILOUT

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
The Federal cleanup of the savings and loan disaster will result in a significant transfer of wealth from the Northeast and Middle West to Texas and other states in the Southwest, many economists and politicians have concluded.
As a consequence, they say, the economy in Texas and its neighboring states, where most of the cost of the savings and loan failures was incurred, will be stronger in the years ahead and the economy in most other states will be weaker.
This shift of resources reignites an old political controversy.
For years, Eastern and Northern lawmakers complained that their regions did not get their fair share of Federal money because of the prevalence of military installations in the South and West. The rapid growth of Government social programs in the 1970's went a long way toward correcting the balance, because the Northern industrial states are the main beneficiaries of Federal grants for the poor. 
 
Balance of Payments
''At just the time when we had got our balance of payments situation into a reasonable relationship, which is to say we do about as well as we could expect on Federal outlays, along comes this,'' said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat.
How much money will be shifted is difficult to estimate, but some experts have tried. For example, Prof. Edward W. Hill of Cleveland State University, who has been studying the situation for the last two years, has calculated that wealth will be transferred from 37 states and the District of Columbia to the 13 states where the savings and loan failures are concentrated.
The cost of the bailout to Connecticut residents, he figures, will be up to $1,237 a person and to New Yorkers up to $972. That is money that would have been available for investment in those states, creating more jobs and better business conditions. $4,774 per Texan The additional money flowing to Texas will amount to as much as $4,775 a resident, Professor Hill estimates.
Many economists do not accept Professor Hill's numbers or his methodology, but most subscribe to the thesis that the bailout will lead to a regional redistribution of wealth to one degree or another. Donald F. Kettl, a political scientist at Vanderbilt University, suggested that the shift would be as large as it was in the 1970's, when higher oil prices caused by the Arab boycott created large profits in Texas at the expense of Northern consumers.
Some experts, like Bernard L. Weinstein, director of the Center for Economic Development and Research at the University of North Texas, question even the premise.
''You're going to have to wait 20 years to see how the dust settles,'' Mr. Weinstein said. ''You're going to have to look at who ends up owning the assets. The ownership is going to shift outside of Texas and the Southwest because we don't have any money here to buy them.''
Lawmakers from the states who feel especially disadvantaged by the bailout program acknowledge that the Government has no alternative but to use general tax revenues collected in all the states to cover the depositors at the institutions that went under. But they suggest that to offset the situation, Congress should give special attention to their states when money is allocated for other programs.
 
Correcting the Balance
''It's hard within the system to right the balance,'' said Representative Jim Leach of Iowa, the second-ranking Republican on the House Banking Committee. ''But because of this enormous transfer of wealth, Congress ought to go out of its way in future programming to give breaks to the regions that are footing the bill for the Southwest.''
Representative Howard Wolpe, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, an organization of lawmakers from 18 states, said he and his colleagues were ''especially galled'' because they feel Texas and its neighboring states brought the savings and loan mess on themselves.
Most failures, their argument goes, occurred in states like Texas where the savings and loans were state-chartered and state-regulated, and the regulation was even more lax than it was in states where the institutions were subject to Federal supervision.
''This is not a natural disaster like a hurricane or an earthquake,'' Mr. Wolpe said in an interview. ''This is a man-made disaster.''
 
Healthier Institutions
Through the end of last year, no savings institutions in New England had failed, and relatively few had gone under in the other Northern and Eastern states.
On the other hand, the cost of rescuing depositors in Texas is expected to be five or six times greater than that in any other state. And when the cost in Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico and Arizona is added to the Texas total, it will account for the bulk of the Government's outlays.
The Government's cost will be high in California and Florida also, but those states are so populous that the outlays will be only a tiny fraction of the Federal taxes collected there.
In an interview this week, Representative Michael A. Andrews, a Texas Democrat who heads a caucus of lawmakers from Sunbelt states, acknowledged that Texas would get a big share of the bailout money at the expense of other states.
But he took issue with Mr. Wolpe and others who maintain that Texans should bear a bigger burden of the cost or that special benefits should accrue to Northern states to compensate them for their outlays for the savings and loan rescue.
 
'A National Problem'
''That's not the way this Government works,'' Mr. Andrews said. ''This is a national problem, and we've never played by those rules before.''
Because the deposits in the savings associations that collapsed were insured by the Federal Government, the Government, using general revenue, is obligated to make good on every dime. In some instances, the depositors are paid off directly. But normally, to save money, the Government takes over the repossessed property and other assets of the failed institutions, sells them for as much as possible and pays a fee to a healthy bank in the area to assume the deposits.
That has two effects in regional economic terms. It means that deposits stay in the locale of the institutions that failed and are more likely to be reinvested there. And it means that the empty office buildings, new houses and other structures built over the last decade with money supplied by the savings and loans that have failed will be on the market at a relatively low price for businesses that want to relocate there.
 
Infusions of Cash
Professor Hill, the Cleveland State economist, wrote in the May-June issue of Challenge magazine: ''Those states and regions with large numbers of problem thrifts will be receiving infusions of cash to support their assets and secure their liabilities. This injection of money will help hold off regional recessions, while other states and regions will be footing the bill.''
In one respect, that situation is offset by the fact that some deposits in the failed savings and loans were lured from out of state by the higher rates. But academic studies suggest that the average figure is probably less than 25 percent. In regional terms, the effect of the out-of-state deposits may be canceled out by the fact that some Northern savings associations failed because of unwise investments they made in the Southwest.
The residents of the Northeast are actually paying twice for the mistakes in the Southwest, in the view of Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts. First, Mr. Kerry says, the Northeasterners' tax money will finance the bailout. And second, he maintains, credit is tighter now in his region because regulators want to avoid the mistakes made in Texas.

GRAPHIC: Chart showing the losers and gainers in the Federal bailout of the savings and loan industry (source: Edward W. Hill, Cleveland State University) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LAW (51%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHWESTERN STATES (US); NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FEDERAL AID (US); BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; BANKRUPTCIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); BOYCOTTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); JOB CREATION (62%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (53%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 



642 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11

 
Two more earthquakes struck Iran, even as rescue workers continued searching through the rubble left by last week's tremblor. Officials now say 50,000 may have been killed, with 200,000 injured. Page A1

 
Iranian City, once a jewel, lies ruined and in agony A6

 
Soviet Jewish settlement will cease in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as a matter of policy, the Israeli Government announced, hoping to allay concerns that immigrants would flood the occupied territories. A1

 
The success of the Islamic Front in Algeria's first free elections since the country won independence from France in 1962 marks the beginning of what may be a long period of social unrest between secularists and fundamentalists. A1 
 
 
Foreign film markets are growing rapidly, tranforming the way Hollywood makes and distributes movies. Studios are increasingly concerned how films will play not only in Peoria but in Pisa, Perth and Prague. A1

 
News analysis: Canada's crisis has forced its leaders to ask whether constitutional strains with Quebec have pushed the country's unity beyond the point of no return. A3

 
The motto of the Quebec separatists whose drive for independence was dashed in a 1980 referendum has been revived now that the Meech Lake ac-cord has collapsed. ''Yes,'' a new generation is saying, ''at last.'' A3

 
Canada's Finance Minister appeals for calm D1

 
News analysis: Mikhail Gorbachev has struggled to recast the Communist Party as a force to lead the Soviet Union into the future. But on the eve of a party congress, his vision seems more improbable than ever. A10

 
Factions of the Solidarity movement are near a final split, as 63 party leaders called for the dissolution of the Civic Committee, the group formed by Lech Walesa as the political soul of the movement. A10

 
The European Community's meeting in Dublin will underline Margaret Thatcher's continued skepticism of the prospects of economic or political union, even as Chancellor Helmut Kohl and President Franc,ois Mitterrand press ahead. A10

 
Soviet Jews in East Berlin tell of flight from bias
 A10

 
Kidnappings unnerve Rio's business leaders A9

 
Napo Journal: Graceful poverty in Thailand's driest corner A4

 
National A12-15, B8

 
The Federal savings and loan bailout will result in a significant transfer of wealth from the Northeast and Middle West to the Southwest, many economists and polticians say. A1

 
The nation's Catholic politicians have had to reassert the line between religious identity and public duties after John Cardinal O'Connor raised the specter of excommunication for those who support abortion rights. A1

 
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops gathered in California this weekend for reflection and recreation, but the real world kept intruding with a myriad of demonstrations. A13

 
The speech by the Health Secretary, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, before the closing session of the Sixth International Conference on AIDS was drowned out by a roar of shouts, whistles and air horn blasts. A12

 
The House vote on flag burning has sent Representatives who opposed the constitutional amendment, like Peter Hoagland of Nebraska, back home to the prickly receptions of their constituents. A12

 
Washington Talk: The tough finale this week of the Supreme Court's 1989-90 term will include some of its most important decisions. A12

 
Washington at Work: Senator Warren B. Rudman A14

 
The strain of small town government in an increasingly complex political world has undermined the tradition of private citizens overseeing municipalities in their spare time. A15

 
Nelson Mandela's trip to Washington will generate a warm welcome, but President Bush and other officials will politely resist his request to increase sanctions against the South African Government. B8

 
American support for Jonas Savimbi and his Unita rebels in Angola, one of President Bush's most cherished African policies, was condemned by Nelson Mandela on the eve of his meeting with the President. B8

 
Regional B1-7

 
Would a banker jump a turnstile? Millions of people are riding the subways in New York City without paying and are justifying it by saying they are fed up with long lines and thieves who jam turnstiles and steal tokens. A1

 
Survivors of the crash of Flight 52 in Cove Neck, L.I., five months ago have struggled to return to normalcy in spite of physical and psychological turmoil. B1

 
Mathematics education in New York would be completely revamped under a plan to be announced today by the city's Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez. B1

 
CUNY alumni take lead in landing top corporate jobs B3

 
A small lace-manufacturing plant in Connecticut will close this week, undone by changes in the market and the lack of new apprentices willing to learn the highly specialized skill of making lace cloth. B1
 
The Gay and Lesbian Pride March, a parade distinguished by its diversity and its lack of marching bands, surged down a lavender-striped Fifth Avenue. The march, the 21st annual, was the largest so far. B1

 
A victim of the Zodiac gunman died, making the gunman responsible for a homicide for the first time, the police said. The victim, Joseph Proce, 78, was shot on May 31 in the Woodhaven section of Queens. B3

 
Two young bystanders were shot, one fatally, after a dispute between two young men and clerks in a Flatbush Avenue jewelry store. B3

 
Deliberations expected to start in the Vento trial B3
 A SoHo woman's mysterious life ended on Saturday as mysteriously as she lived it. The police said she died either from a bullet-shaped hole in her chest or from a suspicious fire that consumed her apartment. B6

 
Business Digest D1
 
SportsMonday

 
Baseball: Mets win with 3 in 9th C1

 
Jays top Yanks C7

 
Pirates back in first place C6

 
White Sox sweep A's C7

 
Big moment for Teufel C6

 
Basketball: Night the Nets died C1

 
New pact for Bianchi C4

 
Draft aspirants look back C4

 
Boating: Risk from sea debris C7

 
Boxing: Czyz stops Maynard C2

 
Column: Vecsey on Maradona C3

 
Cycling: Alcala says title is within reach C4

 
Features: Sports World Specials C2

 
Question Box C11

 
Golf: Irwin wins again C1

 
Horse Racing: Mistaurian wins Vagrancy C7

 
Outdoors: Surf fishing gear C12

 
Soccer: Argentines and Germans win C3

 
Obituaries B10

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Who was B. Traven? C13

 
More artworks found in Texas C14

 
Music: Three Glass operas C13

 
Billy Joel at Yankee Stadium C13

 
Steve Reich and 4 saxophones C15

 
Honoring Milt Hinton C15

 
Greg Osby and new duo C15

 
Randy Weston's jazz piano C15

 
Concert of toy pianos C16

 
Percussionist, and singer C15

 
Caramoor Music Festival C18

 
Dance: Of Tudor and Balanchine C15

 
Word and Image
 
Max Lerner's battle with the angel of death C18

 
Radical women in prison C16

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A16

 
Help Koreas in from the cold
 
Mr. Bush vs. the Charlatans
 
Hunters Point, now or never
 
Letters A16

 
Tom Wicker: Worth a mention? A17

 
William Safire: Ethnocentrifugal force A17

 
McGeorge Bundy: Korea - the right decision A17

 
Robert J. Donovan: Korea - at what cost? A17

 
Neal Karlen: A ''school'' for math, prose and character A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CANADA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); FRANCE (79%); ALGERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); THAILAND (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: STRIP AS (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); FILM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); FILM GENRES (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (72%); 



643 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: German Unity Revives Hopes on War Claims

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
German reunification has raised the hopes of thousands of people who have claims against East Germany arising from crimes of the Nazi era and the confiscation of property during the four decades of Communist rule.
Until its recent democratic changes, East Germany had refused to recognize such claims. But now as East Germany prepares to merge with West Germany, Bonn officials say they will honor East German obligations.
''The fact that we unite doesn't make these claims obsolete,'' said Hans-Henning Horstmann, spokesman at the West German Embassy. ''On the contrary, as we unite we will make sure these claims are honored.'' But he said some ''difficult procedures ahead'' before settlements are reached. 
At a meeting in East Berlin tomorrow, the East German authorities will sit down for the first time with representatives of Jews around the world to begin negotiations on compensation.
West Germany sought to resolve claims from the Jews under an agreement signed in Luxembourg in 1952. Since then an estimated $40 billion has flowed to Israel, Jewish institutions and individual Jewish survivors. Elan Steinberg, executive director of the World Jewish Congress, a representative body of Jews in 70 countries, said reparations involve moral redress and material amends. Most payments by Bonn have gone to indemnify survivors and their families. Hundreds of thousands of individuals have received monthly stipends.
Bonn also made a direct payment of $715 million to Israel in 1952 for resettlement of refugees from Europe and a payment of $107 million to Jewish institutions for refugees outside Israel.
In addition to the prewar victims of the Third Reich are property owners whose factories, stores, houses, apartments and other real estate were seized by the Communist Government. East Germany also owes about $20 billion to foreign creditors, chiefly European and Japanese banks.
''I have no doubt that this debt will become the debt of West Germany,'' said Horst Schulmann, a former senior Bonn economist who heads the Institute of International Finance, representing banks in 60 countries.
Some indication of the size of the indemnification issue arises from the claims that a million West Germans have asserted to property in East Germany. In many cases, East Germans have been living on the sites for decades. There are thousands of claims as well from citizens of other countries.
In the United States, the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, a 36-year-old agency, formally recognizes 1,899 claims of property expropriated in East Germany from American citizens and corporations like Woolworth, I.T.T., General Motors and Singer.
Initially valued at $78 million, based on low prewar assessments, the claims today, as a result of 6 percent annual compound interest, have mushroomed to $370 million. A State Department official said the United States was pursuing the claims. ''We're discussing the situation with both German states,'' the official said. Unification Hurdle? Washington is not pressing the matter with any urgency. ''Nobody wants the claims issue to complicate the unification process,'' the State Department official pointed out.
Some Eastern European governments settled property claims for much less when they came to terms with the United States earlier in the postwar period. Poland paid only $40 million on $107.7 million claimed. Hungary paid $21.1 million of $61.9 million.
East Germany is the only Eastern European nation that has refused to pay compensation. Martina Greenwood of Burke, Va., a claimant, owned an apartment building assessed at $150,000 near the center of Leipzig, in East Germany. She inherited the building from her grandmother.
''We feel the Germans should honor 100 cents on the dollar,'' said Alfred R. Greenwood, Martina's husband. ''As a result of reunification, Germany's economic well-being and economic power will grow dramatically.'' The Greenwoods now have a choice of repossessing the property or waiting months, perhaps years, for a settlement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); WORLD JEWISH CONGRESS (55%); WORLD JEWISH CONGRESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; NAZI ERA; JEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); REFUGEES (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (62%); ASSET FORFEITURE (58%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



644 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Small Towns Losing Their Leaders

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DERBY, Vt.

 BODY:
In March, after 18 years as a selectman in this small town on the Canadian border, Carl Hackett resigned his office.
Mr. Hackett, who is 59 years old, said he left the part-time administrative post midway through his sixth term because the pressures of small town government had become unbearable.
''When I joined the board, a little bit of arithmetic, some good common sense and a sense of honesty made you a good candidate for selectman,'' said Mr. Hackett, who runs a trailer park. ''Now, it's preferable you're a lawyer.'' Mr. Hackett is not alone. Across the country, officials in small towns, cities and villages say the tradition of private citizens overseeing small municipalities in their spare time is dying. 
 
Governing in Complex Times
With the growing complexity of issues, like new environmental protection standards and burgeoning budget responsibilities, fewer citizens are seeking the part-time, largely volunteer positions that have run small towns. Officials say that the jobs now require professional skills they do not possess and that town administration steals too many hours from their lives.
The increasing complexity, also a concern of professional organizations and political scientists, could lead to fundamental changes in the ways towns govern themselves, experts say.
''When you dry up that supply to the point where there are few willing candidates, sometimes no candidates at all, you strike at the very heart of self-government,'' said Alvin Sokolow, a professor of political science at the University of California at Davis.
Officials of municipalities, in telephone interviews from around the country, said several factors are responsible for the changes in government. They cited an avalanche of new Federal and state regulations, budgets that have been pushed above $1 million by rising costs and responsibilities and economic hardships that require more sophisticated stewardship.
Several towns have buckled under the pressure and transferred their responsibilities to state governments. Most have taken less severe measures: They hire professional managers, collaborate with neighboring towns on large projects, and use a little arm-twisting to remind residents that theyhave a civic duty to serve.
 
Strains Bring Change
Experts who study rural government say there is a paucity of data on the subject, largely because of the high cost of polling thousands of town officials across the country. Nevertheless, they point to a number of examples of what they say is a clear trend.
The towns feeling the most strain are those with populations of less than 10,000, and those represent 86 percent of the governments in the United States.
For every small town growing in population, there is a small town shrinking said Jeffrey Schiff, executive director of the National Association of Towns and Townships, an organization of small governments. Both situations present complications, either in demands for new, costly services or in shrinking tax bases and revenue.
Derby, a rural Vermont town with about 4,500 residents, was a different place in 1972, when Carl Hackett was appointed to a vacancy on its three-member board of selectmen. At that time, the town was dominated by 100 dairy farms.
Now, 75 of those farms are gone and much of the land has been sold to developers, who built modern homes for new residents on large lots with scenic views of the Green Mountains. There are also a number of new businesses here, including a McDonald's restaurant and a General Motors automobile dealership.
 
New Citizens, New Demands
And, Mr. Hackett said, new residents make new demands, like asking the town to plow snow off the streets before they leave for their 9-to-5 jobs. Mr. Hackett said he had neither the energy nor the time to tackle those new requests because of a litany of directives from the Federal and state governments on everything from solid waste disposal to personnel management.
''There is just no way a person having a reasonable full-time job could possibly read the amount of material that flows into the town office weekly,'' he said.
In some small towns, a diminishing population and an increased workload have made it difficult to fill elected positions.
In Matherville, Ill., population 814, no one ran for mayor, and only two residents sought six seats on the village board of trustees in the most recent municipal election.
The residential community, located in the northwestern part of the state, used to have strong candidates to fill government posts. But that was before the local economy slumped, causing a number of area factories to close and a number of people to move away, said Kevin J. Basala, who became the town's mayor last April as a result of write-in votes.
 
'I'm Busy'
''I'm like everyone else - I'm busy,'' said Mr. Basala, a full-time ironworker. ''But I'd really have felt bad if somewhere down the line this town fell apart, and I had the chance to do something about it, and I didn't do it.''
In response to the problem of finding willing volunteers, but more often to cope with the complexity of government, a rising number of small towns are hiring professional managers, said Mark Lapping, dean of the Faculty of Planning at Rutgers University.
Large cities and towns began writing positions for professional managers into their charters in the 1920's to clean up the corruption and inefficiency that were rampant in municipal government, Mr. Lapping said. But in recent years, smaller towns in strong financial shape have been hiring managers for a different purpose: to do most of the chores of government, including labor negotiations, budget planning and applying for grants.
Last November, residents in Kalispell, a small Montana city near Glacier National Park, voted to replace their mayor-city council form of government with one made up of a city council and headed by a professional manager.
Roger Hopkins, who was elected interim Mayor last fall, said the city Government had been unable to handle a population that had swelled to 12,000, a city budget that had risen to $8 million and a town staff that had grown to 150.
''I think we're ready for an outside perspective on our problems,'' Mr. Hopkins said.
 
Legacy of Reagan Years
The problems of small towns across the country multiplied during the Reagan Administration, when the Federal Government shifted responsibility for many of its programs to local governments, said Mr. Schiff of the National Association of Towns and Townships. During the same period, the Federal and state governments asked local governments to meet new standards in environmental protection, waste management, road maintenance, civil rights and other areas.
But as the Federal Government increased the workload of local governments, it took away much of the money needed to carry out its directives, Mr. Lapping said.
In 1986, Congress did not re-enact the General Revenue Sharing Act, under which the governments had split Federal tax money annually since 1972. In 1986, that amount was $4.5 billion. And for 80 percent of the nation's governments, it was the sole source of Federal money, Mr. Schiff said.
There are signs that some solutions are being found.
Last fall, Senator John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio, introduced a bill that calls on Federal agencies to protect small governments from excessive regulation.
And over the past few years, many towns have been joining with neighboring communities to share the costs of government.
 
One Region's Response
North Carolina's governments, for example, have expanded 18 regional planning agencies that they created in the 1960s to promote economic development.
Some towns have decided that the most cost-efficient option is to quit rather than fight.
Towns in Maine, Kansas and Missouri, for example, have ceased in recent years to govern themselves.
It is not known how many more such cases might exist nationwide. But Frederick Todd, who takes up governmental functions of towns in Maine that surrender their autonomy, said he does not anticipate an epidemic of municipalities giving up their authority, and he added that the state could support only so many. ''At some point the state will have to increase the rate at which it taxes unorganized towns,'' said Mr. Todd, planning supervisor for the Maine Land Use Regulation Commission.
In light of recent world events, stories of towns disbanding are disturbing to one expert - Mr. Lapping, the Rutgers University planning professor.
''Here we are working to promote democracy all over the world,'' Mr. Lapping said, ''and in our own country, we're seeing communities giving up local autonomy and self-government.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Across the country, officials in small towns, cities and villages say the tradition of private citizens overseeing small municipalities in their spare time is dying. Carl Hackett recently resigned as a selectman in Derby, Vt., because the pressures of small town government had become unbearable. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (50%); TOWNS&TOWNSHIPS (55%); 

SUBJECT: LOCAL GOVERNMENT REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (73%); TRAILER PARKS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); VOLUNTEERS (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



645 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Help the Koreas In From the Cold

 BODY:
Forty years after the cold war turned hot, North and South Korea are about to engage again -at the conference table. New warmth between the U.S. and the Soviet Union is thawing relations between the Koreas. That's a hopeful development. It could, among other benefits, allow the U.S. to bring more troops home. 
A get-together Thursday may lead to a meeting of prime ministers. Informal talks between the Koreas have proceeded fitfully between military officers, parliamentarians, even senior government aides, but never between prime ministers.
Enduring mistrust has led both sides to exploit past talks for propaganda purposes. But if Washington and Moscow, along with Tokyo and Beijing, can keep coaxing the two Koreas into military disengagement and political re-engagement, this time there could be a widely welcomed result.
The Korean War exacted a terrible price on both sides of the 38th parallel. Three million Koreans died, most of them civilians. The U.S. and its allies rallied to the South's defense under the United Nations flag. Stalin sent Soviet MIG's and pilots to help the North and when Gen. Douglas MacArthur marched north to the Yalu River, China joined the war.
Later sacked for insubordination, MacArthur electrified Americans with a famous speech to Congress concluding, ''Old soldiers never die; they just fade away.'' MacArthur faded away, sooner than he wished. By the time this ''police action'' ended, 54,000 American, 5,000 allied and possibly 900,000 Chinese troops had died.
After the war, South and North went their separate ways. The South has speedily made itself one of the world's more prosperous countries; the North stolidly makes even Communism work.
Now others try to reconcile them. The 1988 Seoul Olympics led to a budding relationship between the Soviet Union and South Korea. Then Beijing provided a discreet point of contact between the U.S. and North Korea. When President Gorbachev met President Roh in San Francisco earlier this month, Washington worked to reach out to Pyongyang. And Japan, with a million Korean residents, remains an influential economic and political go-between.
Seoul pundits refer to the outside involvement as the ''four-plus-two'' talks, a twist on the ''two-plus-four'' talks in Germany. If the four succeed in drawing Pyongyang out of self-imposed isolation, the two Koreas could establish diplomatic relations and seek dual seating at the U.N. That would open the way for family visits, increased trade, investment and cultural exchanges and, eventually, one Korea. Two Koreas are anathema to the North but as the South says, two Yemens are already one, and two Germanys soon will be.
North Korea may accept international nuclear safeguards and is proposing new arms cuts. These steps could ease the military confrontation on the peninsula and allow the U.S. to reduce its force of 45,000 troops in the South. And there would be no reason to keep U.S. nuclear weapons there.
Bringing Koreans back together is so obviously in Korean and American interest that Washington would be wise to do what it can to encourage these talks. And, beyond maintaining diplomatic channels to the North, the United States can show its willingness to make further troop withdrawals and curtail military exercises, on land and at sea. Gradual disarming can strengthen diplomacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COLD WAR (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); OLYMPICS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



646 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Fall of Great Fortunes Is an American Story

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Cornelius Vanderbilt died in 1877 at the age of 82, the world's richest man, leaving an estate that topped the size of the United States Treasury. Within 30 years of the Commodore's death, no member of his family was among the richest people in the United States. 
Forty-eight years after his death, one of his descendants died penniless. Within 70 years of his death, the last of the 10 great Vanderbilt mansions that had once lined Fifth Avenue was broken to rubble. When 120 of the Commodore's descendants gathered at Vanderbilt University in 1973 for the first family reunion, there was not a millionaire among them.
The fast rise, and often equally fast fall, of our great fortunes seems to be a peculiarly American phenomenon, a special part of our history, the latest chapter of which is unfolding with the saga of Donald J. Trump, whose fortune began with the old Commodore Hotel and whose ''glittering towers, plazas, palaces and hotels'' occupy the old Vanderbilt neighborhood (''Up, and Down, With Donald Trump'' editorial, June 9).
Last year, a review of my book, ''Fortune's Children: The Fall of the House of Vanderbilt,'' a four-generation saga of the decline of what was once the nation's most conspicuous family of millionaires, noted with percipience that this book ''could give Donald Trump nightmares.'' The Commodore even painted his name on all his acquisitions as avidly as Mr. Trump.
 
ARTHUR T. VANDERBILT 2D
Summit, N.J., June 11, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMODORE HOTEL (91%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (93%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (89%); 



647 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Worth A Mention?

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
When the Great Scorer comes to write your name, as everybody knows, it doesn't matter whether you won or lost, ''it's how you played the game.'' Or so Americans like to delude themselves.
In politics, however, when the Great Mentioner comes to say your name, it matters indeed whether you won or lost. And that's the biggest question hanging over a certain Northeastern liberal governor, a Democrat whose name ends in a vowel. 
No, not Mario Cuomo of New York. It's so nearly certain that Mr. Cuomo will win overwhelming re-election this year that many in his party are more interested, at least for now, in the fate of Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey. Even the Great Mentioner may be reading the news from Trenton.
The G.M., whose work was first detected by my esteemed colleague Russell Baker, is the mysterious arbiter of who gets ''mentioned'' as a possibility for the next open Presidential nomination, sure to be Democratic in 1992.
Jim Florio? Six months ago the only thing most political buffs - save fellow members of the House of Representatives - knew about him was that in 1981 he had lost the race for governor to Tom Kean, a Republican, returned to the House, then eight years later defeated James Courter, another Republican, for governor.
Better still, or maybe worse, he won in 1989 not least because he struck first and hardest in a reciprocal campaign of nasty advertising. Mr. Florio, a Roman Catholic, is pro-choice, too, but for the death penalty - a combination some Democrats might like to see in their next Presidential candidate.
Now Mr. Florio has pushed through the New Jersey Legislature a program that might be called liberalism brought up to date and adjusted for the 90's:
* Cutting state aid to wealthy school districts to equalize education spending in poor and middle-class districts.
* Tougher penalties for companies despoiling New Jersey's environment.
* The ban on assault weapons that President Bush, with 70 percent popularity, doesn't have the nerve to seek.
* Automobile insurance revamped for consumers.
* Property tax relief for the middle class.
On the other hand, New Jersey's new Governor did some brutal budget-cutting, to cope with an estimated budget shortfall of nearly $1 billion. He also backed significant tax increases, particularly in the higher brackets; but the sales tax went up, too, from 6 to 7 percent, and will be newly levied on some popular items like liquor and cigarettes.
With the passage last week of the tax increases and the hotly contested education reform package, Mr. Florio and the Legislature completed this program in just six months from his inauguration in January. That's what Congressional Democrats moan they can't do - pass a social program in the teeth of a huge deficit. The bold Florio tax increases also put to shame those Democratic and White House negotiators bowing like Alphonse and Gaston in front of the Federal budget mess.
The New Jersey school reforms -enacted over the fervent opposition of a state teachers' union worried about members' pensions - directly assault the inferior educational system that plagues not only that state but most of the nation, and threatens to further disadvantage the U.S. in international competition in the high-tech future. The Florio plan will add $1 billion to support for about 360 districts, but cut aid to 220 others - the most affluent, so potentially the most influential politically.
The question is how New Jersey will react when the higher income tax hits the well-to-do, an increased sales tax raises prices to middle-class voters, and fat-cat districts lose favored programs to help pay for a chemistry lab in a slum school.
Will the economy turn down, as some predict? Will the Legislature go Republican? Will more money poured into classrooms for the poor really pay off in educational improvement? It will take time to find out, and Mr. Florio concedes that money is only the first necessity.
He's also convinced, he told Peter Kerr of The New York Times, that the voters can take bad news, particularly when they understand their own self-interest, and will reward strong leadership that tackles the real problems of American life. Not many politicians either believe that, or act on it if they do.
That is why Democrats are keeping an eye on the way New Jersey responds to Jim Florio's temerity - and why the Great Mentioner may yet whisper another name that ends in a vowel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (85%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); BUDGETS (85%); TAX INCREASES (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (67%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); SALES TAX (65%); BUDGET CUTS (62%); TRENDS (62%); EDUCATION REFORM (62%); TAX RELIEF (60%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); RELIGION (50%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) JAMES A COURTER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



648 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
The Federal cleanup of the savings and loan disaster will result in a significant transfer of wealth from the Northeast and Middle West to Texas and other states in the Southwest, many economists and politicians say. As a consequence, the economy in the Southwest, where most of the cost of the savings and loan failures was incurred, is likely to be stronger in the years ahead. [Page A1.] 
 
American steel exports, which increased sharply last year, are receding, partly because of fluctuating currency rates and heavy international price competition. [D1.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
 
Hollywood is feeling the growing importance of foreign markets for movies. Before going ahead with a project, studios are increasingly trying to consider how movie scripts and actors will play not only in Peoria but in Pisa, Perth and, now, Prague. [A1.]
 
Crown Books has become an industry giant through its aggressive policy of discounting. [D14.]
 
A move to abolish or curtail the right of newspapers to establish joint operating arrangements is under way. [D14.]
 
Proposed legislation to re-regulate the cable television industry has created some strange alliances. Television. [D14.]
 
Young & Rubicam continues to update its public-service campaign for the United Negro College Fund, basing it around the well-known line, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste.'' Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D15.]
 
COMPANIES
 
American Telephone and Telegraph is enjoying its first real successes in its bid to become a world-class semiconductor maker. A.T.&T. tried to become a commercial supplier in the memory-chip market five years ago and stumbled embarrassingly before Japanese competitors. [D1.]
 
A group of banks is said to be preparing a $20 million temporary loan for Donald J. Trump, who faces a deadline of midnight tomorrow to make a payment on a ''junk bond'' issue for one of his casinos. [D1.]
 
Roger B. Smith, who is retiring from General Motors, says the apparently disastrous exodus of G.M. customers during his tenure was not so bad as it looked and is being reversed. [D2.]
 
INTERNATIONAL REPORT
 
Japan and the United States are about to square off over one of the thorniest issues blocking conclusion of a major trade pact -how much the Japanese will invest in public works at home. [D1.]
 
Canada's Finance Minister, Michael H. Wilson, appealed to investors in the United States and elsewhere not to allow the possiblity of an independence move by Quebec to obscure the ''basic strength'' of the country's economy. [D1.] In Montreal, independence-minded people had an opportunity to express a newly politicized patriotism. [A3.] For the moment, no major moves that would splinter Canada are likely. News Analysis. [A3.]
 
A new breed of wealthy deal makers are buying stakes in some of Sweden's biggest companies. [D13.]
 
The Indian Government is seeking to reduce its heavy oil import bill and curb gasoline consumption. [D13.]
 
The Islamic Salvation Front capitalized on discontent with the economy in its sweeping victories earlier in the month in Algeria's first free elections since 1962. [A1.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS Most established law firms have avoided bankruptcy work, but that is changing. Stephen Labaton: Business and the Law. [D2.]
 
The apparel manufacturer Salant has been hobbled by problems since it bought Manhattan Industries. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Bond yields are expected to stay within a narrow range around 8.5 percent for most of the summer. The Fed is showing little interest in altering monetary policy. Credit Markets. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (56%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (51%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (51%); 

COMPANY: CROWN BOOKS CORP (56%); AT&T INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (55%); UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BONDS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (71%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (70%); ELECTRONICS (70%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



649 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Steelmakers' Foreign Push Hurt by Decline in Exports

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
American steel exports, which increased sharply last year, are receding, partly because of fluctuating currency rates and heavy international price competition.
The decline in exports also reflects a recent increase in domestic demand from the auto industry, as well as limited production capacity. Over all, sales and profits are down but better than expected.
In the first quarter of 1990, the most recent period for which figures are available, steel exports slid 4.4 percent, compared with the similar period last year, the American Iron and Steel Institute reported. 
 
Counter to Expectations
Many economists and steel analysts said the decline was disappointing because exports had been expected to be a growing source of additional business for the steel industry. They were also disappointed that American steel companies in general had failed to establish sales and marketing networks overseas, despite a weakened dollar and increased demand that had made American-made steel more attractive to overseas buyers over the last two years.
The most significant gain in that area came two years ago when the USX Corporation, the nation's largest steel producer, reopened its long-dormant export subsidiary, United States Steel International Inc., with the aim of increasing its exports. And others, including Armco Inc, a steel producer based in Parsippany, N.J., said they would devote more attention to exporting steel.
But Thomas Graham, the president of USX's steel division, said recently that the company expected exports to be down slightly for the entire year from the 1.3 million tons USX shipped overseas last year, largely as a result of the decline of the dollar in relation to the Japanese yen. A weak dollar helps American exports by reducing the prices of those goods in other currencies. USX, based in Pittsburgh, last year increased its exports sharply and won a large contract to provide tubular steel to the Soviet Union.
Robert R. Toothman, a spokesman for the National Steel Corporation, said the Pittsburgh-based company's exports had dropped because of increased demand from automobile manufacturers in the last few months. ''The auto companies have gotten back in the swing of things and construction demand is higher,'' Mr. Toothman said. ''We like to export steel, but we serve our domestic customers first because they are in it for the long run. When demand is strong, we don't have the capacity to do both.''
Other United States steelmakers report a similar increase in demand from auto makers.
 
Production Capacity Down
That sentiment is prevalent among steel industry executives who say that after years of slashing their capacity in the lean years of the early 1980's, they have little if any production capacity to dedicate to exports during times of higher demand.
John Jacobson, an analyst with AUS Consultants in Philadelphia, criticized steel companies for not developing marketing and sales ties with steel customers in other countries. ''That's one area in which U.S. steel companies are remiss versus their international competitors,'' he said. ''They don't take advantage of the opportunity to expand. You develop competitive intellegence about what's going on with pricing, market opportunities and ongoing customer relationships. And the United States steel industry is largely left out of that.''
Historically, the American steel industry has shipped relatively little overseas. Although exports accounted for 4.8 million tons, or about 5 percent of total shipments last year, that figure is far lower than the peak of 7.1 million tons shipped in 1970. For most of the 1980's American steel companies essentially ceded the export market while they sought to preserve their domestic business. Exports declined during most of the 1980's, from 4.1 million tons at the beginning of the decade, until 1988, when they began to climb again.
 
Overseas Consumption
Christopher Plummer, an analyst with the WEFA Group, said China and the Soviet Union had decreased their purchases of American-made steel in the first quarter of this year. ''With China, there are economic and foreign exchange problems, and the Government has made an effort to reduce imports,'' Mr. Plummer said, adding that shipments to China plunged to about 2,000 tons in the first quarter, compared with 150,000 tons in the similar period last year. Also, he noted, shipments to the Soviet Union dropped to 31,000 tons in the first quarter, from 44,000 in the similar period last year. ''They are having severe currency shortages,'' Mr. Plummer said, ''which has discouraged purchases of American-made steel.''
But shipments to some countries have increased. Exports to Japan rose to 155,000 tons in the first quarter, compared with 100,000 tons in the comparable period last year. Similarly, shipments to Canada grew to 311,000 tons in the first quarter, from 129,000 tons in 1989 period. Also, exports to Mexico increased to 125,000 tons, from 117,000 tons in last year's period.
At the same time, steelmakers say the export market has remained vigorous for higher-quality products, like stainless steel and the various coated steels used in aircraft and engines. ''We are experiencing a good year,'' said Paul C. Walker, the general manager of international business for Armco. ''Demand has been strong and our exports were up in the first five months of this year by about 10 to 15 percent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (83%); X (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (82%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (83%); UNITED STATES STEEL INTERNATIONAL INC (82%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (82%); NATIONAL STEEL CORP (64%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (57%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY; PRICES; PRODUCTION IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P THOMAS C GRAHAM (54%); 



650 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: A Debate In Japan on Its Surplus

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 24

 BODY:
In negotiations that begin here on Monday, Japan and the United States will square off on one of the thorniest issues blocking conclusion of a key trade agreement - how much the Japanese Government will invest at home on sewerage plants, airports, bridges and other projects to use up savings that have been buying foreign assets, from factories to Picassos.
But a battle that had seemed a dipand eventual compromise has taken on a different cast in recent weeks. An important Finance Ministry study outlined the arguments for Japan's maintaining, rather than eliminating, its trade surpluses.
At stake, in the eyes of some people here, is not a few billion yen or some new roads, but whether the huge horde of savings in Japanese hands after a decade of large surpluses will become a tool to advance Japanese policies abroad or simply a means to satisfy American demands. 
 
Developed Into a Struggle
For the Japanese, particularly the powerful Ministry of Finance, this has developed into a struggle over Japan's attempts to define an independent financial strategy, one key aim of which would be to expand the nation's economic clout abroad.
The United States has insisted that the Government commit up to 10 percent of its annual budget for public investment, from 6.7 percent last year. The Japanese have resisted setting a percentage, preferring to negotiate a set amount, a figure that some Japanese officials feel could be reduced in the future. There are other sticking points, but this one has drawn out the deepest philosophical differences between the sides.
''Japan faces a very important choice,'' said Tomomitsu Oba, a former vice finance minister for international affairs and a key advocate and architect of the emerging strategy. ''It is between more public investment domestically or increased international cooperation to help developing countries grow and to revitalize Eastern Europe. If our surpluses keep shrinking, I do not think Japan can do both.''
On the one hand, as many have pointed out, the comments can be seen as a negotiating ploy - holding increases in Japanese foreign aid hostage to the American demand that Japan sharply increase its public investment at home.
But in the longer run, the comments also carry the outlines of the new strategy, which could have an effect not just on the current negotiations, but on Japan's influence over the third world's debt crisis, the success of Japanese companies expanding into poor countries, and the policies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, where Japan's voice has grown as it has raised its financial commitments.
Mr. Oba is the chairman of the Finance Ministry advisory group that began to outline publicly the arguments for maintaining Japan's trade surpluses. His advisory group also urged that Japan use its foreign aid as a tool to make it more attractive for Japanese industry to invest and expand in the developing world.
 
'Great Deal of Influence'
A senior Finance Ministry official said the advisory group's report was a proposal, not policy. But he added, ''This report is a significant part of the consensus-building process, and it will have a great deal of influence on our thinking.''
The official went so far as to call it a ''vision,'' borrowing the term applied to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry's papers that define Japan's industrial policy. In essence, Japan is creating an international financial policy.
Makoto Utsumi, the current vice foreign minister for international affairs, tried to quell the controversy on the report by Mr. Oba's advisory group by saying there was no attempt to justify Japan's surpluses.
Nonetheless, he also stressed the need for Japan and other countries to encourage savings. As Mr. Oba explained, the Japanese see savings as a product of the country's surplus. When another senior ministry official was asked afterward if that meant the policy was to eliminate Japan's yawning surpluses completely, he denied that that was so.
In a lengthy interview in his large, cluttered office, Mr. Oba, who is 60 years old, forcefully stated the case for a more assertive Japanese policy that would require the maintenance of a trade surplus and a relative decline in the amount of Japanese capital flowing into the United States. He said one of the biggest problems in Japan's capital exports was that too much went to the United States now, where it has only created friction. He asserted that Japan should channel more capital exports to developing countries, where he felt the money would be more productive.
He called Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady's plan for lowering the debt of third world countries a failure because it called for Japanese banks to offer new loans to these countries without any concomitant increase in their ability to influence the borrowers' national policies.
''The Brady proposal amounts to an American initiative, Japanese money,'' Mr. Oba said disapprovingly. ''We have to express a new philosophy for dispensing aid, so that it really achieves something.''
He suggested instead that Japan's official aid be used to make those countries more attractive to direct investment from Japanese companies. He said the investment would not burden the countries with debt payments and would bring to them new technology and job growth. It would also make Japanese companies more efficient and potentially wealthier by giving them access to low-cost labor and new markets.
He described the strategy using a Japanese proverb that translates roughly as ''using a small shrimp to catch a big fish.'' It would amount to a Government-industry partnership. For example, building a good airport, good roads and schools in a country with Government aid might attract Japanese manufacturers.
For the most part, this is a Finance Ministry strategy that has not gained full acceptance from the other ministries involved in the trade talks, the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Some officials of other ministries have bitterly criticized their Finance Ministry counterparts because of their resistance to compromise on the issue of public investment.
There has also been sharp criticism of the emerging strategy. Yoichi Funabashi, an influential columnist for the Asahi Shimbun newspaper, flatly called the Finance Ministry insistence on maintaining a trade surplus ''absurd'' and the product of ''narrow, turf interests.'' He pointed out that the United States remained one of the largest donors of foreign aid, even though it had huge deficits and debts in the last decade.
 
Japan's Status as Donor
TOKYO, June 24 (AP) - Japan has surpassed the United States to become the world's largest donor of foreign aid in 1989, providing nearly $9 billion in official development assistance, the Foreign Ministry says.
The $8.96 billion that Japan supplied to poor nations was down 1.9 percent from the previous year in dollar terms but still put Japan in the No. 1 position, the ministry said on Friday, citing statistics compiled by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development.
The United States, previously the top donor, provided $7.66 billion in foreign aid in 1989.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tomomitsu Oba, a former Government finance official, who argues that Japan should maintain its trade surpluses. (Ellen Rudolph for The New York Times) (pg. D13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PUBLIC WORKS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES TOMOMITSU OBA (72%); 



651 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: In Canada, An Appeal For Calm

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, June 24

 BODY:
As anxiety spread among Canadians about a possible push for independence by Quebec, Finance Minister Michael H. Wilson of Canada today appealed to investors in the United States and elsewhere to recognize the ''basic strength'' of the country's economy and not to overreact to the political concerns of the moment.
After the collapse on Friday night of an agreement that many feared was the last chance to secure Quebec's commitment to the Canadian confederation, Mr. Wilson and his top aides spent the weekend in his suite on the 21st floor of the Finance Ministry building here. Aides to the minister said he was seeking to calm investors' jitters when the world's financial markets open on Monday.
''People outside Canada can have confidence that the underlying strengths of this country will continue,'' Mr. Wilson said in an interview arranged at his request. 
In a statement issued this afternoon, Mr. Wilson stressed that the uncertainties about Quebec's future that arose when a constitutional agreement collapsed on Friday would not disrupt Government economic policies. He said Canada's commitment to the free-trade agreement with the United States, which relaxed restraints on American investments in Canada and lowered tariffs when it took effect on Jan. 1, 1989, would remain strong.
 
The U.S.-Canada Partnership
With more than $150 billion in trade last year, Canada and the United States are each other's largest trading partners. The nations' investments in each other's economy are also the largest in the world.
Support for the free-trade pact has has come from the current Quebec Government of Premier Robert Bourassa and from the opposition Parti Quebecois, which favors independence for the province.
Mr. Wilson spent the day calling on people he has met during 20 years in corporate and government finance on Bay Street, Toronto's financial district, as well as on the relationships he has developed since becoming Finance Minister in 1984.
He said Daniel Johnson, Quebec's Finance Minister, had agreed in a telephone conversation today that both Governments would do everything possible to insure a continuation of their normal working relationships on matters affecting the economy.
 
Talks With Officials
Mr. Wilson and his aides also spoke with top officials in the financial markets in New York, Montreal and Toronto, among others.
Mr. Wilson said he was encouraged by a conversation with a man he described as ''one of the most senior people on Wall Street.'' He said that man had told him of recent discussions in Europe and the United States that had indicated broad confidence in Canada's economic future among investors, despite the constitutional problems.
''He told me that Canada's prospects, with or without this agreement with Quebec, looked pretty good,'' the minister said.
The Finance Minister also made his case in interviews with reporters from the United States, Europe and Asia, and in a statement issued this afternoon he sought to counter suggestions that the demise of an agreement that would have given Quebec special constitutional status reflected widespread animosities between Quebec and English-speaking Canada.
 
An Implied Preference
In one interview, Mr. Wilson avoided discussing the economic effects on Canada or Quebec of the province gaining independence, saying that Mr. Bourassa, the Quebec Premier, had implied a preference for working out a solution that kept the province part of Canada when, at a Quebec news conference on Saturday, he said the province would continue to discuss the constitutional future with the Ottawa Government.
Mr. Wilson also cited with approval Mr. Bourassa's statement that the province's eventual choice would be based on what was best for Quebec's ''economic security'' and for its prospects of attracting foreign investment.
''We're not talking about Quebec independence,'' Mr. Wilson said. Seated in an office with a view across the Ottawa River to Quebec, whose western boundary meets Ontario's here, he added: ''We're talking about how we can maintain the existence of this country, with Quebec as part of it.''
In light of Mr. Bourassa's remarks, Mr. Wilson said, foreigners trading in the Canadian currency and in other Canadian financial instruments, as well as those making decisions on investments here, should pay attention not to the constitutional problems but to the soundness of the Canadian economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; WILSON, MICHAEL (MIN) MICHAEL H WILSON (94%); ROBERT BOURASSA (70%); 



652 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE CHANGES

 BODY:
* Audits and Surveys Inc., New York, a marketing research company, promoted William Liebman to senior vice president and senior administrative officer, and Anthony Timiraos to senior vice president for finance, chief financial officer and head of the company's legal matters.
* First Union Corp., Charlotte, N.C., a financial holding company, named John R. Georgius president. 
* Lifetime Corp., Boston, a health care services company, named Lloyd L. Hill president of its Kimberly Quality Care subsidiary, and appointed John S. Nord chief operating officer.
* Midlantic Corp., Edison, N.J., a bank holding company, named Donald W. Ebbert Jr. senior vice president and director of investor relations.
* Revlon Inc., New York, a subsidiary of the MacAndrews & Forbes Group, promoted Stanley B. Dessen to senior vice president for taxation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); 2425 (JASDAQ) (72%); REV (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (95%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (72%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GFK AG (95%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); CARE SERVICE CO LTD (72%); LIFETIME CORP (72%); REVLON INC (70%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (93%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); HEALTH CARE (71%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM LIEBMAN (60%); JOHN S NORD (55%); LLOYD L HILL (55%); DONALD W EBBERT JR (55%); STANLEY B DESSEN (55%); JOHN R GEORGIUS (55%); ANTHONY TIMIRAOS (55%); 



653 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Trading Hits Summer Doldrums

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
As the second quarter comes to a close, summer languor is beginning to envelop the credit markets.
The chances that bond yields will move in a narrow trading range around 8.50 percent appear even more likely this year than in previous summers.
Fundamentally, the economy is losing momentum, very slowly. Inflationary pressures are receding, but only gradually. Mindful of these conditions, the Federal Reserve Board, intent on controlling inflation without inducing a recession, is showing little interest in altering the equation now by easing monetary policy. 
''I am still bullish longer term, and think that interest rates will move below 8 percent by the end of the year,'' said William H. Gross, a managing director at the Pacific Investment Management Company in Newport Beach, Calif.
''But things will probably be pretty sleepy until the end of the summer,'' he said. ''Over the next few months there seems to be no substantial risk of higher interest rates.''
The most recent data seem to confirm additional softness in the economy, particularly in the consumer sector, which accounts for two-thirds of all activity.
 
Consumption is Weakening
After seven straight months of gains, consumer spending was flat in May, the Government reported Friday. Those numbers, which followed a revised report on economic growth in the first quarter that included a big downward revision in personal spending, prompted analysts to pare their second-quarter growth estimates.
''The industrial sector is beginning to rise modestly, but consumption is definitely on the weak side,'' said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank. ''I think growth in the second quarter will be between 1.5 percent and 1 percent, but right now I am leaning closer to the lower number.''
Growth of around 1 percent would put the economy on the brink of stalling, but Mr. Fine and others said the Federal Reserve Board's Open Market Committee would resist an easing of monetary policy when it meets in Washington on July 2.
''The latest statements from policy makers imply that a move now would be premature,'' said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc.
 
Early Debt-Ceiling Rise Possible
With no significant economic information to be released until the first week in July, market participants are likely to focus on auctions of two- and four-year Treasury notes this week, as well as on how the Treasury Department resolves an accounting problem that could force the Federal Government's $3.12 trillion debt ceiling to be raised earlier than anticipated.
Late last week, the two-year notes, to be auctioned on Tuesday, were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.34 percent. The four-year notes, which will be sold a day later, were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.43 percent.
The potential problem with the debt ceiling revolves around the way the Government accounts for $30 billion worth of zero-coupon bonds sold earlier this year to Mexico.
The Wall Street Journal said Friday that $27 billion of these bonds fail to qualify for a new method of calculating zero-coupon bonds subject to the debt ceiling. The Treasury Department had been calculating that the Mexican bonds would add about $3 billion to the amount of debt subject to the debt ceiling, The Journal reported.
 
Treasury's Temporary Silence
Robert Levine, a Treasury spokesman, said late last week that the department would not confirm or deny ''to what extent the zero-coupon bonds are affecting the debt ceiling.'' He added that a clarification of the Treasury's position would be issued soon.
''We will have to say something soon about the debt ceiling in any case,'' Mr. Levine said.
If the full $27 billion is counted against the debt ceiling, Congress will have to raise the debt ceiling before adjourning for its August recess, weeks earlier than had been anticipated, analysts said. .
Struggling with the debt ceiling would not only add a new, urgent twist to the continuing budget negotiations, but also would cast doubt on the Treasury's quarterly refunding auctions in early August.
''There is a feeling that a number much smaller than that $27 billion figure will be put out there,'' said Louis v.B. Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, an economic consulting firm. ''Raising the debt ceiling is being used as a vehicle for various budget reform proposals that are going around. But there is virtually no chance that Congress will be able to act by the end of July on the budget and other financial matters.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (70%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (63%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT CEILING (87%); AUCTIONS (84%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL GROSS (58%); 



654 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Sweden's New Breed Of Corporate Raider

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM

 BODY:
Sven-Olof Johansson is a hero and a villain in Sweden. He is a villain to the Swedes who think that aspiring to be rich is a sin - and there are many in this welfare state. And he is a hero to many young Swedes who like the idea of having money and the Ferraris that often go with it.
Mr. Johansson is one of a new breed of deal makers who made their fortune in Sweden's booming stock and real estate markets in the 1980's. They are now buying stakes in the country's biggest companies - putting them on the defensive at a time when they are scrambling to adjust to the single market that their biggest customer, the European Community, is creating.
Mr. Johansson, who rose from a humble background to become one of Sweden's richest men - and the owner of three Ferraris - recently tweaked the nose of Peter Wallenberg, the head of Sweden's most powerful family. He spent 3.2 billion kronor ($525 million) to acquire a 22 percent voting stake in Saab-Scania A.B., the big truck, aircraft and car manufacturer that the Wallenbergs control with a 36 percent voting stake. 
 
Viewed as a 'Greenmailer'
Viewing the overture as unfriendly, Mr. Wallenberg agreed to buy Mr. Johansson's stake for nearly 4.5 billion kronor ($738 million). That deal makes Mr. Johansson about $213 million richer and in the view of many Swedes something of an American-style ''greenmailer'' - someone who buys a stake in a company, hoping to force the company to buy it back at an above-market premium. The ramifications of that perception horrify the establishment here.
''The rise of raiders like Mr. Johansson could in the long run be detrimental to the Swedish economy,'' said Erik Belfrage, a senior vice president of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, a big Swedish bank, and an adviser to Mr. Wallenberg. ''My real worry is that we will move to a situation where companies are forced to place too much importance on short-term profits like in the United States.''
Mr. Johansson has not lost interest in the Wallenberg empire. He says he has paid about 150 million kronor ($25 million) for a 1 percent stake in A.B. Investor, one of the three main holding companies through which the Wallenbergs control most of Sweden's blue-chip companies, including Electrolux, Asea Brown Boveri, Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags, Saab-Scania, L. M. Ericsson and Atlas Copco. The two other holding companies are Export Invest and Forvaltnings A.B. Providentia.
 
Wallenberg Stock Portfolio
At the end of last year, the Wallenberg family's stock portfolio was worth about $5.9 billion, said Jan Dworsky, an analyst at Barclays de Zoette Wedd, the London-based securities firm.
With a couple of exceptions, the family has controlled companies with only 30 percent or less of their shares through a combination of special voting shares and sheer influence. But challengers like Mr. Johansson threaten the power of others in the old guard, which include Svenska Handelsbanken, one of Sweden's oldest and largest banks, and Volvo A.B.
Besides Mr. Johansson, who is 44 years old, new financial powers in Sweden include Erik Penser, who controls Nobel Industrier Sverige, a chemicals, weapons and consumer-goods company; Robert Weil, who controls Gotabanken, Sweden's fourth-largest bank; Peter Gyllenhammar, whose interests include a big securities firm, and Gustaf Douglas, who owns a big stake in Trelleborg, the minerals giant.
 
How Fortunes Were Amassed
Despite Sweden's sky-high taxes -the top marginal income tax rate was 72 percent as recently as 1989 - these deal makers were able to amass fortunes in the 1980's, when the value of Swedish stocks grew tenfold and real estate two- to threefold. They built empires by borrowing against their appreciating real estate and by exploiting tax loopholes and Sweden's favorable treatment of capital gains, which have enabled them to keep as much as 90 percent of their profits.
Under the tax reform that the Social Democratic Government is now carrying out, the top marginal income tax rate will drop to 50 percent next year (it fell to 65 percent this year), and most people will have to pay a flat 30 percent tax on capital gains.
In response, members of the old guard are taking steps to protect themselves. They are increasing their stakes in some of their companies, are increasing the size of others through mergers and are forging cross-ownership links with other concerns.
For instance, come August, when Mr. Wallenberg completes the purchase of Mr. Johansson's holdings in Saab-Scania, the family will own a 58 percent stake in the company. Stora, the pulp and paper giant controlled by the Wallenbergs, paid $2.4 billion to acquire Feldmuhle Nobel, the West German paper company. Volvo has struck complex business and equity deals in food and pharmaceuticals with Procordia, a Swedish Government-controlled concern, and in cars and trucks with France's Renault.
 
Tough Lesson in Mid-1970's
Mr. Johansson learned at an early age that playing with the big boys can be rough. In the mid-1970's, he and some friends failed in their bid to buy control of a steel company in the Handelsbanken sphere. The company outmaneuvered him by issuing new stock in the form of a rights offering to shareholders. Mr. Johansson's group did not have the money to buy its entitled portion and its position was diluted. It had to sell at a loss.
''It took me almost five years to get back to zero,'' he said.
Since the steel company fiasco, Mr. Johansson has done a series of leveraged buyouts of troubled small and medium-size industrial and trading companies, which he fixed up and then sold at a profit.
He claims to have a net worth of more than $500 million. The $213 million for his Saab stock, he says, will give him about $328 million in cash.
Barkman & Company, his holding company with about $230 million in revenues, owns four Apple Computer retail centers, electronics distribution operations, a process control concern and makers of prefabricated buildings and construction supplies.
 
Real Estate Holdings
Mr. Johansson said his real estate portfolio is worth about $1.13 billion, with about 60 percent of that in Sweden. His holdings include about 150 properties - offices, shopping centers, hotels and apartments. Tough building restrictions in many Swedish cities promise to keep occupancy rates, rentals and real estate prices high, he says.
He would like to expand his holdings in France, where he sees real estate prices continuing to rise. He is also interested in New York, where he is building an exclusive 180-suite hotel on First Avenue near the United Nations, and he owns other properties on the block. ''The market is terrible and I think it is going to get even worse before it turns up again,'' he said.
 
Contrast to Trump
Mr. Johansson's longish hair and deal making make it tempting to dub him Sweden's Donald J. Trump. But the personalities of the two are notably dissimilar. Mr. Johansson lives in a relatively modest apartment, bought his Ferraris as collector's items and does not flash them, and comes across as unpretentious and down to earth.
But he shares Mr. Trump's big ambitions. Had he succeeded in buying all or half of Saab-Scania, he said, he would have sold the company's half interest in Saab Automobile, the other half of which was bought by the General Motors Corporation for $600 million. And he said he would have tried to form an alliance in civil aircraft with Daimler-Benz A.G., the West German company.
He still hopes to buy a major industrial company, he said, not trying to hide his envy of the Wallenbergs. ''They have a tremendous impact,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sven-Olof Johansson is one of a new breed of deal makers who made their fortunes in Sweden's booming stock and real estate markets in the 1980's and are now buying stakes in the country's biggest companies. (Steven Prokesch/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (84%); ERIC.A (STO) (84%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (84%); ATCO.B (STO) (58%); ATCO.A (STO) (58%); SEB.A (STO) (58%); ABJA (FRA) (51%); ABJ (FRA) (51%); ABBN (SWX) (51%); ABB (STO) (51%); ABB (NYSE) (51%); ABB (NSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (51%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (84%); SAAB-SCANIA AB (82%); ATLAS COPCO AB (58%); SKANDINAVISKA ENSKILDA BANKEN AB (58%); SKANDINAVISKA ENSKILDA BANKEN AG (52%); ABB LTD (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SWEDEN

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); REAL ESTATE (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; JOHANSSON, SVEN-OLOF; WALLENBERG FAMILY SVEN-OLOF JOHANSSON (94%); PETER WALLENBERG (90%); 



655 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
15 'Mega-Cities' Joining to Learn From Each Other

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
If you can make it here, the song says, you can make it anywhere.
New York City government has helped pioneer innovations from slippery water, which gushed through fire hoses more efficiently, to ''glassphalt,'' which recycles broken bottles into the stuff of which streets are paved.
Yet New Yorkers are often smugly resistant to adopting ideas that were spawned out-of-town. Broadway has no reservations about importing a play; government has often seemed reluctant to embrace even indigenous programs that work, let alone those that made it anywhere else. 
A city whose largest tangible export is now waste paper and whose leeway for providing routine municipal services, much less frills, has been crimped by declining tax revenue can ill afford to be blinded by boosterism.
In that spirit, representatives from New York and from 14 of the world's other big cities have joined to learn from each other's mistakes, to share the lessons of creative problem-solving and to replicate their successes.
The Mega-Cities Project, based at New York University's Urban Research Center, draws on experiences of grass-roots groups, entrepreneurs and bureaucrats in Bangkok, Beijing, Bombay, Buenos Aires, Lagos, London, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Nairobi, New Delhi, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Tokyo and, beginning this summer, in Moscow.
''Cities have always been the crucible for the advancement of civilization,'' says Dr. Janice E. Perlman, the project's founder and director. ''We're sometimes overpowered by despair rather than finding in cities the seeds for solutions.''
By the millennium, it is estimated, more than half of the world's population will be city dwellers. Dr. Perlman suggests that seemingly diverse metropolitan areas - 23 of which are expected to be home to 10 million or more people each by the year 2000 - have more in common with each other than with their respective hinterlands.
''Moving people around, moving garbage around, housing low-income people and matching people with jobs are universal problems,'' she said. ''Every third-world city has a first-world city in it; every first-world city has a third-world city in it.''
Some catalysts already culled by the Mega-Cities project may seem modest or deceptively simple.
But they represent a bargain, common-sensical approach to problems for which there no longer seem to be panaceas, only mitigation. Among those that seem promising:
* An experimental Brazilian ''surface metro'' system. Bus riders pay to enter an off-the-street loading zone. They board through doors on one side of specially designed buses; exiting passengers leave from the other side.
* A Mexico City self-help program for the homeless. Squatters have been organized to construct their own housing and to recycle garbage into fertilizer.
* A Brazilian network of police station houses staffed exclusively by women. Its purpose is to make the criminal-justice system more sensitive to women who might otherwise be reluctant to lodge charges of rape or abuse.
* A New Delhi system of ''mobile creches.'' The combined schools and day-care centers encamp at construction sites to offer migrant workers' children a continuing education and to free their mothers for jobs or school.
* A Bangkok anti-littering campaign called Magic Eyes. The imaginative, privately financed effort, which combines classroom teaching, television commercials, posters and other tools, targets still-impressionable youngsters with the warning: ''Magic eyes are watching you.''
Other efforts range from citizens' tree-planting programs in Los Angeles to meticulously coordinated nighttime road repairs in Tokyo (commended to New York officials during an exchange program managed by the Fund for the City of New York).
New York City itself has already generated 230 entries for the Mega-Cities index - ideas that might seem commonplace to New Yorkers but are considered revolutionary overseas.
They include glassphalt, the Nehemiah program to build affordable privately financed housing on publicly donated land; the policy role granted to community boards; the New York City Partnership's focus of private resources on public problems, and a Bronx cash-for-trash recycling center, which produces jobs and a cleaner neighborhood.
If financial support is forthcoming, Mega-Cities also hopes to hunt for untested prototypes and to regularly share information on which programs succeed.
''We're trying to find projects that are socially just, ecologically sustainable, economically viable and participatory,'' Dr. Perlman said, ''and then to see if the seeds are transferable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (96%); KENYA (93%); MEXICO (93%); CHINA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); INDIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); NIGERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEGA-CITIES PROJECT; NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; LONDON (ENG); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); NEW DELHI (INDIA); MEXICO CITY (MEX); BOMBAY (INDIA); SAO PAULO (BRAZIL); LAGOS (NIGERIA); BANGKOK (THAILAND); BEIJING (CHINA); BUENOS AIRES (ARGENTINA); NAIROBI (KENYA); RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL); TOKYO (JAPAN); MOSCOW (USSR)

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); FERTILIZERS (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (62%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: ;PERLMAN, JANICE E (DR); ROBERTS, SAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



656 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: The Mandela Visit;
Mandela Assails U.S. Aid to Savimbi

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
On the eve of his meeting with President Bush, Nelson Mandela condemned one of the President's African policies, support for Jonas Savimbi's rightist rebels in Angola.
Speaking to a group of black journalists tonight, Mr. Mandela said that only the United States and South Africa were supporting Mr. Savimbi's guerrillas, ''and we strongly condemn that.''
Mr. Mandela, referring to the possibility that his organization, the African National Congress, will achieve a share of power in the government, then ''of course, we would not tolerate any further support.''
The Bush Administration is expected to bring a request for an additional $8 million to $10 million in aid for Mr Savimbi's group, the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, known as Unita from its initials in Portuguese, for consideration by the Intelligence Commmittees of both houses of Congress in the next few weeks. 
One of Mr. Bush's first foreign policy acts on assuming the Presidency was to send a letter of support to Mr. Savimbi.
 
Huge Turnout in Boston
Today, buoyed by tumultuous receptions in Boston and New York, Mr. Mandela arrived in the capital for a crucial series of meetings with President Bush and other United States officials.
The cheering throngs along the way, Mr. Mandela said as he arrived at National Airport this afternoon, ''have left us with the distinct impression that in this country we have our brothers and sisters who are committed to the fight against racial oppression in our country.''
On Saturday night, the leader of the African National Congress was cheered by a largely white crowd numbering about 250,000 in Boston that gathered along the banks of the Charles River on folding chairs, picnic blankets and even a few canoes for a concert and rally.
Mr. Mandela himself exuberantly danced the toyi-toyi, a traditional African dance used in demonstrations, and pumping a clenched fist into the air to Hugh Masekela's song, repeated throughout the evening, ''Free Nelson Mandela.''
 
Kennedy, Dukakis and Festivity
The area's top public officials, Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis and Mayor Raymond L. Flynn, all of whom have pressed for economic sanctions against South Africa, stood with him on the platform as strips of yellow banners and the African National Congress's green, black and yellow flags waved in the crowd.
His reception in Boston, Mr. Mandela told reporters as he left that city at midday, ''exceeded our wildest dreams. The support has been very warm and very encouraging.''
Mr. Mandela is to meet with President Bush in the White House on Monday morning. Later, he will meet with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and other State Department officials.
On Tuesday, he will publicly press his case for continued, indeed, increased economic sanctions to keep pressure for change on the white South African Government of President F. W. de Klerk.
 
Some Credit to de Klerk
In his remarks on arriving today, Mr. Mandela conceded that concessions made thus far by Mr. de Klerk ''have raised the hope for peace.''
But, he insisted, the Government was yielding ''not because of a change of heart but because of the pressure put on the Government inside the country and by the international community.''
While in other cities politicians have crowded about Mr. Mandela, Washington's most prominent black politican, Mayor Marion Barry, who is on trial on drug charges, was nowhere to be seen.
Organizers privately said that this will continue to be the practice. ''Marion's been very understanding about this,'' one said.
 
Miami's Cuban-Americans Upset
In Miami, where Mr. Mandela will make a brief appearance to give a speech to the union representing state, county and municipal workers on Thursday, the City Commission decided to forgo a welcoming resolution because Cuban-Americans there were angered at his remarks supporting the Cuban leader, Fidel Castro.
This morning, Mr. Mandela spent some private time with his daughter, Zenani Mandela Dlamini, who is married to Prince Thumbumuzi Dlamini of Swaziland. Both are students at Boston University, and Mr. Mandela's wife, Winnie, took an hour out to see their home in Brookline.
However, a daughter by Mr. Mandela's first marriage, Makaziwe Mandela-Amuah, a graduate student at the University of Massachusetts, did not show up for what had been described as a reunion this morning. She has not seen or talked to her father since he has been released.
''I don't know anything about a reunion. There was no reunion on the program. They did send me a program,'' she told The Boston Globe.
 
Winnie Mandela's Day
As Mr. Mandela rested in his hotel room, his wife made an appearance at the nearby Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church, which has had a long history of involvement in liberation movements, since the days slaves used it as a stop on the underground railroad.
''Winnie and Nelson Mandela mean everything to us,'' said Jesse B. Mason, as she waited with other women from the church wearing red carnations. ''We are just overjoyed she would be at our church.''
Because of a delay in the Mandelas' flight to Washington, the program began without Mrs. Mandela, catching the organizers off guard. But within minutes, participants in the all-female program took their turn at the lectern to pay tribute not only to the Mandelas but to all women struggling for equality.
When Effie Barry, the wife of the embattled Mayor, approached the microphone she raised her right hand in a clenched fist. ''Your fight is our fight,'' said Mrs. Barry.
Molly Yard, the president of the National Organization for Women, and other speakers insisted that the United States continue sanctions against the South African Government.
 
Pacing Himself
Mr. Mandela has been dropping appointments as he goes, canceling a number of meetings including some with South African exiles and congress members working here, much to their disappointment.
This morning, Masilo Mabeta, an African National Congress member who went into exile 10 years ago, was pacing the lobby of the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston, holding a sleeping baby, while his two other small sons ran about. They had driven down that morning from Newmarket, N.H.
After two hours, his wife asked if they should just leave. ''No, no, no, no, no.'' Mr. Mabeta said. The family went to the sixth floor where Mr. Mandela and his party were staying but could not get a glimpse of him. They went back to the lobby for several more hours and finally went home without having seen their hero.
''We are just honored that he is here,'' Mr. Mabeta said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Mandela with his wife, Winnie, and members of their family in a hotel room in Boston before they left for Washington. At right were their daughter, Zenani Mandela Dlamini, and at rear was their son-in-law, Prince Thumbumuzi Dlamini. At left was the Prince's brother, Lonkhonklo Dlamini. The Mandela's grandchildren, from left, were Zamaswasi, 10 years old, Zazwe, 10, and Zhinle, 9. (Tessa Frootko Gordon/JB Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ANGOLA (93%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (57%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); WRITERS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 



657 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: China Lets Dissident Leave Haven In U.S. Embassy to Fly to England

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 25

 BODY:
China allowed its most prominent dissident, Fang Lizhi, to leave his refuge in the United States Embassy in Beijing today and board an American military transport plane for a new life in England.
The departure of Mr. Fang and his wife, Li Shuxian, marked the removal of what was generally regarded as the single greatest obstacle to improved ties between the United States and China. The White House welcomed the release as an ''important contribution toward improving our relations.'' 
The development came a month after President Bush recommended extension of China's most-favored-nation trade status and after weeks of intense secret negotiations between Chinese and American representatives. [Page A8.] A Letter of Admission Mr. Fang and Miss Li were allowed to leave the country after writing a letter to the Chinese Government in which they admitted that their views violated the Chinese Constitution and made a somewhat ambiguous pledge not to engage in anti-Chinese activity while abroad. [Texts of the letter and of a statement by Beijing, page A9.] [After changing planes at Elmendorf Air Force Base in Anchorage, Alaska, the couple arrived tonight at an American military base at Upper Heyford in southern England, The Associated Press reported, quoting an Air Force spokesman.] While Fang Lizhi, whose name is pronounced fahng lee-jur (rhyming with burr) was his country's leading advocate of human rights, it is not clear whether his release marks the beginning of a more lenient policy toward ordinary Chinese who played important roles in last year's democracy movement. Many Chinese intellectuals continue to complain of repression, and hundreds or thousands of people remain in prison for conducting peaceful protests.
 
A Leading Astrophysicist
An ebullient man with a disarming habit of laughing when relating the punishments that he endured beginning in 1957, Mr. Fang came to be revered by many university students and intellectuals throughout the country. Partly protected by his international academic reputation as an astrophysicist, he was for several years virtually the only Chinese willing to say openly that Marxism had failed in China and to call for greater democracy.
While he did not play any obvious role in organizing last year's democracy movement, he was regarded by many Chinese students as an inspiration - as an example of a brilliant intellectual who took personal risks out of concern for saving the motherland - and the Chinese leadership accused him of being one of the movement's behind-the-scenes instigators.
Shortly after the army's attack on pro-democracy protesters in June 1989, Mr. Fang and Miss Li, whose name is pronounced lee shu-shyen, fled to the Embassy, and they have been kept out of sight in the compound that includes the American Ambassador's residence. Mr. Fang is said to have remarked that he is an astrophysicist but could not even see the sky. An expert in fundamental questions about the universe and its origins, Mr. Fang is to resume his research in England, possibly at Cambridge University, the British Foreign Office said. He is a close friend and collaborator of Stephen W. Hawking, Cambridge's Lucasian professor of mathematics and author of the book ''A Brief History of Time.''
''In view of the signs of repentance by Fang Lizhi and Li Shuxian and their illness and out of humanitarian considerations, the Beijing Public Security Bureau has decided to allow them to go abroad for medical treatment in line with China's policy of leniency toward those who participated in the disturbances,'' an announcer said near the end of tonight's national television news.
There is no indication that Mr. Fang or Miss Li is seriously ill. But Mr. Fang is believed to have had some heart problems while in the embassy, and he is scheduled to check into a hospital for an examination in England.
 
'The Only Way Out'
In the past, China had said ''the only way out'' for Mr. Fang and Miss Li was for them to plead guilty and submit to Chinese law. It was unclear today exactly what deal was arranged for their release.
The official New China News Agency, in a brief dispatch, said that Mr. Fang and Miss Li had written to the Government and admitted that they opposed what are called the Four Cardinal Principles: the socialist road, the people's democratic dictatorship, leadership of the Communist Party, and Marxism-Leninism and the teachings of Mao Zedong. The letter acknowledged that by opposing these principles, the couple had violated the preamble to the Chinese Constitution.
The agency also said they had asked to go abroad for medical treatment and had promised that after leaving the country they would ''not engage in activities directed against China.''
Mr. Fang and Miss Li, who said they opposed the Four Cardinal Principles because the purpose of those ideas ''is to uphold a political system of class struggle,'' have expressed similar views previously. Likewise, Mr. Fang and Miss Li have never considered themselves opposed to China as a nation, so it should not have been difficult for them to pledge not to engage in anti-China activities.
 
Gentler Treatment Promised
In an apparent reference to the release of Mr. Fang and Miss Li, Prime Minister Li Peng suggested today that China would deal more gently with its dissidents, but he went out of his way to stress that this was not because of foreign sanctions.
''Due to growing political and economic stability in China, the Chinese Government has taken a more lenient policy toward the people who participated in the turmoil last year,'' Mr. Li said, according to paraphrased remarks by the New China News Agency. ''These moves did not result from the pressure from the West.''
The move to England rather than the United States seemed to reflect China's preferences. Beijing is believed to have insisted that Mr. Fang and Miss Li go to a country other than the United States, and Italy and Australia reportedly also were considered.
From what is now known, the authorities seem to have made most of the concessions. The leadership is known in particular to have sought a much more extensive self-criticism and acknowledgement of guilt, as well as a pledge not to criticize the Government from abroad.
Beijing's concessions may have been intended to gain support for the extension of most-favored-nation trade status for China. Mr. Bush has already recommended the extension, but some members of Congress have vowed a fight on the issue. The release also makes it more likely that the seven major industrialized nations will agree at their summit meeting next month to resume lending to China.
The departure of Mr. Fang and Miss Li comes about a week after the expulsion to Taiwan of a folk singer, Hou Dejian, who after the crackdown had inherited the mantle of the most outspoken critic of the Government. Linda Jaivin, a China specialist at the Contemporary China Center at Australian National University, said in a telephone interview that the authorities probably were trying to get rid of their critics before the Asian Games are held in Beijing in September.
Mr. Fang and Miss Li, who are both 54 years old, met in the early 1950's at Beijing University, where they were both outstanding students in the physics department. Both were chosen to join the Communist Party, but both were then expelled in 1957 during the anti-rightist campaign.
After the death of Mao and the rise of Deng Xiaoping to power at the end of the 1970's, Mr. Fang and Miss Li automatically regained their party membership.
 
Protests at His University
In 1986, students at his university -the University of Science and Technology, in the central Chinese city of Hefei - set off a nationwide wave of student protests, prompting a brief crackdown, and Mr. Fang was expelled again from the Communist Party.
Transferred to Beijing in early 1987 so the central authorities could keep a closer eye on him, Mr. Fang began to give interviews in which he said publicly what many intellectuals said privately. ''Marxism is no longer of much use,'' he told an interviewer in the spring of that year.
Miss Li was less prominent, but as an associate professor at Beijing University, she also had considerable contact with students and was no less biting in her criticism of the Communist Party and in her demands for change.
Mr. Fang and Miss Li were at the center of a major embarrassment in February 1989, when Mr. Bush visited Beijing and invited them to a banquet. Chinese security officials forcibly prevented the couple from attending.
 
Fear for Their Lives
Some intellectuals were critical of the couple for fleeing to the United States Embassy after the crackdown, citing the historic Chinese sensitivity to foreigners treating themselves as above national law. But most people interviewed casually about the subject over the last year expressed sympathy, saying Mr. Fang and Miss Li feared for their lives and felt they had no choice.
While in hiding in the American Embassy, Mr. Fang and Miss Li continued their scientific work and conducted a vigorous correspondence with friends abroad. Mr. Fang also wrote one essay, to accept in abstentia the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award.
''Like all members of the human race, the Chinese are born with a body and a brain, with passions and a soul,'' Mr. Fang wrote. ''Therefore they can and must enjoy the same inalienable rights, dignity and liberty as other human beings.''
He added, ''Remember that in the current climate of terror, it may well be that those who are most terrified are those who have just finished killing their fellow human beings.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fang Lizhi, China's most prominent advocate of human rights, and his wife, Li Shuxian, who have been living in the American Embassy in Beijing, were allowed to leave yesterday to come to the United States. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); ARMIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); REFUGEES (71%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; FANG LIZHI; LI SHUXIAN GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



658 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: THE MANDELA VISIT;
MANDELA DECLINES TO RULE OUT FORCE

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Nelson Mandela told President Bush today that he could not completely renounce the use of violence and armed struggles to achieve racial equality in South Africa. But he said the African National Congress would cease hostilities once the South African Government accepted all conditions for talks on a new constitution.
President Bush assured Mr. Mandela, who wants foreign powers to keep up the pressure of sanctions on the Government of President F. W. de Klerk, that American sanctions would not be lifted until all the conditions set by Congress for doing so were met. Those conditions include the complete lifting of the state of emergency in South Africa and the release of about a thousand political prisoners.
Just as democracy has liberated Eastern Europe, Mr. Bush said in a welcoming ceremony on the sunny South Lawn, ''so, too, South Africa's time will come.'' 
After a three-hour meeting with President Bush, including a working lunch at the White House, Mr. Mandela said that the two men had narrowed their differences and that ''even at the White House our mission succeeded beyond our wildest expectations.''
On the third leg of his tour of the United States, the 71-year-old Mr. Mandela moved from a celebratory mood to a more businesslike one. Although he is not a head of state, he was honored with the South Lawn ceremony and with a White House luncheon, events usually accorded only to foreign leaders.
Mr. Mandela, who is deputy President of the African National Congress, the leading anti-apartheid coalition in South Africa, also met with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d at the State Department and with labor leaders at A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters here. He attended a dinner at the Senate organized by Senators David L. Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, and Terry Sanford, Democrat of North Carolina.
 
'The Hopes of Millions'
In his opening statement at the White House, President Bush described Mr. Mandela, who spent 27 1/2 years in prison for his advocacy of black majority rights, as ''a man who embodies the hopes of millions.'' But the President, who tries customarily to please both sides in disputes, was eager to give a pat on the back to President de Klerk as well.
As Mr. Mandela stared straight ahead without expression, Mr. Bush praised the South African Government for steps ''to expand the rights and freedoms of South Africans.''
Mr. Bush called apartheid ''repugnant'' but added that all sides in the South African struggle should renounce violence and repression.
''In the words of the great Martin Luther King Jr., 'Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred,' '' Mr. Bush said.
When it was his turn, Mr. Mandela politely but firmly noted that when a repressive government intensifies oppression, ''the people have no alternative but to resort to violence.''
''We made it clear that once the government removed all the obstacles to negotiation, we would consider the cessation of hostilities,'' Mr. Mandela said.
He said that for negotiations to begin, the South African Government must release 1,000 political prisoners, return 20,000 political exiles, repeal what he called repressive legislation and end the state of emergency in Natal province, the only province where it is still in existence.
 
'We Are Hopeful'
''We are hopeful that in our next meeting these obstacles will be completely removed'' with the exception of the legislation repeal, Mr. Mandela said.
Mr. Mandela said the African National Congress, which was outlawed for years until President de Klerk lifted the ban in February, has ''a total commitment to peace'' as long as the South African Government continues to move toward equality. But if the Government reneges, the commitment to peace can be revoked, he indicated.
''If we are forced to resort to violence,'' Mr. Mandela said, as he stood at Mr. Bush's side, ''it is because we have no other alternative whatsoever.'' He said that the group had scaled down its military operations since 1986 to promote negotiations.
Mr. Mandela suggested that the reason that President Bush had made such a request about violence was because he did not understand the situation and had not yet had ''a proper briefing.''
President Bush did not seem offended. Pumping the South African leader's hand as the two went off to their meeting, Mr. Bush marveled at his guest's ability to speak off the cuff, with his deep voice rolling out ''r's'' and his arms resting quietly at his side.
''No notes!'' exclaimed Mr. Bush, who had relied on index cards and his usual range of hand gestures. ''That's wonderful!''
Mr. Bush has been eager to reward President de Klerk for the changes in South Africa, and the Administration has noted that the South African Government is close to meeting conditions under which it could ask Congress to relax or lift the sanctions.
Today, Mr. Bush said, ''Our sanctions have been designed to support change, and when the conditions laid down in our law have been met, then and only then, we will consider, in consulation with Congress, whether a change in course will promote further progress through peaceful negotiations.''
As Mr. Mandela made his remarks on the South Lawn, a crowd of several hundred looked on, sometimes applauding. Mr. Mandela, wearing a blue suit and silvery blue tie, waved, and Winnie Mandela, who wore a black-and-gold traditional African dress with a wrap-around skirt with matching head wrap. raised a clenched fist in salute.
After a three-hour meeting with the President, including lunch, Mr. Mandela said that their differences had narrowed and he had been able to explain to Mr. Bush that violence was ''no longer an issue.''
''From 1986, when we launched this initiative and started urging the government to sit down and talk to us, we deliberately scaled down our armed operations in order to contribute toward an atmosphere which is conducive to a negotiated settlement,'' he said.
 
Mandela's Conditions
Assistant Secretary of State Herman Cohen said that Mr. Bush had encouraged Mr. Mandela to ''go all the way'' and renounce violence, but that Mr. Mandela had been noncommittal. He did pledge to suspend hostilities as long as negotiations continued with the Government in Pretoria.
''The President encouraged him to go beyond that, to renounce the armed struggle,'' Mr. Cohen said.
Mr. Mandela said at a news conference that to get negotiations under way, the South African Government must release 1,000 political prisoners, return 20,000 political exiles, repeal ''repressive'' legislation and lift the state of emergency in Natal.
''We are hopeful that in our next meeting these obstacles will be completely removed,'' said Mr. Mandela, who added that he knew that the repeal legislation would take some time.
Even though Mr. Mandela garnered some criticism from Capitol Hill today for his support of Fidel Castro of Cuba, Yasir Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization and Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, his visits to the White House and State Department were cordial.
 
Channel for Assistance
Mr. Cohen said Mr. Mandela had asked for money for the African National Congress. Mr. Bush said that no money would go directly to any political organization, but that the South African group could receive money channeled through the National Endowment for Democracy, an autonomous agency funded by the Government.
One of the conditions for this money would be a suspension of violence in the context of negotiations. About $32 million has already been allocated by Congress and $10 million more would be available to the South Africans if they met the conditions.
Although Mr. Mandela said at his news conference that Mr. Bush appeared ''sympathetic'' to his request for money, Administration officials said no final commitments were imminent because the Administration was ''at loggerheads'' with Mr. Mandela on ''the role of violence'' in that country, because of the South African leader's strong statement on the South Lawn.
''There are narrowing differences on the issue of violence,'' said an Administration official, ''But they need to continue to be examined by both sides.''
 
Criticism Over Savimbi
Mr. Mandela had criticized the United States to a group of journalists on Sunday night on the issue of aid to the Angolan guerrilla leader, Jonas Savimbi. Today, Mr. Mandela and Mr. Bush agreed that this was an area of disagreement that they could not immediately narrow. The American President also was at odds with Mr. Mandela on his support of Cuba, Libya and the Palestine Liberation Organization.
But Mr. Mandela said he was encouraged by the meeting. In the South Lawn ceremony, he said the black majority in South Africa was grateful to the United States for imposing sanctions and for denouncing apartheid. ''To receive the support of any government is, in our situation, something of enormous importance,'' Mr. Mandela said. ''But to receive the support of the government of the United States of America, the leader of the West, is something beyond words.''
On Capitol Hill, a leading Congressional supporter of Mr. Mandela said he regretted the South African's need to continue to praise the leaders of Cuba, Libya and the P.L.O.
''I wish he had not said those things, very frankly,'' said Rep. Howard Wolpe, a Democrat of Michigan, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Africa. ''They were not very helpful.''
Representative William Dannemeyer, Republican of California, said that because of Mr. Mandela's revolutionary past, it was ''a national disgrace'' that he was invited to address Congress.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and his wife, Barbara, with Nelson Mandela and his wife, Winnie, at the White House. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Winnie Mandela being hugged by Thelma Toler, a Government employee, when Mrs. Mandela came over to greet the crowd after the welcoming ceremony on the South Lawn at the White House. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); Part of the crowd waiting at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. building in Washington for Nelson Mandela to arrive for a meeting with labor leaders. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE WORSTEDS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON SPINNERS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (85%); SOUTH AFRICAN FLOCK LTD (85%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (91%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (91%); AFL-CIO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; SOUTH AFRICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; MANDELA, NELSON; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); DAN BOREN (58%); 



659 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Science Fiction Nears Reality: Pocket Phone for Global Calls

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The small and portable telephone that can be used anywhere on earth has been a staple of science fiction and a Holy Grail of telephone engineers for several decades. Today Motorola Inc. will become the first company in the world to announce plans to build and operate such a phone system.
Company officials say Motorola intends to charge less than $3,500 for a 25-ounce handset that would fit in an overcoat pocket and could allow the user to make and receive calls from the North Pole to Antarctica. Current portable phones can be used only where radio antennas on towers and office buildings are close enough to relay the signal. They are of no use in many rural areas of the United States or outside major cities in the rest of the world.
Motorola's system, which it hopes to be operating in six years, calls for the company to supplement conventional radio antennas with a constellation of 77 satellites that would relay the calls, which would cost an estimated $1 to $3 a minute, said Durrell W. Hillis, general manager of the company's satellite communications division. 
 
Broad Use Expected
Potential users of the handsets are expected to include vacationers, business people and engineers traveling in places where phone service is not available or where an international call can take hours to complete. Other users would include passengers aboard ships and planes, and disaster relief crews working in places where all other communications had been disrupted. On planes, the Motorola system would compete with a system offered by the GTE Corporation, but would have the advantage of being able to receive calls.
All of the technologies for the system have already been developed and need only to be adapted for use aboard satellites, Mr. Hillis said. But the plan faces significant financial and regulatory obstacles. Motorola estimates that putting the system in service will cost $2.3 billion over six years and is seeking partners to help in the project. But space experts caution that the economics of a project like Motorola's are harder to forecast than the technical issues.
Other companies have found that the initial investment and the operating costs of satellite systems tend to exceed expectations, said Kenneth A. Homon, the former vice president of planning for Satellite Business Systems, a failed effort by the International Business Machines Corporation to offer satellite-based telephone communications between fixed sites.
And while Motorola has an advantage in developing a satellite system for portable telephones because it is the world's largest and most technologically advanced producer of such telephones and equipment, it could face competition. The American Telephone and Telegraph Company declined to discuss whether it had any plans to offer such service, but is said to have had some discussions along these lines with other companies.
But Motorola said it has filed patent applications in 55 countries to prevent other companies from developing similar systems. And it has agreed to work with three organizations that control over much of the earth's surface the broadcast frequencies needed for the system.
 
Handsets to Be Licensed
Motorola has determined that at least 77 low-orbiting satellites will be needed to insure that one is within a line of sight anywhere on the planet and that a second comes over the horizon before the first disappears. The company plans in 1994 to begin launching inexpensive 700-pound satellites, up to 11 per rocket, that are built to last five years; it will own the satellites but will license the right to build handsets that use them.
Motorola has named the project Iridium, after the element iridium, which has 77 electrons orbiting the atomic nucleus.
Although calls could be made from one handset to another, Motorola expects that most users would place calls to conventional wire-line telephones or cellular phones served by ground radio towers.
Motorola says it will need at least 700,000 users to break even. After having consulted many international organizations about the proposed venture, company officials forecast that the system could attract as many as five million subscribers worldwide paying at least $100 a month by the year 2000.
 
Partners Sought
While Motorola plans to build much of the system itself, including almost all of the electronics, it is looking for partners to help finance Iridium and to operate it. The company is negotiating with British Telecom in London and companies in Japan, Australia, and Hong Kong, Mr. Hillis said.
Besides the commercial challenges, Iridium will need the permission of many governments to receive calls from their soil.
''Whether it'll be delivered on time, I'm not sure,'' said Michael J. Zuliani, the president of Telesat Mobile Inc., a Canadian satellite company that has agreed to work with Motorola on the system. The technical issues represent ''a challenge, but we're up to it,'' he said.
Mr. Zuliani said that A.T.&T. had also approached Telesat Mobile to discuss a possible alliance to establish satellite-based mobile communications, but that the discussions had not been detailed and did not result in any agreement. Telesat Mobile controls the most readily usable microwave frequencies for such a system in Canada.
 
An Electronics Wizard
The technical problems involved in Iridium's construction may be the smallest of the obstacles facing Motorola, analysts said. Motorola is the nation's third-largest electronics company and the world's largest producer of cellular telephone equipment, and is known for its technological wizardry in developing mobile communications products.
The company envisions Iridium as a worldwide cellular telephone system that supplements conventional radio antennas. Cellular telephones acquired that name because the service areas are divided into cells a few miles across, each with a low-power radio transmitter. A motorist moving from one area to the next is automatically transferred from one transmitter to the next, usually without interruption because computers tell the transmitter when to pass along a call to the next transmitter.
Each Iridium satellite will cover 37 cells on earth, said Bary R. Bertiger, the chief engineer and assistant general manager of Motorola's satellite communications division. Each cell will be 400 miles across and have a capacity of 336 simultaneous conversations if Motorola uses only those microwave frequencies already set aside for sea-to-shore and air-to-ground satellite communications; that number could be increased substantially if other frequencies are obtained. Because of the limited capacity, the handsets will also be compatible with terrestrial cellular service and are intended to send signals to satellites only in remote areas, he said. #3 1/2-Inch Antenna The handsets will be 7 1/2 inches long and thicker than conventional handsets, with a 3 1/2 inch antenna. Sending a signal to a low-orbit satellite requires a tiny fraction of the power to send a signal to current communications satellites, which orbit 50 times higher above the earth's surface.
Motorola's strategic electronics division, which Mr. Hillis used to run, has produced communications equipment for virtually all NASA space programs. The company's equipment helped relay the first words from the Moon to the earth in 1969.
Motorola has not assembled a working handset because none of the necessary satellites have been launched, but the company says it has no doubt that it can mass produce the handsets, Mr. Bertiger said. It is common practice for Motorola and other communications companies not to miniaturize components for working handsets until the equipment to use them has been built..
 
Confident on Costs
Motorola has held discussions with three companies that build satellites and with satellite launching companies like the Orbital Sciences Corporation in Fairfax, Va., he added, and has confidence in its cost estimates. Depending on the rockets chosen, the satellites will be launched individually or in groups of 11.
Regulatory decisions will be crucial in determining the number of subscribers that Iridium can reach. It will require certain frequencies and will need permission from a number of governments to receive - although not to send - calls from their soil, Mr. Hillis said.
Motorola has signed joint study agreements with three major institutions that control the necessary frequencies over much of the earth's surface: the International Maritime Satellite Organization, better known as Inmarsat; the American Mobile Satellite Corporation in Washington, which controls these frequencies over the United States, and Telesat Mobile in Ottawa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Durrell W. Hillis holds a prototype of the 25-ounce handset that Motorola intends to sell for its new planet-wide portable phone system. Behind him is a one-eighth scale model of the 77 satellites Motorola intends to orbit to relay calls on the system. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Diagram (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (94%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); IBMC (BRU) (62%); IBM (NYSE) (62%); IBM (LSE) (62%); T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ANTARCTICA (57%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (94%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (62%); AT&T INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITES SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (67%); PATENTS (63%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (50%); DISASTER RELIEF (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH DURRELL W HILLIS (58%); 



660 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
China allowed a dissident to leave. Fang Lizhi was permitted to leave his refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing and board an American transport plane for a new life in England. Page A1

 
Behind the scenes: diplomatic poker A8

Freed Chinese dissidents to do scientific work in Britain A8

 
Leaders of the European Community agreed to set the 12-nation organization on a path toward what they call political union, but they left it to coming negotiations to determine just how much sovereignty each country will have to surrender. A6

 
East Germany's currency union with West Germany, which will go into effect on July 1, has begun to bring new life to the country's drab street scenes - a hallmark of Communist towns because of the absence of free commerce. A6 
 
 
Cheney says Western aid to Moscow is a mistake A6

 
A Soviet chemistry teacher has emerged as the country's jilted apostle of the Bolshevik true faith. Nina Andreyeva speaks of Stalin with reverence and praises the planned economy as an achievement of human ingenuity. A6

 
An explosion and fire in London devastated a men's social club that is frequented by members of Britain's governing Conservative Party. At least seven people were injured. A7

 
International relief workers in Iran reported confusion and some instances of chaos in the rescue effort after the devastating earthquake. A similar description was given by Western diplomats. A10

 
New tremor in quake region crushes a wisp of hope A10

 
Canada's national Government and the authorities in Quebec are preparing to fashion a new relationship, though no one in Ottawa or in Quebec City is prepared to say where the approaches will lead. A3

 
Quebec official tells Americans investment is safe A3

Central Americans urging war refugee aid A5

Tokyo journal: Japan's princess bride A4

 
NATIONAL A12-21
 
The sensitive ''right to die'' issue was broached by the Supreme Court for the first time. Eight Justices said in a ruling that a person whose wishes are clearly known has a constitutional right to the discontinuance of life-sustaining treatment. A1

 
A teen-age girl planning an abortion may be required to notify both parents, the Supreme Court ruled, as long as the law provides the alternative of a judicial hearing for pregnant girls who do not want to inform their parents of their decision. A1

 
States rally for more power A17

Fruitless debate on flag amendment in Senate A17

 
Nelson Mandela met President Bush and told him that he could not completely renounce the use of violence and armed struggle to achieve racial equality in South Africa. A1

 
A showdown on civil rights legislation is postponed A14

 
Reform Judaism will admit rabbis who are acknowledged, sexually active homosexuals. The action places Reform Judaism among the handful of Christian and Jewish denominations that officially accept gay clergy as a matter of national policy. A1

 
The small and portable telephone that can be used anywhere on earth has been a Holy Grail of engineers for decades. Today Motorola Inc. will become the first company in the worldto announce plans to build and operate such a phone system. A1

 
A new policy on radioactive waste that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission plans to announce Wednesday would allow some waste to be dis posed of in municipal dumps or ordinary incinerators or even be recycled into consumer products. A12

 
A Florida sheriff has become famous for pressing a case against the music of the rap group 2 Live Crew. But in South Florida, he was already renowned as a law officer who threw a long shadow and had little patience for those who crossed him. A12

 
Are attitudes on taxes shifting? When voters in California approved higher taxes on gasoline, some analysts said the vote signaled a new willingness to pay more for services. But a week later, North Dakotans rejected higher taxes for education. A16

 
Witness tells about sexual encounter with Barry A15

U.S. seizing leases of people suspected in illegal drug deals A16

Murderer is executed in Arkansas A21

Provincetown journal: A dispute over a berth A12

 
REGIONAL B1-6
 
The agency that licenses teachers and other educational employees in New York City is being torn apart by allegations that it rushed through a test to assure job security for some supervisors just as it was about to go out of business. A1

 
Nine lose Queens school board posts B4

 
A graduation ceremony at P.S. 94 in the Bronx was held last Thursday. It was just one of many final events leading to tomorrow - the last day of school. B1

 
A poll of attitudes in New York City has found that six months after David N. Dinkins was inaugurated as mayor, black residents are less pessimistic than white or Hispanic residents about the city's future. B1

 
Are black men imperiled? B3

 
Last summer's attack on a jogger in Central Park by a group of youths was described in graphic detail by a Manhattan prosecutor in her opening statement. B1

 
Vento jury considers charges in Bensonhurst case B2

Prosecutor uses fiery statement at Marcos trial B2

 
The police released a sketch of a man who may be the Zodiac gunman. They also revealed that they were looking for a man who might have seen the gunman shoot his latest victim - a 30-year-old homeless man - in Central Park on Thursday. B1

 
Inmate is guilty in the slayings of two detectives B3

The struggle to revise hospital reimbursements B3

Fewer subways found on time at peak of rush B6

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SCIENCE TIMES
 
Science explores the chemical roots of self-medication in addicts C1

Japan's hopes in space exploration C1

Who were the first riders? New clue from the horse's mouth C1

Math by mail arouses a frenzy in academia C1

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Two Elvis Presleys, in London C13

Jim Hall's music C15

Music: Shorter and Nascimento C14

Word and Image: ''Separate Hours'' C18

 
FASHION PAGE B8

 
With a designing eye to resort time
Patterns
 
OBITUARIES B7
Mollie Moon, founder of National Urban League Guild
 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Mets beat Cardinals, 3-2 B9

Steinbrenner going with youth B10

Finally, Jays lose at Fenway B10

Basketball: Knicks give Bianchi contract extension B13

Columns: Anderson on Zembriski B9

Golf: Zahringer fails to make cut B13

Soccer: Irish team advances B9

 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A22

 
AIDS and misdirected rage
Threats to a woman's liberty
Freedom for two Chinese
Better news from Israel
 
Letters A22

 
Anthony Lewis: Congress was right A23

Flora Lewis: Another European watershed A23

Nicolaus Mills: 90's - the payback decade A23

Robert A. Bernstein: Family values and gay rights A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GERMANY (88%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BRITAIN A8 (63%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (85%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); REFUGEES (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); LEGISLATION (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); ABORTION (60%); MONETARY UNIONS (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



661 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Quebec and Ottawa Forage for a New Relationship

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, June 25

 BODY:
With the collapse of a deal that would have given special constitutional status to Quebec, the national Government and its provincial counterpart in Quebec City have begun to develop a new working relationship, although no one in either capital is prepared to say where it may lead.
Premier Robert Bourassa of Quebec said today that he expected a ''period of reflection'' over the province's future in Canada to end next March, when Quebec's ruling Liberal Party is to hold a convention and adopt a new constitutional program.
Many in Canada expect that program to involve a far-reaching loosening of the Canadian confederation, possibly a pursuit by Quebec of a form of political sovereignty that would allow it to maintain economic ties with the rest of Canada.
But in the meantime, Mr. Bourassa has made it clear that his Government intends to approach Ottawa less as a province dealing with a national Government than as an equal partner with common interests. 
 
A More Relaxed View
Although the annual St. Jean-Baptiste parade through Montreal's streets turned into a march for independence today, with some in the crowd trampling on Canadian flags, Canadians generally seemed to be taking a more relaxed view of the failure of the constitutional accord.
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney had warned of serious economic consequences if the pact were not ratified, but the financial markets took the development in stride, with the Canadian dollar slipping only slightly today against the United States currency.
Helping to ease some of the strain were remarks by Mr. Bourassa, who indicated that he intends to make no further challenge to the province's constitutional status before his party completes its review.
But the Quebec Premier continued to suggest that Canada was unlikely ever to be offered a settlement as ''open-minded and flexible'' as the one it had rejected. The major concession by the other nine provinces would have been a constitutional amendment designating Quebec as a ''distinct society,'' but two provinces, Manitoba and Newfoundland, withheld the unanimous consent required before a Saturday deadline.
 
Halt to Meetings of the 10
The first step in remolding the relationship between the federal Government and Quebec was signaled on Saturday, when Mr. Bourassa announced that the province would no longer routinely attend the so-called first ministers' conferences in which the leaders of the central Government and the 10 provinces decide issues of national importance.
Mr. Bourassa said his Government would in the future deal with such issues only in direct contacts with the national Government. Quebec will also be seeking ''additional powers'' on questions of immigration, communications and labor, he said, as part of ''the preparation of our future.''
To many here in the capital, the remarks suggested that Mr. Bourassa is subtly aligning himself with what is known as the two-nation concept of Canada, which envisions a partnership between predominantly French-speaking Quebec and an ''English'' Canada comprising the other nine provinces.
This view has historically been at odds with the prevailing vision of the English-speaking provinces and of traditional federalists in Quebec like former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. They have viewed Canada as a country of 10 broadly equal provinces, with a national Government representing the interests of all citizens.
 
Mulroney Accepts Quebec's Stand
Although leaders of the national Government have in the past been wary of anything implying a special relationship with Quebec, Mr. Mulroney quickly accepted Mr. Bourassa's stand. The Prime Minister's chief aide on constitutional matters, Senator Lowell Murray, described Quebec's position as ''pretty moderate and constructive under the circumstances.''
As if to emphasize the national Government's readiness to accommodate the province, Mr. Mulroney told reporters in Quebec over the weekend that he had spoken with Mr. Bourassa and ''made important progress'' in turning over to the Quebec government some powers concerning immigration.
For opponents of the constitutional amendment that died over the weekend, Mr. Bourassa's latest moves seemed to confirm their fears of what designating Quebec as a ''distinct society'' would have meant. Nothing in the amendment ever specified what was meant by that phrase. Nor were any limits set in how far Quebec might have gone in seeking additional powers.
The uncertainty undermined the amendment's prospects in English-speaking Canada. While Mr. Mulroney argued that the amendment would not affect the powers of the national Government, Mr. Bourassa and his ministers had predicted that they would assume significant new authority from Ottawa.
 
Doing Without the Accord
In his remarks over the weekend, Mr. Bourassa made it clear that Quebec intends to seek those additional powers without the benefit of the amendment, first of all by seeking some ''administrative'' arrangements with the Mulroney Government.
In another expression of his sympathy with Quebec over the collapse of the accord, Mr. Mulroney said that he was canceling all of his meetings with the 10 premiers, including one scheduled for August in Winnipeg, the capital of Manitoba.
He acknowledged that indefinitely postponing the meetings would mean halting progress on issues that are considered crucial by the rest of Canada, including demands for reform of the Canadian Senate and for broader rights for Indians and Eskimos.
Some of Mr. Mulroney's aides suggested privately that Indian leaders in Manitoba should have foreseen this blow when they blocked passage of the accord containing constitutional concessions to Quebec.
There has been speculation that Newfoundland may be punished for its role in killing the accord by a further delay in the national Government's support for a $4 billion development project in the Hibernia oilfield off the coast of the relatively poor island province.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Quebecers favoring independence from Canada waving provincial flags yesterday in the annual St. Jean-Baptiste parade in Montreal. (Shaney Komulaninen for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (79%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F BRIAN MULRONEY (55%); 



662 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Quebec Official Tells Americans Investment in the Province Is Safe

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The Quebec provincial Government made a special effort yesterday to reassure American investors that the French-speaking province is a safe place for their money, despite the new uncertainty over Quebec's status in the Canadian federation.
The reassurance came from John Ciaccia, Quebec's Minister of International Affairs, who told investment bankers and corporate executives in New York that ''in terms of the economy, there really is no reason for Quebec to change what it has been doing.''
Among other gestures, Mr. Ciaccia was the host at a luncheon at the Americas Society in Manhattan at which he said Quebec remained dependent on markets in the United States and in neighboring Ontario. He said Quebec would still pursue an aggressive policy of increasing exports to the United States, including exports of its abundant hydroelectric power to New York and other states. 
The minister essentially brought the same calming message that Robert Bourassa, Quebec's Premier, had issued on Saturday, hours after the Meech Lake accord had failed to win ratification by all of Canada's nine other provinces. The accord would have recognized Quebec as a distinct society within Canada.
 
A Stronger Canadian Dollar
The bond, stock and currency markets also reacted yesterday as if the Meech Lake accord had been expected to fail. The Canadian dollar strengthened slightly from last Friday, to 84.95 United States cents. The prices of bonds issued by the Province of Quebec and by Hydro-Quebec, the huge hydroelectrical company owned by the province, closed essentially unchanged, and the Toronto Stock Exchange index fell just 16.56 points, to 3,474.16.
''The expectation that Meech Lake would fail was already so built into the market psychology that not much was likely to happen,'' said Robert Minion of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
But interest rates on the $60 billion in Quebec public bonds have risen by less than a percentage point above what they would have been if the Meech Lake controversy had never occurred, in the view of market experts. They now trade at nearly a percentage point above similar United States Treasury securities. The 10-year Quebec bond closed yesterday with a yield of about 9.45 percent.
 
Quebec's Credit Reaffirmed
Separately, Moody's Investors Service Inc., the bond-rating agency, issued a statement reaffirming the credit rating for Quebec Province, which has $27 billion in bonds outstanding, and for Hydro-Quebec, with $23 billion in publicly held debt, a big chunk of it in the United States.
The high-grade Aa3 rating has been in effect since 1986, and William Streeter, a Canadian specialist at Moody's, said, ''The province is on target with its financial objectives and its budget deficit has been shrinking.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (97%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: HYDRO-QUEBEC (95%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (65%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (63%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAS SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; FRENCH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (88%); CURRENCIES (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); BOND ISSUES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS JOHN CIACCIA (57%); 



663 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Cheney Says Western Aid to Moscow Is a Mistake

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said today that it would be a mistake for Western nations to provide major economic assistance to Moscow because such aid would subsidize the Soviet military.
The West German Government announced on Friday that it would extend about $3 billion in bank credits to help bolster the Kremlin's faltering economic reforms. President Francois Mitterrand of France also suggested last week that Western aid would help Moscow deal with desperate economic problems. 
Although Mr. Cheney did not specifically criticize any nation, he assailed the idea of using economic aid to prop up Soviet reforms. His comments were generally consistent with current Administration policy but more pointed than remarks made by President Bush.
Mr. Bush indicated last week that the United States was not planning a major aid package, but he did not invoke the specter of the Soviet military.
 
A Growing Debate
Mr. Cheney's comments add to a growing debate in the West over aid to the Soviet Union. A senior Administration official said the issue would be taken up at the NATO summit meeting next week in London.
Meeting with reporters, Mr. Cheney argued that Moscow is still spending ''enormous amounts of its national wealth on military hardware'' despite a decline last year in its overall military spending. It is an argument that the Defense Secretary has made repeatedly in seeking to head off Congressional moves for sharp reductions in American military spending.
''If you get the West in the business of providing economic assistance while they are still engaged in this massive military expenditure, to some extent you are subsidizing that,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''I do not think that is very good policy.''
In their annual report to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, the C.I.A. and the Defense Intelligence Agency estimated that Moscow had cut military spending by 4 to 5 percent last year, the first such reduction since Mikhail S. Gorbachev became the Soviet leader. Mr. Gorbachev has said that Moscow plans to reduce military spending by 14.2 percent by January 1991.
 
A Pledge to Keep Cutting
The Soviet leader's personal adviser on military matters, Marshal Sergei F. Akhromeyev, recently told a Bush Administration official that Moscow would achieve the cuts by January and might even make greater reductions over that period. But even after such cuts, Soviet military spending will remain substantial.
Mr. Cheney argued today that providing economic assistance to the Soviet Union would ease pressure on the Kremlin to scale back the military. Such aid might also enable Moscow to delay painful economic reforms, he said, by temporarily improving the lot of Soviet consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (88%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); TRENDS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (93%); 



664 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Disposal of Mild Radioactive Waste To be Less Restricted in New Policy

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Mildly radioactive waste could be disposed of in municipal dumps or ordinary incinerators or even recycled into consumer products, under a new policy that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, plans to announce tomorrow.
Under current rules, most waste with detectable levels of radiation must be handled with special precautions and shipped to one of three licensed landfills in the country. The new policy would classify as ''below regulatory concern'' materials like gloves of laboratory workers, parts from decommissioned power plants and the carcasses of laboratory animals after experiments in which radioactive tracer elements were used.
Environmental groups and some scientists say that adopting a uniform policy is unwise and could result in public exposure to radiation if waste is recycled into toys, jewelry and other common objects. The Environmental Protection Agency says the new policy is too lenient and plans to issue a rule in two years that could override portions of it, adding stricter criteria on the maximum permissible dose from material recycled or disposed of without controls. 
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission says that the new policy will allow Federal and state inspectors to concentrate on more highly radioactive materials, resulting in increased safety. The policy would also cover how much radiation could remain after a nuclear plant is retired, which will be a common activity in decades to come.
 
More Time for 'Real Problems'
Kenneth M. Carr, chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, has made the policy a high priority. ''If we are able to establish a list of things that we don't need to worry about as regulators, this would obviously give us more time to worry about - and deal with -real problems,'' he said in a speech this year to the American Nuclear Society, which includes industry and academic experts. If some activities carry a risk that is acceptably low, he said, it would be wasteful to add regulation to make it safer. ''Why pay for something one doesn't need?'' he said.
But he added that the new policy was sure to face opposition. ''We already have one strike against us,'' he said. ''The general public isn't comfortable with the notion of radioactivity.''
But opponents say that the commission is taking the wrong approach. ''They're making decisions about how to deal with radioactive waste on an economic basis, and not on grounds on what would be best for public health and safety,'' said Jonathan Becker of Public Citizen, an environmental group founded by Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate.
Much of the argument comes down to philosophy, in a field in which it is assumed that no exposure is so small that it is harmless. In an early draft of the new policy, the commission said that an activity that increases the risk of death by one in 100,000 would be ''of little concern to most members of society.'' But, Public Citizen pointed out, if this were extrapolated to the entire population of the United States, it would come to 2,500 deaths.
 
Ambivalence in Nuclear Industry
Public Citizen and other groups have also expressed fear that once waste generators are allowed to send some material to municipal landfills without controls, it will be impossible to know what they are sending.
Experts say the policy could end the regulation of 30 percent of the waste volume, although it would contain under 1 percent of the radioactivity.
The nuclear utility industry, which is an intended beneficiary of the proposed policy, is ambivalent. It already has the right, under a 1985 law regulating low level waste, to petition the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for permission to dispose of slightly radioactive material in unregulated or less-regulated ways, but no utility has done so, in part for fear of public criticism.
''The proposal has a lot of technical merit,'' said Michael A. Mullen, a spokesman for the Duke Power Corporation, which operates seven nuclear reactors, ''but we also realize there are a lot of political and public relations considerations.''
In addition, said Mr. Mullen, the policy might not save much money, because licensed burial sites have high fixed costs. If less waste was dumped there, the cost per cubic foot would rise, he said.
 
Some Special Cases
Duke, however, has successfully petitioned North Carolina and South Carolina to bury two categories of waste inside the fence at its reactors. One covers filters that have accumulated small amounts of radioactivity and pieces of lightly contaminated metal. The other is sewage sludge from the plant, which has trace amounts of radioactive elements not found in municipal sewage, he said.
And in Texas, the Bureau of Radiation Control has allowed some radioactive materials that decay in a few months to go to sanitary landfills.
The Conference of radiation Control Program Directors, a national organization of state and local officials, has conditionally endorsed the new policy, but has said that ''unnecessary exposures from frivolous uses of radioactive material can be prevented.'' Uses in consumer products, including food, drugs, cosmetics, jewelry and toys, are ''without justification,'' the conference said.
 
E.P.A. More Cautious
The new policy, according to people who follow the Nuclear Regulatory Commission closely, is likely to state that disposal or reuses are permissible if they do not give any individual an annual dose above 10 millirem. A millirem is a measure of radiation absorbed by tissue, taking into account the difference in damage produced by various kinds of radiation. The average American gets a dose of about 360 millirem a year, most of it from radon gas, and some from man-made sources like X-rays, bomb fallout and airline flights. One coast-to-coast round-trip flight results in about 5 millirem of exposure.
The goal is that the sum of all exposures resulting from the new policy not exceed 100 millirem a year, but opponents say that if the activities are unregulated, this will be difficult to ascertain.
But the Environmental Protection Agency has proposed a standard from any given source of 4 millirem per year, rather than 10. And the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements, a panel of scientists that publishes radiation guides that are closely followed by radiologists, recommends that only activities producing a dose of 1 millirem be regarded as being too small to worry about. The chairman of the council, Dr. Warren Sinclair, said in an interview that adopting the new level as a blanket policy was unwise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (94%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (94%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; NUCLEAR WASTES; INCINERATORS; ATOMIC ENERGY ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (71%); LANDFILLS (58%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L RALPH NADER (79%); 



665 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Two Votes Show Public Is Wary of Tax Increases

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
When voters in California approved higher taxes on gasoline earlier this month, some political analysts said that the vote in the home state of the tax revolt signaled a shift in the national mood toward a new willingness to pay more for services.
But a week later, North Dakotans soundly rejected higher taxes for education. And measures to repeal, restrict or limit taxes will be on the ballot in at least seven states in November.
''People are still very wary about taxes,'' said Robert D. Ebel, director of public finance for the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations, a nonpartisan group appointed by the President and Congress. ''I'd be very cautious about reading too much into the California gas tax vote.'' 
Indeed the votes in both states demonstrate the complicated and difficult landscape politicians must walk when the subject is taxes.
Mr. Ebel and others said the California vote, which approved higher gasoline taxes for highway improvements, was shaped by a specific concern, frustration over congested highways, and did not necessarily reflect a new attitude about taxes.
Some analysts said the California vote demonstrated that voters would approve higher taxes if the use was deemed worthy. Others said any effort to increase taxes must swim upstream, no matter what the program is.
 
Taxpayers 'Riled Up'
Kevin P. Phillips, a conservative political analyst, said there had been times when voters were willing to spend more on taxes, but not now.
''There is a sense among average Americans that, whatever the overall tax is, he or she is paying too much,'' Mr. Phillips said, adding that the common view is: '' 'If somebody can come up with a tax that falls on somebody else, fine. But not me.' ''
''What gets people further riled up,'' he added, ''is that not only does the average guy have to pay too much, but then they can't stand what the politicians do with the money. And then they read about the billions lost in this savings and loan business. How can anybody have any respect for a managerial process that involves that?''
Despite a perception that taxes have decreased since Ronald Reagan took office, taxes as a percentage of the gross national product have increased, to 36.4 percent from 34.1 percent since 1980, according to the Intergovernmental Advisory Commission. The percentage taken by the Federal Government has remained stable: 20.6 percent in 1980 as against 20.7 percent last year.
But the percentage of state and local taxes has grown, a consequence of the Reagan Administration's shifting many responsibilities from the Federal level. Since 1980, state and local taxes have risen to 15.7 percent of the G.N.P., from 13.5 percent.
''We're coming to the limit of what people can pay for government,'' said Marshall Taylor, a spokesman for the National Taxpayers Union Foundation, a conservative anti-tax group. ''Politicians will be making a mistake if they read the California vote as an indication that people want higher taxes.''
''Let's look at the evidence,'' he said. ''Five states rejected tax increases last November'' - North Dakota, Michigan, Washington, Louisiana and Pennsylvania - ''and none approved one.''
Mr. Taylor said North Dakota's vote against higher sales taxes last week reflected the nation's mood more closely than did California's. North Dakota, whose three representatives are Democrats, is a comparatively high tax state.
 
Ballot Issues in November
States that are expected to have ballot questions on tax limitation measures this November include Illinois, Colorado, Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon, California and Utah.
The Massachusetts measure would repeal a 15 percent state income tax increase imposed last year.
In Colorado, voters will be asked whether to set ceilings on property taxes. Nevadans, who do not have a personal income tax, will vote on a proposed constitutional amendment to ban such a tax.
An Oregon proposal would cap property tax assessments at $15 per $1,000 of assessed valuation to finance public schools and at $10 per $1,000 for all other government functions.
In California, a proposed measure would require that all state or local taxes earmarked for a specific purpose receive a two-thirds vote of the people or a two-thirds vote of both houses of the Legislature to become law. Taxes for general use would have to get a majority vote of the people or a two-thirds vote of both houses of the Legislature.
In Utah, a measure would exempt food from the state sales tax. In Illinois, an amendment would require a 60 percent vote in both chambers of the State Legislature to raise any taxes.
 
Politicians Wary of Reactions
Mr. Taylor said few politicians in Washington or elsewhere were willing to call for higher taxes, in part because they fear the wrath of voters and fear giving their opponents ammunition against them.
In Illinois, for example, both the Republican and Democratic nominees for governor have endorsed the proposed measure to limit taxes.
''People seem to be more willing to pay taxes when they know exactly what it's going for - sewers, parks,'' said Mr. Ebel. ''On the other hand, they are not so willing to pay taxes without strings attatched.''
Property taxes are now viewed as the least fair tax, according to a survey by the Intergovernmental Commission. Because Federal aid has been cut so deeply, local and state governments have had to raise taxes, even to maintain the status quo in terms of services.
''People aren't stupid,'' said Mr. Ebel. ''On the state and local level, they are aware that they are paying for more, but not getting more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; NORTH DAKOTA

SUBJECT: TAXATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE TAX INCREASES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); FUEL TAX (91%); POLITICS (91%); GASOLINE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (67%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



666 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Stinginess on Baby Food Will Cost Dearly

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Cutting off the food supply of pregnant women and babies, as is happening now to the WIC program (which stands for women, infants and children) is most repugnant (editorial, June 5).
The program has reached only half the eligible population anyway. The 7.4 million high-risk mothers and babies who do not receive the milk, cheese, orange juice and cereal they need are being joined now by people dropped from the rolls as a result of the increase in cost of baby-food supplements that Ross Laboratories, Mead Johnson and Wyeth have enacted almost simultaneously. This increase is not compensated for by an increase in Federal or state funds.
Work done at Tufts University and elsewhere shows that every dollar not spent on the WIC program costs at least $3 in health expenditures ultimately. WIC costs $30 a month per mother. A day in intensive care for a baby born below weight as a result of undernutrition costs $1,000. If complications arise, the cost skyrockets. The lifetime care costs of a retarded person (more likely among babies born below weight) is more than $2 million.
Underfunding WIC is morally revolting and also economically stupid.
 
JEAN MAYER, J. LARRY BROWN
 Medford, Mass., June 6, 1990
The writer are, respectively, president of Tufts University and board chairman of Oxfam America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MJN (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ABBOTT NUTRITION (57%); MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION CO (57%); OXFAM AMERICA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; BABIES; BABY FOODS; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; WELFARE (US) INFANTS & TODDLERS (92%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); BABY FOODS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MALNUTRITION (78%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); CHEESE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); 

PERSON: MAYER, JEAN (DR); BROWN, J LARRY



667 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
European Watershed

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: DUBLIN

 BODY:
The European Community is off and running, after nearly a generation of ''stagnation,'' to use Mikhail Gorbachev's word for an unproductive era.
The momentum began with the Single Act in 1987, after Mr. Gorbachev's arrival but before any clarity about the impact of his changes. Even then, there was a sense of a race against time, whether the Community could coalesce into an effective power before its magnetism brought so many applicants that it would dissolve into a mere club of nations.
Last year the collapse of the Soviet empire and the inevitable reunification of Germany threatened to leave Western Europe on the slow track. But the very threat, especially the question of whither a big new Germany, acted as a spur. Now the Community is catching up. 
Even Britain's recalcitrant Margaret Thatcher has implicitly conceded that she can't stop the rush to ''European Union.'' It's still taboo to call it a united states of Europe, Jean Monnet's vision when he promoted the Common Market two generations ago. But President Mitterrand of France now says flatly the goal is ''federal.''
With the push here for political and economic union by 1993, including foreign policy, security policy, currency and a central bank, Europe is moving from the stage of America's Continental Congress toward a constitutional convention.
It's breathtaking, even though it's coming in technical accords without the soaring rhetoric of America's Founding Fathers. The Europeans will have to write their preamble after they've haggled out the articles and clauses of their future constitution. But that's the way they're going.
Disintegration of the East has been a major influence. Distinct internal factors in East and West created the conditions for this new tide of history, but they have reinforced each other. There's even a risk of tidal wave. West Germany's Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, seems to be carried away. There's no question of his dedication to integration in the European Community and NATO, to make a ''European Germany'' and not a ''German Europe,'' as his Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, puts it.
But he has got the idea that it requires him and his allies to be Mikhail Gorbachev's safety net in the Soviet leader's high-wire dance to economic reform. Mr. Kohl's argument, supported by Mr. Mitterrand, is that Mr. Gorbachev's will to reform made everything else possible, so he should be rewarded and supported lest a failure put all the gains into question.
Mr. Mitterrand calls it a chicken and egg question, arguing that the reforms won't work without Western help, so the West would defeat its own interest by telling Mr. Gorbachev to reform first and collect later. This is a highly dubious proposition on many counts, including the simple notion that a pledge of widespread Western aid would bring Mr. Gorbachev safe transit across his perils.
Even if the sentiment appeals, there is little idea how Western aid could be absorbed in the way Mr. Kohl insists is necessary. Soviet economists who are reformers say their system isn't yet capable of digesting huge inflows productively.
The profound economic and social changes the Soviets need are certainly painful. But it will do them no service to help postpone the hard decisions. It's understandable that Mr. Gorbachev appealed to Mr. Kohl for sympathy, as the German Chancellor informed his European partners. And, as he said with surprising candor, it's understandable and reasonable that Mr. Kohl decided Bonn should pay up to win Moscow's support for a Germany in NATO.
But delay is now Mr. Gorbachev's main enemy. He shouldn't be encouraged to waffle any longer. The aid issue will come up at the seven-nation summit meeting in Houston next month. On that, President Bush will be right to side with Mrs. Thatcher against throwing money at the Soviet morass until there is better evidence it can be properly used.
The Soviets must not be excluded from Europe, but neither can they simply be bought in. Conditions for Eastern Europe on aid to make sure investment works also must apply to Moscow. And every success in Eastern Europe will add hope, impetus and opportunity to the Soviets.
Nobody outside can assure Mr. Gorbachev's success, let alone the transformation of the Soviet Union, which is much more important. The construction of a solid Western Europe is the best assurance that the Continent won't revert to the self-destructive fragments of its past, and the way to give heart and example to the East. History can move.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



668 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: A Poll Shows Less Pessimism Among Blacks

BYLINE: By THOMAS MORGAN

 BODY:
Six months after David N. Dinkins was inaugurated as Mayor, black New Yorkers are sharply less pessimistic than white or Hispanic New Yorkers about their city's future, according to a New York Times/ WCBS-TV News Poll.
The divergence of views since Mr. Dinkins's election contrasts starkly with 17 years of results of polls on New York City's future. Not since the end of the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay in the early 1970's have blacks been less pessimistic than whites about the city's future.
Now, the poll shows, white and Hispanic residents are growing more pessimistic in their vision of New York after the turn of the next century, but blacks have adopted a more hopeful view.
 
Most Important Issues
Despite the divergence among blacks and whites about the city's prospects, for the first time in nearly a decade New Yorkers mentioned race relations as the second most important issue facing their Mayor, rivaling crime and homelessness. Drugs were seen as the most important issue for the second year in a row. 
Fifty-six percent of all New Yorkers polled approved of Mayor Dinkins's job performance, according to the poll, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points and was based on telephone interviews with 1,047 adults from June 17 to June 20. Virtually all the interviews were completed before the enthusiastic reception in New York for Nelson Mandela.
Mayor Dinkins's approval rating is significantly higher than the rating that former Mayor Edward I. Koch received at this time last year, but is not as high as Mr. Koch's peak rating a month after he was elected to a second term in 1981.
 
'Would Like to Do Better'
In an interview at City Hall yesterday, Mayor Dinkins characterized the outlook of New Yorkers as ''gloomy'' but predicted that the pessimism would diminish as his administration worked to improve economic conditions and race relations.
''I would like to do better,'' the Mayor said when told that 56 percent of those polled approved of his performance. ''I'm pleased that the assessment of our efforts has met with this much approval.''
More than three-fourths of blacks, half of the Hispanic respondents and slightly less than half of the whites rated Mr. Dinkins's job performance favorably. In comparison, 59 percent of New York City residents approved of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's performance.
While the poll could not conclusively connect the divergence in pessimism among blacks and others to the election of Mayor Dinkins, there were indications that general attitudes can be influenced by the occupant of Gracie Mansion.
Blacks who approved of Mayor Dinkins were almost twice as likely to be optimistic about the city's future as whites who approved of him. And in follow-up interviews after the poll was concluded, some black New Yorkers attributed their rosier view of the city's future to the election of Mr. Dinkins. But others cited world events ranging from the decline of Communism in Eastern Europe to the release of Mr. Mandela after 27 years in prison in South Africa.
While the presence of a black mayor seemed to have some influence on general feelings about the future, the poll also disclosed skepticism about whether a black mayor makes a difference in the way black people are treated. Two-thirds or more of each race said it did not have much effect.
Last year, when New Yorkers were asked in a similar poll which issues they wanted the city to concentrate on first, race relations was barely mentioned as a critical issue. But in the aftermath of the murder of Yusuf K. Hawkins in Bensonhurst, the boycott of a Korean grocer and other well-publicized racial incidents in the region, problems caused by such tensions clearly worry New Yorkers.
 
'I'm Frightened'
''Black and white, that's all you hear all day long, and I'm frightened,'' said a 56-year-old white woman from Staten Island who asked not to be identified by name. In a follow-up interview after the poll, she added: ''I'm frightened to go out the door. Blacks hate us. The city will be worse in 10 or 15 years, and I feel that race relations is the thing doing it.''
A black retired Housing Authority police officer said: ''Each race is guilty of disliking another race for no basic reason. We've got to stop. It will take a long time, but I think we are learning.''
Almost three-fifths of those polled said they would, if it were entirely up to them, move out of the city in the next four years. The reasons cited are crime, congestion, expense and the needs of children.
 
'No Improvement'
''I have made up my mind that I am leaving New York,'' said a retired professor at a New York City college who was among those polled and identified himself as white. ''I came here as a student in the 1950's and I loved New York for many years.''
''But I've been mugged four times,'' said the professor, who gave Mayor Dinkins a favorable job rating. ''I've seen no improvement in the quality of life in the last five to six years. I don't think Dinkins is going to help.''
When asked about Mr. Dinkins's handling of relations between blacks and whites, more than two-thirds of all New Yorkers polled approved of his actions. While both white and Hispanic New Yorkers gave the Mayor high marks for race relations, blacks gave him the highest rating, with 83 percent.
''We so seldom get into a position to be mayor of a big city,'' said a black woman polled who supports the Mayor. ''Some of our people are so relieved and glad that he's in, they expect magic. The Mayor tried to bring people together in Bensonhurst, and while it didn't work, he tried.
 
'To Make Things Better'
''There are so many people out there who are trying to do good things for their communities, for their neighborhoods, to make things better, and Mayor Dinkins is one of them,'' she said.
Among blacks interviewed, poor race relations were seen as underpinning problems facing blacks and others in the city, ranging from crime to drugs to housing shortages to poor education.
''If we get race relations settled, then we will solve the crime problem settled because a lot of what is going on is economic,'' said the retired Housing Authority police officer.
Not all blacks said it was the Mayor's election that caused greater optimism. A part-time teacher who is black said her optimism was based on dramatic changes in human rights that she has seen around the world.
 
'Gives Me Hope'
''The destruction of the Berlin Wall, Nelson Mandela's release, this all gives me hope that things I thought would never change can change,'' she said.
But another city resident who was polled disagreed and also disapproved of Mayor Dinkins's performance. The man, a white marketing manager for a publishing company, said he believed that Mr. Dinkins had given in to political and special interests, especially concerning blacks.
''I think he has buckled under to political interests,'' the marketing manager said. ''Take the visit of Mandela to New York. When the Puerto Rican extremists were denied a place in the proceedings, there was criticism of the Mayor, and he knuckled under.''
The poll cited areas of agreement among racial groups as well. By a 2-to-1 ratio, both black and white New Yorkers said they preferred cuts in city spending to increases in taxes.
 
How Poll was Conducted
The latest New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted from June 17 to June 20 with 1,047 adults in all parts of New York City. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
The basic sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of city exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each area in the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened to limit calls to residences.
To reach a larger number of black New Yorkers and make possible more reliable analysis of their opinions, additional random telephone numbers were also screened and additional black respondents were interviewed. The results were then weighted to reflect the actual racial composition of the city's adult population.
The results were also weighted to take account of household size and number of residential telephone lines and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to borough, sex and age.
In theory, in 19 of 20 cases the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by interviewing all adult New Yorkers.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for the 484 whites it is plus or minus 4 percentage points. For the 408 blacks, it is plus or minus 5 percentage points. For the 183 Hispanic respondents it is plus or minus 7 percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: Chart of the percentage of respondents saying that New York City will be a worce place to live 10 or 15 years from now.; table showing how Whites, Blacks and Hispanics rate the mayors and the city's future. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 OTHER SERVICES (92%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING AND PRINTING (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING AND PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES ELECTRONIC MEDIA CO (92%); NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CORP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES BROADCASTING SERVICE INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES SALES INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES DISTRIBUTION CORP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES SYNDICATION SALES CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/WCBS-TV NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; HOMELESS PERSONS; RACIAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (77%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) ANTHONY NELSON (54%); 



669 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Black Men: Are They Imperiled?

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
One by one they took the microphone yesterday. Men and women, academicians and politicians, entrepreneurs and former convicts, they told the Harlem audience the same thing: black men are an endangered species.
The occasion was the first of several planned statewide public hearings about black men sponsored by the New York State Black and Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus. 
The caucus formed a task force focusing on black men after a study released in February showed that almost one of every four young black males is behind bars or on probation or parole. The study, based on Justice Department data, was done by a group called the Sentencing Project.
The hearing attracted more than 700 people to the Apollo Theater and explored a laundry list of problems including high rates of homicide, incarceration and joblessness. The hearing, which was broadcast live on WLIB-AM, also looked at solutions like alternative schools and job training.
''We're being broadcast all over the metropolitan area today and I think it will generate in the minds of black men that they have to be more involved in saving themselves and the black family,'' said Assemblyman Albert Vann, Democrat of Brooklyn, chairman of the 25-member legislative caucus.
 
'Devastating Our Men'
Vivian Gordon, a professor of African-American studies at the State University of New York in Albany and a specialist on the black family, said: ''I believe black men are a hunted and endangered species. You kill off the male and leave the woman vulnerable and without a partner. They have done everything to devastate us by devastating our men.''
In New York State, the number of black men in prison grew by 80 percent between 1970 and 1986, nine points higher than the national average. In New York City, black men have an unemployment rate 2.5 times higher than white men.
Other studies show that homicide is the leading cause of death among black men under 25 - 10 times higher than for white men - and that the suicide rate among young black men has increased yearly. Black men under 45 years old are 10 times more likely than whites to die of hypertension and have a 45 percent higher rate of lung cancer.
Walter W. Stafford, a professor of urban planning and public administration at New York University, said he found it ''astounding'' that in the last decade six black men in New York City have died from race-related violence.
''Today's meeting was a beginning,'' Dr. Stafford said. ''Blacks have been in New York since 1626 and these problems are not new but no one has been addressing them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENTENCING PROJECT (57%); SENTENCING PROJECT (57%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PROBATION AND PAROLE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MEN; LAW AND LEGISLATION CAUCUSES (90%); PAROLE (90%); MEN (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PROBATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); SUICIDE (61%); LUNG CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%); HYPERTENSION (50%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



670 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: The Struggle to Revise Hospital Reimbursements

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 25

 BODY:
Few people in Albany truly understand, or want to understand, the complex formula that regulates the financing of New York's struggling hospitals.
But buried beneath the technocratic lingo about diagnostic related groups and service intensity weights lies a critical debate about how the state should use its significant regulatory power to speed the evolution of its crippled health-care system.
To that end, legislative negotiators have been struggling to devise a new hospital reimbursement formula to replace the one that expires at the end of the year.
The current reimbursement formula, which controls the rates hospitals are paid by Medicaid, Blue Cross/Blue Shield and private insurers, has contributed to hospital deficits estimated at more than $1 billion last year. In its three-year lifetime, it has done little to offset the fiscal burdens caused by AIDS, crack, a severe nursing shortage and increasing labor costs. 
 
Carrot and Stick
In recent years, New York State has used its hospital reimbursement formula as both a carrot and a stick to prod the state's medical institutions into shifting the delivery of primary and preventive care from crowded hospital emergency rooms to outpatient clinics. But if the red ink and chaotic conditions at many New York hospitals is any indication, the health-care system is not changing quickly enough.
The State Health Commissioner, Dr. David Axelrod, concedes that ''there have been more failures than successes'' in the state's effort to redesign the health-care system.
''We have depended on the willingness of the institutions to initiate what we perceive to be in their interests without having a lot of governmental intervention,'' he said. ''But I don't think the incentives have been sufficient to force the change in behavior.''
Few lawmakers, or even hospital executives, say they disagree with Dr. Axelrod's vision of a decentralized health-care system in which primary and preventive care is provided in the community by family physicians and storefront clinics.
But many in Albany believe the Commissioner's vision is utopian. They argue that the hospital system has been bleeding to death while Dr. Axelrod battles to change it. And with the Bush Administration pushing for substantial cuts in Medicare financing, they warn that the system could collapse without immediate help.
''We can't stop investing in hospitals while waiting for paradise,'' the Assembly Speaker, Mel Miller, said earlier this year. ''Paradise is still lost.''
When translated into the nitty-gritty of legislative negotiation, the debate outlined by Dr. Axelrod and Mr. Miller has become an issue of dollars.
With the Legislature expected to adjourn early next week, negotiators must reach an agreement on how much money should be used to bail out the hospitals with an infusion of inpatient dollars and how much should be used as an incentive for the hospitals to expand outpatient services.
The negotiators, mostly aides to Mr. Miller and the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, already know how much money will be spent on the reimbursement system. The question is where it will go.
Included in this year's budget is $13 million for a new reimbursement formula that will cover the last quarter of the state's fiscal year. Because that money determines how much is spent by the Federal and local governments on Medicaid financing, and because it determines reimbursement rates paid by private insurers, the $13 million actually translates into an annual infusion of about $500 million.
 
Making Technical Adjustments
That money comes in addition to $500 million the hospitals will receive from a normal inflationary adjustment.
The state can direct that money where it wants by making technical adjustments in the reimbursement formula. For instance, it can compensate hospitals that have the most challenging caseloads of AIDS patients or the most difficulty recruiting nurses. To encourage hospitals to provide more outpatient care, it can raise the inadequate $60-a-visit reimbursement cap for trips by Medicaid recipients to outpatient clinics.
Because less than half of New York's hospitals lost money last year, those on all sides of the reimbursement debate believe the money should be directed to the hospitals in the worst condition, rather than distributed equally across the board.
Dr. Axelrod and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo have led the charge for significant increases in outpatient rates, suggesting that the $13 million be divided by allocating $7 million for inpatient services and $6 million for outpatient services. Both houses of the Legislature prefer a formula that directs more money to inpatient services.
Because hospital employees and patients form vital constituent groups in most legislative districts, their political influence can be great. The state's hospital associations have mounted sophisticated lobbying campaigns and have supplied much of the technical know-how to the negotiators. Health-care workers pitched in two weeks ago by staging the largest rally in Albany since the Vietnam War.
The business community has used newspaper advertisements and mailings to argue that the bulk of the money should go to outpatient services, which would lessen the cost to private insurers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (71%); MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION); HEALTH INSURANCE HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); INSURANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); MEDICAID (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); AIDS & HIV (70%); LABOR SHORTAGES (68%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN DAVID AXELROD (88%); MEL MILLER (61%); 



671 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: Japan Eyes Space With Uncertainty, And Confusion

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
TWENTY years after its first tentative steps into space, Japan has formulated ambitious plans but remains mired in confusion over whether it wants to seek a world leadership role in space.
In the laboratories of Japan's biggest space research center, scientists are already putting together mock-ups of a proposed compact space shuttle named Hope, an unmanned, reusable and low-cost vehicle to shuttle equipment between Earth and the American space station.
At a competing space agency devoted to scientific experiments, scientists are putting the final touches on a plan, to be proposed this month, to burrow seismic probes into the crust of the Moon, part of a broad study into the makeup of the Moon's core.
Next month some of this country's biggest industrial powers are forming a consortium to get Japan into the commercial launching business, betting that Japan will finally straighten out the problems that have plagued its powerful new H-II rocket, the first to be developed here without American help.
Industrial visionaries have their own grand dreams: a Japanese-built lunar base camp, complete with its own concrete manufacturing plant, or - for Japanese tourists who are tiring of Hawaii - the solar system's first space resort, a hotel that would spin 200 miles above the Earth. 
But the announcements and ideas, Japanese scientists concede, are closer to a wish list than a national project. Despite its remarkable technological powers and ability to launch enormously successful government-industry projects, Japan is entering its third decade of space activities more confused than ever about where to proceed next, and deeply uncertain whether it wants to commit the money or scarce talent needed to turn the world's second-largest economy into a spacefaring nation.
When Japan announces similarly futuristic plans in electronics, supercomputing, automobiles and pharmaceuticals, they become instant grist for anxious Congressional hearings about American competitiveness and books about Japanese industrial conspiracies. But space remains what one senior Government official here calls ''the Japanese anomaly.''
Unable to define its goals clearly, the space program has largely failed to fire the imagination of the technologically literate Japanese public. Over the last nine years, the country's $900 million space budget has barely budged; last year the Sony Corporation alone spent more on research and development than the entire country spent on space activities. Although the Government last year endorsed for the first time the goal of starting a Japanese manned space program, politicians and scientists alike are deeply reluctant. Too Close to the U.S.? And increasingly, there are questions, seldom voiced publicly, but never far from the surface, about whether Japan made a major error when it decided to link its own fortunes in space so deeply with the American plan to build a space station, a project that now appears troubled.
Officially, Japan's position is that the country owes the United States a tremendous debt for the technology that has gotten the country into space at all, and could hardly turn away now. ''When we began we were quite behind the United States and the Soviet Union, and in many ways we still are,'' said Masato Yamano, the president of the National Space Development Agency of Japan, known here as Nasda and closely patterned after its near-namesake in the United States. ''It would have been too time consuming, too money consuming and too manpower consuming to develop our program without international help.''
But now, Mr. Yamano said in a recent interview at the agency's offices in central Tokyo, ''we are at something of a crossroads, and we have a lot of decisions ahead of us.''
To many Japanese, the country's space program is another example of Japan's continuing trouble with big research projects that have no immediate industrial application and a symbol of its reluctance to pour money into science for science's sake.
But to some Americans who monitor Japan's technological efforts, the Japanese space effort's cautious, plodding approach is deceptively innocuous. Over time, they say, Japan may turn its aversion to manned space exploration into a commercial strength, using its growing expertise in satellite electronics, low-cost launchings and unmanned space experiments to profitable ends.
It was exactly such fears that led the United States to demand an end earlier this year to a Japanese Government-sponsored project to develop Japanese communication satellites. The American objection was that the satellite project, which Japan described as an experimental effort to improve technology, would turn into a commercial product that would compete with private satellite makers in the United States.
 
Confusion and Competition
Americans and Japanese both seem confused over the goals and structure of Japan's space effort. From the start, there has been not one space program here, but two. The biggest, commanding over 80 percent of the budget, is run by Nasda, an arm of the Science and Technology Agency. It is responsible for launching Japan's communication satellites and building its biggest space vehicles, from the H-II liquid-fuel rocket to the Japan Experiment Module, an orbital laboratory and prototype manufacturing facility that is Tokyo's main contribution to the space station Freedom.
Nonetheless, the program that has attracted the most praise in recent years was mounted by Nasda's rival, the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, a 35-year-old scientific center that began as an offshoot of the University of Tokyo. Today it is financed by the powerful Education Ministry, though by law its work is restricted to purely scientific research, and even the size of its rockets is limited by legislation passed in the Japanese Parliament in a roundabout effort to keep the institute from competing in rocketry with Nasda.
It was the institute that launched a successful probe in 1986 to meet Halley's Comet, a feat the United States never attempted. And it was the institute that, to Nasda's chagrin, attracted big headlines here three months ago when it made Japan the third nation, after the United States and the Soviet Union, to launch a Moon mission.
As Moon missions go, it was extraordinarily modest, befitting an agency with a budget of only $150 million a year. A satellite not much bigger than a football was propelled into lunar orbit by one of the small, inexpensive Nissan solid-fuel rockets that have become a symbol of the institute's no-frills approach to space science. In the enthusiasm over the launching, people hardly noticed that the probe's data transmitter died mysteriously as soon as it got within range of the Moon.
 
Leaner, Lighter, Brighter
''It didn't really matter,'' said Jun Nishimura, the institute's president. ''The mission proved that we will be able to put sensors on the Moon.''
Under a new accord struck last year, the institute will be allowed to slightly increase the diameter, and thus the thrust, of its rockets to 2.5 meters, or eight feet. That can propel a payload of roughly 1,200 pounds to the Moon. But Dr. Nishimura and others say that such restrictions, while seemingly ridiculous, have actually forced the institute to stay lean and efficient.
''We should take a lesson from the Japanese who are now flying one space science mission every year,'' Freeman Dyson, a noted physicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., wrote not long ago. ''Their resources are limited, their spacecraft are small, and they are doing good science.''
Dr. Nishimura argues that in an age dominated by big science, the institute's path is an attractive alternative. ''We have been able to preserve our university nature and do advanced missions, with advanced technology,'' said Dr. Nishimura. ''Unlike Nasda, we are not tied to the American space program, so we can be more flexible.''
 
Weighed Down by Space Station
Flexible is hardly the word to describe Nasda, and that is the biggest problem facing Japan's space program today. A huge portion of the agency's funds over the next decade is committed to the Japan Experiment Module, and thus to the fate of the American space station. Meanwhile, the rest of Nasda's budget is virtually frozen as the country struggles with the question of whether to abandon its step-by-step approach and plunge into manned space flight.
''The agency itself is very enthusaistic,'' said Professor Atsuhiro Nishida, a top official of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science and one of Japan's leading space scientists. ''But without manned activity, the amount of money that can be spent is limited. And everyone is very cautious about manned activity.''
The initial idea was that the Japan Experiment Module would ease Japan's entry into manned space. Three astronauts, two men and one woman, have been intensively trained here in recent years. Several months ago the oldest of them, 42-year-old Mamoru Mohri, was chosen to fly a future mission aboard the American space shuttle.
 
U.S. Actions 'Quite Annoying'
But Japan's participation in the space station program has been rocky at best. Though the United States officially refers to Japan as one of its international partners, Japanese officials say they have been repeatedly surprised by American announcements that the station was being re-designed or ''rephased.''
Part of Japan's discomfort arises from the fact that almost all of Nasda's plans are dependent on the success of the American space station. The Hope shuttle, which would be launched atop the new H-II rocket, is designed to fly to a space station in need of regular resupply. It would dock with the station, and astronauts or robotic arms aboard the station would unload it. Under commands from the ground, the shuttle would return and land like a plane operating on automatic pilot.
The H-II rocket itself has been the source of continuing troubles for Nasda, problems that in many ways grow out of the country's constitutional ban on offensive weapons. The United States, the Soviet Union and China got their start in heavy-lift rockets by developing intercontinental ballistic missiles. Japan has none, and until the H-II, it licensed most technology from the United States.
 
Problems With the H-II Rocket
Now that they are finally building their own rockets, the Japanese are discovering technological problems that other nations worked out long ago. Until a few months ago no one could make the complex turbopump on the liquid-fuel engine of the H-II work properly; twice it blew up in static tests at Nasda's space launching facilities on Tanegashima Island. The problem appears solved, but the H-II has been delayed at least a year, to 1993.
By that time, Japan will probably be too late toenter the commercial space launching business successfully, as some countries did after the 1986 Challenger disaster grounded payloads headed for the space shuttle. Moreover, tiny production volumes make the H-II very expensive. Japan expects to launch only one or two a year, in part because local fishermen at Tanegashima Island have barred launchings for all but 90 days each year. Rockets, they say, endanger their boats and scare the fish.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Feb. 7 launching of the H-I rocket by the National Space Development Agency of Japan, lofting an observation satellite. (NASDA) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (63%); SNE (NYSE) (63%); 6758 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; SPACE STATIONS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; SPACE SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); BUDGETS (68%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E



672 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: In Marks of Ancient Bit, Clues to Earliest Riders

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
STRAIGHT from the horse's mouth, archeologists have learned that humans probably became equestrians at least 6,000 years ago, much earlier than previously thought. The finding could mean that horseback riding, not the invention of the wheel as most scholars have thought, was the first significant innovation in human land transport.
An analysis of the wear made by ancient bridle bits on a stallion's tooth has led Dr. David W. Anthony, an archeologist at Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., to conclude that the partnership between horse and human that made possible the exploits of the feudal knights, Mongols and American Plains Indians, not to mention Secretariat, began on the steppes of the Ukraine in about 4000 B.C. The first known horsemen, he said, came from a Copper Age society called the Sredni Stog culture that lived on the grasslands along the Dnieper River.
Using a scanning electron microscope, Dr. Anthony and his colleague, Dorcas R. Brown, another archeologist, detected distinctive beveling and some tiny scratches on premolar teeth from a horse found buried at a Sredni Stog site 120 miles south of Kiev. The dental marks, he concluded, were identical to the wear on teeth of modern horses that are ridden, but not among wild horses. 
This is the first direct evidence for horseback riding by such an ancient human society, Dr. Anthony reported recently at the International Conference of Archeozoology in Washington. He said the early horsemen used a rope bit. Four radiocarbon dates show the site, known as Dereivka, to be 6,000 years old. ''I don't see how I could be wrong,'' Dr. Anthony said in an interview. ''One horse - that's our evidence. But it's very clearly been ridden.''
Kathleen Ryan, an archeozoologist at the University of Pennsylvania, said Dr. Anthony's conclusions were plausible and based on ''a very careful study.'' She said some other experts would probably not accept the interpretation until it can be corroborated by evidence from more than a single horse.
Anthropologists said the dental evidence, if confirmed, represented strong support for Soviet scholars who have for several decades contended that people were riding horses on the Eurasian steppes as early as 4000 B.C., about 2,500 years earlier than usually assumed. They based their belief on indirect evidence at Sredni Stog sites, such as perforated antler tines that could have been cheek pieces for a horse's bit and carved horse-head effigies with indications of a bridle.
Most scholars in Europe and the United States have adhered to the standard view that horseback riding began some 3,500 years ago in Central Asia and was introduced soon after into the civilization of Mesopotamia. Their interpretations were derived from clay figurines of riders on horses and horse-drawn war chariots.
Examination of skeletons indicated that the horse was domesticated even earlier but was initially used only as a source of food. Cuneiform texts show that the wheel, at first only solid wooden disks, was introduced in Mesopotamia about 5,000 years ago. Its first use was in ox-drawn carts.
 
The Horse in Human History
Fixing the time and place of the earliest horseback riding is considered important in the study of human culture, Ms. Ryan said, because it gave people ''much greater mobility, which made big differences in military tactics and where people settled.'' Dr. Andrew Sherratt of Oxford University's Ashmolean Museum and Dr. Sandor Bokonyi of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences recently described the profound changes the innovation had on trade and settlement patterns, communications and warfare.
''Horses can double or triple the distances humans can travel in a day,'' Dr. Anthony said. ''So this changes economic and social distances by a factor of three. Resources, markets, allies and enemies that had previously been beyond effective reach became reachable.''
With the cooperation of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, Dr. Anthony last year studied horse skeletons excavated at Dereivka. The telltale teeth were found with the skull, lower jaw and forelimbs of a stallion that had been buried in what archeologists call a ''ritual assemblage.''
The horse had been buried with two dogs and some ceramic human figurines, possibly indicating that this was no ordinary horse. Some antler pieces, similar to the cheek pieces used 2,000 years later as part of a Bronze Age horse harness, were found among the remains.
 
Strong Enough to Carry Men
The wear Dr. Anthony detected on the premolar teeth resembled that shown in recent X-ray studies of horses ridden with metal bits. A horse that habitually fights the bit will move it repeatedly onto the forward part of the chewing surface of its second premolar tooth. The slippage back and forth across the prow of the tooth causes the observed wear marks.
Soviet studies show that the Dereivka horses were stocky, large-headed animals that stood more than 12 hands high at the withers and had thick, robust legs. They probably resembled today's Przewalski horses and would certainly have been strong enough to bear a human's weight.
The teeth from some other horses at Dereivka had no such wear marks. But those skeletons were found in garbage mounds at the site and so were probably from animals that had been eaten, the archeologist concluded.
The teeth of wild horses from Nevada and the barrier islands off Virginia were also examined and found to have no comparable beveling and scratches, Dr. Anthony said.
 
Next, a Re-creation
As the next step, Dr. Anthony plans this summer to simulate primitive riding conditions with an unbroken horse using a bridle and rope bit crafted with materials similar to what might have existed 6,000 years ago. He will then take casts of the horse's teeth, examine them under a scanning electron microscope and compare them with teeth he has collected from several Eurasian sites.
Since the wear found on the Dereivka teeth corresponds to metal bit wear, Dr. Anthony said, it may be possible that a rope bit produces the same marks. Or it could be that the Sredni Stog people had copper bits. Some copper tools and ornaments have been excavated there.
If the Copper Age cultures of the Ukraine developed horseback riding, Dr. Anthony speculated, the horse could have been an agent in the spread of Indo-European, the mother tongue of nearly all European languages, from its supposed place of origin, which was probably on the Eurasian steppes about 6,000 years ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A horseman on a felt hanging, about 2,400 years old, from the Scythian steppes north of the Black Sea. New evidence suggests riding may have begun there. (Cercle d'Art, Ziolo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UKRAINE (87%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (72%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (71%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE BUILDING OFFICIALS (54%); 

SUBJECT: HORSES; HORSES; ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HORSES (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); EVIDENCE (65%); INTERVIEWS (65%); ELECTRON MICROSCOPES (53%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE; ANTHONY, DAVID W (DR) DAVID W ANTHONY (93%); 



673 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Big Lessor Of Aircraft To Be Sold

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEV, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 25

 BODY:
The International Lease Finance Corporation, one of the largest airplane leasing companies, said today that it had agreed to be acquired by the American International Group Inc., an insurance company, in a $1.3 billion deal.
According to the agreement, shareholders of International Lease could receive $32.50 in cash for each of their shares or 50 cents in cash plus three-tenths of one American International common share.The company said the principals in International Lease, who own about 55 percent of outstanding shares, would elect to receive the stock to make their deal largely tax-free. Outside shareholders are expected to take the cash, which would be a taxable transaction. 
International Lease is the world's second-largest airplane leasing company, after the GPA Group Ltd. of Shannon, Ireland. The company has enjoyed tremendous growth in recent years as airlines have scrambled to obtain planes to replace aging fleets and to take advantage of a booming air-travel market.
 
Concern Over Financing
Company executives and industry analysts said International Lease, which is based in Beverly Hills, Calif., decided to sell because it was no longer confident it could raise the money it needed to expand.
''Having, as we call it, a 'Big Daddy' such as A.I.G. behind us solidifies the future of the company and results in a good transaction for all shareholders,'' said Louis L. Gonda, International Lease's executive vice president.
''We will be able to fulfill all of the acquisition plans we have without having to be very concerned about additional equity,'' Mr. Gonda added. ''The stock market has its uncertainties and our stock has historically fluctuated depending on factors that are entirely outside of our control, such as interest rates or issues that might affect the airline or aircraft or leasing industry.''
Daniel A. Hersh, an analyst at Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards in Los Angeles said that despite consistently good earnings, the company's stock has been trading at a low ebb recently, and the executives who control it, including Mr. Gonda; his father, Leslie L. Gonda, who is chairman, and Steven F. Udvar-Hazy, the president, had grown frustrated with the company's equity valuation.
''It's a high-debt company, and nobody wants those anymore,'' Mr. Hersh said. ''Also, a large short position had developed over fears of a credit crunch. Since only 45 percent of the company is in public hands, why not go with an institution that can bring them a low cost of funds?''
In over-the-counter trading today, the shares of International Lease closed down 50 cents each, to $27.125. American International shares dropped $2.375 each, to $96.625, on the New York Stock Exchange. The announcement of the deal was made here after the markets closed on the East Coast.
 
Aid to Diversification
In a statement, American International, which is based in New York, said the acquisition of International Lease would help it diversify.
''We think this is a superb addition to our range of financial services,'' said Edward E. Matthews, vice chairman of finance. ''With its worldwide business and our international focus, it's a very natural partnership.''
In addition, he said: ''Our equity will enhance International Lease's ability to raise funds. For any company that is relatively small and fast-growing, the question is always whether they can raise the equity they need to sustain growth.''
American International said it would finance the cash portion of the deal from internal sources. It said it would provide up to $125 million of new financing for International Lease.
International Lease said its management would remain in place and would continue to be based in California. $3 Billion in Planes The company's fleet of planes, which are typically leased to airlines for six to eight years, is worth more than $3 billion and includes about 100 aircraft, up from about 60 three years ago. The company's target is to build its portfolio to 350 aircraft by the middle of the decade.
At the moment, the company's backlog of orders from manufacturers is about $14 billion, and it has firm orders from airlines to lease its craft through 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (96%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP; AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES LEASING INDUSTRY (92%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMON STOCK (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEV, MICHAEL LESLIE L GONDA (61%); 



674 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:
* Airbus Industrie, Paris, the European aircraft consortium, said Iraqi Airways would buy five of its A310-300 jets and would take options on five additional planes, for an undisclosed price.
* Apple Bancorp Inc., New York, said shareholders have been given until July 25 to tender their shares under the $38-a-share offer by Stanley Stahl. The offer had been due to expire yesterday. 
* Aviation Education Systems Inc., Huntington, L.I., an aviation career recruitment and training center, said it would purchase Barton ATC Inc., Murfreesboro, Tenn., an air control tower company, for an undisclosed amount.
* Centaur Partners Group, , said it had begun to solicit the proxies of stockholders of National Intergroup, Inc., Pittsburgh, a holding company, to elect Centaur's nominees as directors.
* C. Itoh & Co., Tokyo, a trading company, said it would set up a joint venture in Tokyo with PPG Industries of Pittsburgh, a glass manufacturer, in late July to market PPG's glass sheets in Japan. PPG-CI Co. Ltd., the joint venture, will be owned 51 percent by PPG and 49 percent by Itoh.
* Control Data Corp., Minneapolis, said Texas Instruments Inc., Dallas, planned to acquire its insurance investment business and related technology. Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but Texas Instruments said it was not a large transaction.
* Integrated Resources Inc., New York, said it had completed the sale of Learjet Corp., Wichita, Kan., an aircraft manufacturer, to a U.S. subsidiary of Bombardier Inc., Montreal, a maker of trains and train parts, for $75 million.
* Loewen Group Inc., Canada, a funeral services company, said it would buy the shares of Paragon Family Services Inc., Houston, an owner and operator of funeral homes, for $65.5 million.
* Material Sciences Corp., Elk Grove Village, Ill., a holding company, said it had hired William Blair & Co., Chicago, an investment banking firm, to investigate a possible sale of the company.
* Microsoft Corp., Redmond, Wash., said that sales of its Microsoft Windows Version 3.0 software had surpassed the company's sales projections and that it would extend and enhance its customer support services. Itoh, C.(C. Itoh)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (84%); TXN (NASDAQ) (82%); SCI (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (81%); ARB (NYSE) (68%); MASC (NASDAQ) (65%); PPG (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS812220 CEMETERIES & CREMATORIES (82%); NAICS812210 FUNERAL HOMES & FUNERAL SERVICES (82%); SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (82%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); NAICS485113 BUS & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); SIC4142 BUS CHARTER SERVICE, EXCEPT LOCAL (71%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (70%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (68%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (68%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (68%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS332812 METAL COATING, ENGRAVING (EXCEPT JEWELRY & SILVERWARE) & ALLIED SERVICES TO MANUFACTURERS (65%); SIC3479 COATING, ENGRAVING, & ALLIED SERVICES, NEC (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3211 FLAT GLASS (56%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (75%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (76%); TEXAS, USA (68%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (68%); DALLAS, TX, USA (68%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (95%); APPLE BANCORP INC (91%); BOMBARDIER INC (84%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (82%); SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (81%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS INC (72%); VEOLIA TRANSPORTATION INC (71%); NATIONAL INTERGROUP INC (70%); C ITOH & CO LTD (70%); ARBITRON INC (68%); CERIDIAN CORP (68%); INTEGRATED RESOURCES INC (67%); LEARJET INC (67%); MATERIAL SCIENCES CORP (65%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (65%); PPG INDUSTRIES INC (56%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FLAT GLASS MFG (90%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (88%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TENDER OFFERS (77%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (77%); GLASS MFG (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); FAMILY (66%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); FAMILY SERVICES (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); SALES PROJECTIONS (50%); 



675 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Founder of Century Joins Citizens Utilities

 BODY:
The Citizens Utilities Company said yesterday that Leonard Tow had been named chairman and chief executive.
Mr. Tow, 60 years old, replaces two Citizens officials, Ishier Jacobson, the chief executive, who will step down on Sunday, and the former chairman, Richard L. Rosenthal, who retired last year.
Mr. Tow will keep his current position as chairman and chief executive of the Century Communications Corporation, which owns 65 cable television systems and 11 cellular telephone networks. Mr. Tow founded the company, which is based in New Canaan, Conn., in 1973. 
Since last year, when Mr. Rosenthal sold 2.2 percent of his Citizens stock to Century, Mr. Tow has been a member of the Citizens board.
Citizens, which is based in Stamford, Conn., is a diversified public utilities company with annual revenues of more than $320 million. Its established bases are gas, water and electric utilities, but it has recently entered into two cellular telephone partnerships.
Mr. Tow said in an interview yesterday that he would have no problem handling the job of head of both companies. He said he would act primarily as a guide for Citizens as it enters the telecommunications field.
''I don't intend to get my hands on all the details,'' he said. ''I believe Citizens has a tremendous future and has the capacity to grow, not only at its pace to date but at an even faster rate.''
Executives from both companies praised Mr. Tow. ''He has an extraordinary sense of business and a vision for what the company should do,'' said Century's president, Bernard Gallagher.
Mr. Tow said he had been tracking Citizens with great interest for 26 years and even applied to be Mr. Rosenthal's assistant in 1965. ''I didn't get the job,'' he said. ''I guess I wasn't qualified.''
Mr. Tow graduated from Brooklyn College and earned a master's degree and doctorate in economics and economic geography from Columbia University. Before entering the telecommunications industry, he taught at Brooklyn and Hunter colleges and at the school of business at Columbia. He has been married for 38 years and has three children, all of whom work in the cable television business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FTR (NASDAQ) (97%); T (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (97%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORP (97%); AT&T INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS UTILITIES CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); GEOGRAPHY (50%); 

PERSON: TOW, LEONARD (DR); JACOBSON, ISHIER; ROSENTHAL, RICHARD L LEONARD TOW (94%); 



676 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Mid-June Vehicle Sales Dropped 3.9%

BYLINE: By PAUL C. JUDGE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 25

 BODY:
Sales of domestically produced cars and light trucks fell 3.9 percent in mid-June, as demand for new vehicles failed to break out of the sluggish pattern that began last fall.
Manufacturers reported selling 212,655 cars in the mid-June period, a decline of 4.6 percent from a year earlier. Cars sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.7 million, ahead of the 6.4 million rate posted for early June, but lagging behind the rate of 6.8 million for the period a year ago. 
In the last 30 days, cars have sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.8 million; for the last 60 days, the rate was 6.6 million. Auto makers sold 128,752 light trucks during the period, a decline of 2.6 percent from last year.
There were nine selling days in the mid-June period this year, and eight days last year.
 
Chrysler At Bottom
Sales of the Chrysler Corporation's cars, light trucks and mini-vans declined significantly more than those of the other domestic auto companies.
Charles Brady, an auto industry analyst with Oppenheimer & Company in New York, attributed the sluggish sales ''to a lack of confidence among consumers'' about the economy. ''Customers have the money to make the purchase,'' Mr. Brady said.
Despite an overall decline in sales, the Japanese auto makers operating plants in the United States continued to gain market share, posting a collective gain of 46 percent in sales of domestically built cars and trucks. The Big Three, meanwhile, saw their overall market share fall to 91 percent from 94 percent, as their total sales for the period slumped 6.8 percent.
The General Motors Corporation and Chrysler accounted for all of the loss in market share, while the Ford Motor Company gained slightly.
Ford was helped by a 4 percent increase in sales of its light trucks, led by the Explorer, a new sport utility vehicle. Analysts and auto executives regard the Ford vehicle as a direct challenger to Chysler's profitable Jeeps.
Chrysler's car sales dropped 18.3 percent. Company officials attributed the decline to the discontinuation of several Chrysler models, including the Omni and the Horizon.
Sales of Chrysler mini-vans and light trucks also fell 12.9 percent, a decline that is especially significant for the No. 3 auto maker because it sells more of those vehicles than cars.
Tom Jakobowski, a spokesman for Chrysler, said the largest sales declines were for Jeep models, which were off 35 percent for the period and 18 percent for the model year.
G.M. sold 102,381 cars in mid-June, a decline of 7.8 percent from a year earlier, while its light-truck sales fell 3 percent to 51,278.
Ford posted a 7.4 percent drop in car sales, to 59,974, while sales of Ford's light trucks rose 4 percent, to 46,415.
 
Japanese Gains
The Honda Motor Company sold 11,280 cars made at the company's plant in Marysville, Ohio, an increase of 61.7 percent. The Toyota Motor Corporation's car sales rose 63.3 percent, to 7,936, while the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation posted a 51.7 percent increase in sales of its cars, to 1,492.
Both Toyota and Mitsubishi have added production capacity at their respective plants, in Georgetown, Ky., and Normal, Ill.
The Mazda Motor Corporation, which manufactures cars in Flat Rock, Mich., sold 1,562 cars in mid-June, an increase of 36.8 percent.
The Nissan Motor Company reported an increase of 19.5 percent in sales of its cars, to 3,162, while Nissan's light-truck sales rose 8.5 percent, to 3,468. The company manufactures both cars and light trucks at its plant in Smyrna, Tenn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (86%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (68%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MINIVANS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

PERSON: JUDGE, PAUL C CHARLES BRADY (55%); 



677 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Expects Profits to Plunge

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 25

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc., the world's largest maker of earth-moving equipment, said today that it expected earnings to plunge because of poor results at its Brazilian unit and high costs from its revamping program and its upgrading of factories.
The opening of trading in Caterpillar shares was delayed pending the announcement. Caterpillar's stock later dropped $5 a share, to close at $58.50, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Sales of the company, based in Peoria, Ill., have been hurt by a slowdown in the United States construction industry. Caterpillar said its earnings would likely plummet in the second quarter by more than 50 percent from the first quarter, when income totaled $99 million, or 97 cents a share.
 
Outlook for the Year
In addition, Caterpillar said it expected full-year profits to be substantially lower than its 1989 earnings of $497 million, or $4.90 a share.
Caterpillar's markets include road building, mining, logging, agriculture, petroleum and general construction. Its products include tractors, pipe layers, trucks and compactors.
The company said its dimmer 1990 earnings outlook was mostly a result of a sharp decline in results for its Caterpillar Brazil subsidiary.
''When the Brazilian Government announced its new economic plan late last March, it was almost impossible to predict what effect it would have on Caterpillar,'' a company spokesman said. ''The effect on our results became very clear when May results became available late last week.''
 
A Lack of Capital
Analysts said the Brazilian Government's effort to reduce inflation had dried up much of that country's available capital, severely crimping Caterpillar's operations there. The program has similarly dented earnings at many American companies with large Brazilian operations.
Caterpillar's losses in Brazil are expected to be most severe in the second quarter, the company said, with smaller losses in the second half of the year. The Brazilian unit, which was profitable in 1989 and in the first quarter of 1990, is expected to report a loss for the 1990 year.
Other reasons for the forecast, the company said, are lower sales volume and costs stemming from its seven-year, $2.1 billion factory modernization program and a revamping plan announced in January.
A weaker Japanese yen has also hurt Caterpillar, giving the company's Asian rival, Komatsu, a substantial competitive edge, analysts said.
 
Hurt by Tight Money
In the United States, the company said its sales volume was down mostly because of a tight monetary policy and high interest rates, which have slowed construction activity.
In response, industry analysts said they expected to reduce 1990 earnings estimates on Caterpillar.
''I'm definitely reassessing my estimates,'' said Alexander Blanton, a research analyst with Merrill Lynch Inc.
Mr. Blanton said his 1990 per-share earnings estimate was $6.50. He said he had been expecting second-quarter earnings ''to be flat with last year's $1.39 a share.''
But in one show of confidence for the longer-term outlook for the company, the Standard & Poor's Corporation reaffirmed its ratings on Caterpillar's $3.3 billion debt. It affirmed the A- senior debt and A-1 commercial paper ratings for Caterpillar and its Caterpillar Financial Services subsidiary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (98%); CATR (PAR) (98%); CAT (SWX) (98%); CAT (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); CATERPILLAR BRASIL SA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; COMPANY REPORTS CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER BLANTON (55%); 



678 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Chiron Corp., Emeryville, Calif., has sold $100 million in 7.25 percent convertible subordinated debentures due in 2015, through Morgan Stanley & Co.
* Detroit Edison, Detroit, will give notice on July 15 of the call of more than $32 million in pollution-control revenue bonds to refund them with new bonds carrying lower interest rates. 
* Gundle Environmental Systems Inc., Houston, has completed a $25 million direct placement of its 11.17 percent senior notes due in 2000 to a group of institutional investors, through Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
* Salomon Inc., New York, will redeem the outstanding $84.1 million of its 10.7 percent notes due in 1992.
* Sears Receivables Financing Group Inc., Chicago, has filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance and sale of $250 million in Sears Credit Account Trust 1990 C pass-through certificates through Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
 
Common Stock
* California Energy Co., San Francisco, has retained Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and First Boston Corp. to place privately up to $25 million in common stock.
* Marine Holding Co., Corpus Christi, Tex., has filed a registration statement for an offering of three million common shares through Salomon Brothers Inc.
* Mesa Airlines Inc., Farmington, N.M., has filed a registration statement for an offering of two million common shares through Oppenheimer & Co.
 
Preferred Stock
* Reliance Electric Co., Cleveland, will sell 600,000 shares of $1.50 junior exchangeable preferred stock to two private institutional holders for $10.9375 a share.
 
Ratings
* Franklin Township's (N.J.) general obligation bonds rating has been raised to Aa, from A-1, by Moody's Investors Service.
* Michigan Hospital Authority's series 1985A, 1988A, 1988B, and 1988C notes have been lowered to A-, from A+, by Moody's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (93%); NOVN (SWX) (93%); MS (NYSE) (92%); GSE (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS326113 UNLAMINATED PLASTICS FILM & SHEET (EXCEPT PACKAGING) MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3081 UNSUPPORTED PLASTICS FILM & SHEET (72%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (67%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); NEW MEXICO, USA (67%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (92%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GUNDLE-SLT ENVIRONMENTAL INC (72%); GSE HOLDING INC (72%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (71%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (71%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (69%); MIDAMERICAN ENERGY HOLDINGS CO (69%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (68%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (68%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (67%); RELIANCE ELECTRIC CO (67%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); DETROIT EDISON CO (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMON STOCK (91%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); BOND ISSUES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); HOSPITALS (50%); 



679 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of U.S. Securities Tumble

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply in light trading yesterday, as dealers sold securities in advance of a heavy schedule of new debt offerings this week.
''Unless we get some new, positive information, the Street has a real problem,'' one government bond trader said. ''It is quarter end, customers are on the sidelines, and the auctions are at hand. That is bad news for the market.'' 
The Treasury auctions, which are all of record size, began yesterday with the weekly sale of three-month and six-month bills. They continue today and on Wednesday and Thursday, when auctions of two-year notes, four-year notes and one-year bills will be held.
At the bill auction, where a total of $17.2 billion worth of securities were sold, three-month bills were auctioned at an average discount rate of 7.78 percent, up slightly from an average rate of 7.74 percent a week ago.
Bids on the new six-month bills produced an average bid of 7.67 percent, compared with last week's average rate of 7.64 percent.
Some dealers said the attitude about the coming note auctions was so poor that yields would have to rise further to attract interest in the new securities. But others said the recent backup should be sufficient to generate demand.
''At current yield levels, I think the two-year sale will be a fairly strong auction,'' said Joe Liro, a vice president and money market economist at S.G. Warburg Securities Inc. ''But the reality of all the new supply staring us in the face gave the market a very sour tone. The supply problem was the focus of the day.''
In advance of today's auction of $11.25 billion of two-year notes, the securities were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.43 percent, up sharply from late Friday, when the notes were offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 8.34 percent.
The four-year notes to be auctioned on Thursday were offered on a when-issued basis late yesterday at a price to yield 8.53 percent, up 10 basis points, or hundredths of a point, from late Friday.
To prepare for the auctions, Treasury dealers, who may end up holding the bulk of the new issues, sold bonds and notes in the secondary market for Treasury securities.
As a consequence, by late yesterday the 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 102 1/32, down 30/32, to yield 8.56 percent. Late Friday the benchmark bond was offered at a price to yield 8.48 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered in late trading at 101 29/32, down 19/32, to yield 8.58 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 26/ 32, down 14/32, to yield 8.53 percent.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, dealers said prices of most actively-traded issues fell by anywhere from three-quarters of a point to a full point in sympathy with the price decline in Treasury issues.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, traders said prices of most issues dipped by one-eighth point to one-quarter point.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Graph of 3-Month Treasury Bills (source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PRICES OF TREASURY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



680 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed as Gold Rises; Mark Is Put Under Pressure

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed yesterday as dealers directed their attention to trading other major currencies.
Gold prices rose on domestic and overseas markets.
Much of the movement in the dollar came as a byproduct of trades involving the West German mark against the Japanese yen and Swiss franc. There was also renewed buying of Canadian dollars after a recent slide. 
Currency trading was expected to be restrained because of the start of the European holiday season, as well as the absence of significant economic reports.
Continuing uncertainty over the economic consequences of German unification put pressure on the mark. Concerns have resurfaced as the day of German monetary union, July 2, approaches.
The dollar began its trading day in Tokyo by rising to 155.62 yen at the close from 154.75 on Friday. Later, in London, it was quoted at 155.35 yen. The dollar traded at 155.40 yen late in New York, up from 154.90 on Friday.
The British pound fell in London to $1.7300, from $1.7330 late Friday. A pound brought $1.7305 later in New York, weaker than late Friday's level of $1.7330.
Selected late rates for the dollar in New York, compared with Friday's late quotes, included: 1.6775 West German marks, up from 1.6740; 1.4100 Swiss francs, down from 1.4110; 5.6315 French francs, up from 5.6215; 1,225.25 Italian lire, down from 1,226.75, and 1.17705 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17855.
The Canadian dollar rebounded modestly from a selloff sparked by the failure of a plan designed to preserve the country's unity by recognizing French-speaking Quebec as a ''distinct society.''
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday's levels, were: 1.6775 West German marks, up from 1.6737; 1.4110 Swiss francs, up from 1.4085; 5.6335 French francs, up from 5.6220; 1.8830 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8835; 1,228.50 Italian lire, up from 1,227.25, and 1.1792 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1816.
On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for June delivery rose $3.40, to $353.80 an ounce. Later, the Republic National Bank in New York quoted an ounce of gold bullion at $352.80, $3.30 higher than Friday's late bid.
In New York silver trading, silver for June delivery closed at $4.816 an ounce on the Comex, compared with $4.81 on Friday. Silver bullion rose in London to a late bid price of $4.85 an ounce, from $4.83 late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); 



681 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: House Sales Off 1.2% in May

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Sales of existing houses slipped 1.2 percent in May, a real estate trade group reported today.
The National Association of Realtors said resales of single-family houses totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.29 million, down from 3.33 million in April. The April sales were down 2.1 percent from the previous month.
Sales of existing houses hit their 1989 peak of 3.56 million units in November and December and then fell in January, February and April as mortgage rates posted double-digit figures. Sales were unchanged in March.
The national commitment rate for 30-year conventional fixed-rate mortgages fell to 10.33 percent at the end of the month from 10.67 percent at the beginning of May, according to surveys by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
The median price of a house fell $800, to $94,800, in May. The median price means half of the homes cost more, half less.
Existing house sales rose 1.7 percent, to an annual rate of 590,000 in the West, where the median price was $135,300. Sales inched up eight-tenths of a percent, to 1.31 million units, in the South, which posted an $85,200 median price. Sales in the recently sluggish Northeast were unchanged at 520,000 and the median price was $141,300.
In the Midwest, where the median price was $73,100, sales of existing houses fell 4.4 percent to 880,000 units.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (65%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); 



682 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Argentine Officials Open Bids on Phone System

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 25

 BODY:
Taking their first big step in the long-debated privatization of state-owned companies, Argentine officials opened bids today from American, Italian and Spanish concerns for the sale of a controlling interest in the national telephone company, Entel.
In addition to offering Argentines the hope of modernizing and expanding what is considered one of the worst telephone systems on a continent known for bad telephones, the sale of Entel will allow the Government to eliminate some $4 billion of its $62 billion foreign debt quickly, as well as nearly $1 billion in overdue interest because most of the purchase will be made with discounted debt paper.
Maria Julia Alsogaray, a former Congresswoman who is directing the Entel privatization, said the offers ''exceed our expectations'' and that the sale will be ''a clear signal to the outside world that Argentina is going to honor its debt.''
 
Interest Payments Resumed
Argentina interrupted interest payments on its debt more than two years ago during the Government of Raul Alfonsin, but the Government of President Carlos Saul Menem recently resumed interest payments, with a first payment of $40 million. Argentina has the third-largest debt in Latin America, after Mexico and Brazil. 
A consortium led by the Spanish telephone company, Telefonica de Espana, and including Citicorp, made the high bid for 60 percent of each of the two new companies into which Entel is to be divided. Other bids came from the Bell Atlantic Corporation in a consortium that includes the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation and from the Italian telecommunications company STET S.p.A. in a consortium that includes France Telecom and J. P. Morgan & Company.
For control of the company that will serve the southern part of the country, the Telefonica group offered $114 million in cash plus $2.18 billion in debt paper and $540 million in forgiven interest on that debt. For the northern territory, it offered $100 million in cash plus $1.85 billion in debt paper and $458 million in forgiven interest.
The cash portion was fixed in the bidding documents, with the debt paper being the only area of competition in the bidding.
 
The Other Two Bids
The Bell Atlantic group bid only for the northern region, offering, in addition to $100 million in cash, $1.86 billion in debt paper, and $371 million in forgiven interest.
The STET group, in addition to the required cash, offered $1.75 billion in debt paper and $350 million in forgiven interest for the northern region and and $1.94 billion in debt paper and $389 million in forgiven interest for the southern region.
Argentine debt paper now trades on the secondary market in New York at 13 to 14 cents per dollar of face value, which would make the Telefonica bid of $4.03 billion in debt paper for the two regions worth something more than $500 million. Financial experts dealing with the privatization, however, say a substantial purchase of Argentine debt would drive up the price.
The banks in the three consortiums all hold portions of the Argentine foreign debt, but it is not clear whether they have enough to make the purchases without acquiring additional debt paper.
 
Telefonica to Get a Choice
The Government has said it will not award the two new companies to the same group, so Telefonica is expected to be given its choice of the two regions. Then the other bidders would be given the chance to equal Telefonica's bid for the remaining region.
Buenos Aires, which has more than half of the 3.2 million telephone lines in Argentina, is divided between the two regions.
The remaining 40 percent share of each of the two new companies will be apportioned as follows: 25 percent to be auctioned through the Buenos Aires stock exchange, 10 percent to be sold to Entel employees and 5 percent to be sold by 200 small-town cooperatives that now operate their own telephone companies.
Argentina has a long history of state domination of the economy through a network of immense state companies like Entel that distributed contracts to hundreds of private supplier companies and subsidized services to private and state industries while serving as an employer of last resort to keep unemployment low. In recent years, however, the system has broken down. Entel, for example, has been running deficits of $50 million a month, and the vast majority of its switchboards are decades out of date.
Although there is still political support in Argentina for a large state role in the economy, President Menem has driven through the privatization program because the nearly bankrupt state lacks the money to modernize the communications system or to continue making up the deficits. Morgan, J. P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (92%); FTE (NYSE) (92%); FTE (BIT) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); TEF (NYSE) (74%); TEF (MCE) (74%); TEF (BIT) (74%); TDE (LSE) (74%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (74%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); TELEFONICA SA (74%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENTEL (ARGENTINE CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRIVATIZATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES; CREDIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY CARLOS SAUL MENEM (55%); 



683 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
European Leaders Back Kohl's Plea to Aid Soviets

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DUBLIN, June 26

 BODY:
Leaders of the European Community, under pressure from Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany to help speed German unification, agreed today on steps that he requested to reassure the Soviet Union.
Giving qualified endorsement to the Chancellor's appeal for billions of dollars in aid to help President Mikhail S. Gorbachev transform the Soviet Union from Communism to a market economy, the 12 leaders called for more detailed proposals for short-term credits and long-term economic aid.
They said they would consider the proposals at another meeting of European leaders expected to be held by October.
They also decided to propose Nov. 19 for a gathering in Paris of the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, a meeting of leaders from East and West that Moscow wanted this year. 
The United States has opposed using economic aid to prop up Soviet reforms. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said on Monday that substantial economic aid would subsidize the Soviet military.
Mr. Kohl, announcing the decision today, said negotiations on the terms of German unity would have to be completed before the Paris meeting, a position supported by the United States and other members of the NATO alliance.
Mr. Kohl, who with the help of President Francois Mitterrand of France was the most insistent backer of the Soviet aid proposal, pronounced himself ''very, very satisfied'' at the end of the two-day meeting.
He made little secret of West Germany's reason for deciding last week to guarantee up to $2.9 billion in German private bank credits to the Soviet Union.
''In this connection,'' he wrote to the President of the European Community's executive commission, Jacques Delors, ''I would urge the Soviet Union, for its part, to adopt a constructive approach to questions arising on the path toward German unity - and this applies in particular to anchoring a future united Germany within the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Community.''
At a news conference after the meeting today, Mr. Kohl dismissed the idea of a link between his proposal for further aid and the goal of ending Soviet objections to NATO membership for a united Germany. But his spokesman, Hans Klein, said the Chancellor had raised the possibility of Western aid amounting to many billions of dollars with Mr. Gorbachev in Moscow last winter and by telephone several times since. The Soviets had suggested a figure of $15 billion, he said.
The decision today did not commit the 12 European Community countries to pledging specific amounts.
But it confronted the United States, Japan and the other industrial democracies who will be meeting in Houston early next month with momentum and a growing European sense of urgency about the need to help Mr. Gorbachev before he and his policies go down in failure. The issue is also likely to come up at the NATO summit in London on July 5 and 6.
Last July, in an atmosphere of gathering change in Eastern Europe, President Bush and the other leaders made the European Commission their coordinating agent for aid to Poland and Hungary.
 
Thatcher's Misgivings
Part of Mr. Kohl's message to the other European leaders here was that without Mr. Gorbachev and the attraction of a closely integrated European Community, the revolutions in Eastern Europe would not have succeeded last year.
But Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain argued forcefully at a dinner in Malahide Castle here on Monday night for careful study of what the Soviet Union needed before any decision to throw money at it.
''We are very ready to consider financial assistance provided it is clearly linked to economic restructuring so that we know it will actually be effective,'' she said today. ''I favor support for economic reform but there has to be reform to support.''
In their communique today, the leaders ''underlined the interest of the community in the success of the political and economic changes initiated by President Gorbachev.'' They asked Mr. Delors's commission to consult with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other international economic institutions and to prepare aid proposals urgently.
 
A Symbol of 'No More War'
Mr. Delors is expected to visit Moscow in mid-July, and he will take with him a Dutch proposal for a European Energy Community including the Soviet Union. The Dutch Prime Minister, Ruud Lubbers, compared the idea to the European Coal and Steel Community created after World War II. He described it to his colleagues here as a symbol and instrument of the principle of ''no more war,'' as well as a means of greater European independence from imported oil.
The European leaders also agreed today to set Dec. 13 and 14 as the opening dates for conferences on greater economic and political union. These could lead to institutional and structural changes bringing community members closer together by 1993, when they have already pledged to create a barrier-free single market of 336 million people.
The leaders agreed on a sweeping statement of support for more effective protection of the environment, but could not agree on the location of a new European Environment Agency because of French insistence that Strasbourg be declared the permanent site of the European Parliament first. The Irish Prime Minister, Charles J. Haughey, said today that his successor in the six-month presidency of the European Community, Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti of Italy, would have to resolve the impasse by October.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Charles Haughey leading members of the European Community in an Irish song yesterday in Dublin. With him were President Francois Mitterrand and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRELAND (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TRENDS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR); WHITNEY, CRAIG R; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S DICK CHENEY (56%); 



684 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Fear a Kiss of Death As Bush Moves His Lips on Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
In the eyes of many Republicans, President Bush abandoned much more today than his campaign pledge not to raise taxes. With just a few words, he holstered his party's best tactical weapon in Congressional campaigns this year, a weapon that the Republicans had used to distinguish themselves since the dawn of the Reagan era.
Conservatives complained loudly, and even moderate Republicans worried that Mr. Bush had crippled a party already suffering from the diminished emotional impact of issues like the Communist threat and protecting the American flag.
''I'm upset, I really am,'' said Jim Dingeman, a Republican businessman who has made resistance to new taxes the centerpiece of his campaign for Congress in a district northeast of Detroit. ''But there's not much I can do except to continue to urge the President to maintain his original promise.'' 
David A. Keene, a conservative consultant, worried that Mr. Bush had taken a ''very dangerous'' step by giving up a ''key defining issue without what might be viewed as a significant explanation.''
Still, while some Republicans viewed Mr. Bush's announcement as a serious tactical blunder, others said he had simply been forced to choose between two painful alternatives: breaking a pledge that was a principal element of his 1988 campaign, or risking a recession if he took no decisive steps to cut a 1991 budget deficit that is now projected at $160 billion.
In this view, Mr. Bush has wisely seized a final chance to save the economy, in the process saving the Republicans from future political damage and himself from a threat to his re-election in 1992.
But for Republican members of Congress, the unmistakable message today was that their party leader was trading away their political advantage in 1990 to strengthen himself two years from now.
 
Trying for Damage Control
On Capitol Hill, Representative Robert S. Walker of Pennsylvania said more than 90 of his Republican colleagues had signed a letter he circulated today with this terse message for Mr. Bush: ''We were stunned by your announcement that you would be willing to accept tax revenue increases as a part of a budget summit pacakge. A tax increase is unacceptable.''
Party leaders expressed confidence that they could keep this discontent from growing into what was rapidly becoming a full-scale revolt. ''No one's panicking or freaking out,'' said Mary Matalin, chief of staff to the Republican National Committee. ''We're trying to see it in the context of a serious deficit-reduction plan. And people will ultimately see it as Bush being a leader and trying to solve a difficult problem.''
Other prices that Mr. Bush must pay in the short term are scathing cartoons about his newly movable lips, and a lot of partisan razzing. For this year, at least, Democrats believe that the phrase ''tax-and-spend Democrats'' can no longer be a staple of the Republican vocabulary.
 
The High Road, for Now
The Democratic leadership was taking the high road today, forswearing any impulse to gloat. But Representative Beryl Anthony Jr. of Arkansas, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, gave a clear picture of what lies ahead. ''I'm chairman of the campaign committee,'' he said, ''and we'll make it a political issue.''
While opinion polls and election returns have long confirmed that people do not like higher taxes, Mr. Bush may in some ways be ahead of his party. A New York Times/CBS News Poll last month found that Americans overwhelmingly expected their taxes to rise to reduce the Federal deficit, and that they had become more resigned to the idea.
Not all Republicans were critical of Mr. Bush today. The White House had done a good job of extracting vows of silence or non-aggression from some predictably vocal Republicans. One prominent defender of the no-new-taxes faith, Edward J. Rollins, was noticeably unavailable. Mr. Rollins is head of the National Republican Congressional Committee, the organization responsible for getting Republicans elected to the House.
''He won't show up anywhere,'' said Gary Koops, a spokesman for the committee. He said Mr. Rollins was at his cabin somewhere in West Virginia and could not be reached.
 
Solace in Semantics
Even Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the combative Republican whip and a leading opponent of tax increases, offered an uncharacteristically tepid response, pinning his defense of the President on a semantic argument that Mr. Bush was not really breaking his pledge.
''He very explicitly didn't say, 'Raise taxes,' '' Mr. Gingrich said. ''He said, 'Seek new revenues.' ''
House Democrats, after months of being pummeled on the tax issue, were having none of that interpretation. ''George Bush has announced that he is raising taxes,'' Representative Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey told the House. ''The charade is finally over.''
By the end of the day, the main focus of the tax battle had clearly shifted to Capitol Hill. When the budget negotiations resume Wednesday, the big questions will be whether the White House can contain a Republican revolt and whether the Democrats can use the opportunity Mr. Bush handed them.
 
Hunkering Down at Sunset
Sunset found the House Republican leadership hunkered down behind Mr. Gingrich's argument that Mr. Bush had said it but didn't really mean it, or maybe hadn't said it at all.
Representative Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, the ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, said, ''The President hasn't done anything except restate what he said when he opened the budget negotiations.''
But speaking of the political ramifications, he conceded: ''We're a little nervous about this. It's certainly going to make life more difficult.''
Once again, the Hill Democrats and their national party chairman were slightly out of synch among themselves. Smelling blood by late afternoon, Mr. Anthony, the Arkansas Democrat, was saying that the Republicans had a right to be agitated because Mr. Bush ''cut the legs out from them politically.''
But Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic national chairman, decreed: ''It's no time for partisan gloating. The President's statement is candid, sober and tells the American people that something has gone seriously wrong with the projections and predictions about budget policy and the U.S. economy.''
 
Comment in Massachusetts
Fittingly, the last word of what was, on balance, a rough day for the President went to a Democrat who two years ago seemed to have a hard time figuring out when to strike back at George Bush. In Boston, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, the Democratic Presidential nominee who failed two years ago to counter Mr. Bush's repeated vow of no new taxes, said he had too many budget problems in his own state to take much pleasure in the President's turnabout.
Then he added with relish: ''I told the truth, and I paid the price. Mr. Bush did not tell the truth, and now we must all pay the price.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I'm chairman of the campaign committee and we'll make it a political issue,'' said Representative Beryl F. Anthony Jr., Democrat of Arkansas, about President Bush's pledge not to raise taxes.; David A. Keene, a consultant, worried that Mr. Bush had taken a ''very dangerous'' step by giving up a ''key defining issue without what might be viewed as a significant explanation.'' (The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



685 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: BUSH NOW CONCEDES A NEED FOR 'TAX REVENUE INCREASES' TO REDUCE DEFICIT IN BUDGET

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
With negotiations on cutting the budget deficit stalled, President Bush today broke with his vow to oppose new taxes and said any agreement with Congress would require ''tax revenue increases.''
While a boom in the economy alone could theoretically produce more revenue, Mr. Bush's statement was greeted by Democrats and Republicans as a break from the central ''Read my lips: No new taxes'' pledge of his 1988 Presidential campaign and as a watershed in the battle over the Federal budget for the 1991 fiscal year.
 
No Specific Plan Was Offered
Mr. Bush did not offer a specific tax increase proposal, and he said any increase would have to be part of a package including cuts in both domestic and military spending; ''growth incentives,'' a reference to his longstanding proposal to cut the tax rate on capital gains, and changes in the budget process. He did not refer directly to specific taxes but many lawmakers involved in the budget negotiations have said an income tax rise is unlikely. Possible tax increases under discussion include a rise in the gasoline tax and higher taxes on cigarettes and alcohol. 
The President made the announcement in a written statement rather than delivering it in person, in an apparent effort to minimize political embarrassment. He avoided talking to reporters throughout the day, and when he was asked during one brief Rose Garden appearance to expand on his written words, he replied, ''I'll let the statement speak for itself.''
 
First to Broach the Issue
After weeks of maneuvering, Mr. Bush's statement, which was negotiated with the Democratic leaders in Congress, gave in to their insistence that he be the first to broach the subject of tax increases publicly. It was a position toward which he had been inching since May, when he initiated deficit-reduction talks with Congress by saying all subjects were ''on the table'' without any preconditions.
The earlier statement had been widely seen as an implicit agreement at least to discuss tax increases, but the Democrats had held out for today's more explicit language, saying that the Republicans could otherwise savage them as tax raisers in the Congressional campaigns this fall.
Congressional Democrats welcomed the statement, and the leadership tried with mixed success to be restrained in the first efforts to saddle Mr. Bush with the tax issue. ''The President has concluded that tax increases are necessary, along with other changes as specified in the statement, and we share the President's view,'' said Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader.
The Congressional Democratic leaders seemed to be under at least a tacit agreement to help Mr. Bush sell the tax issue. ''Someone who is complaining about taxes being raised in the budget summit will have to complain against both parties and the President,'' said Speaker of the House Thomas S. Foley.
With a sharper political edge, Senator Jim Sasser of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said: ''We decided we're not going to stand around and beat him on the head and shoulders. He made the pledge, and now he's rethought it. I learned from George Bush. He told us, 'Gorbachev lost the cold war, and we don't want any gloating here.' ''
Democratic and Republican lawmakers said they had warned Mr. Bush in recent days that the stalemate over taxes was threatening to scuttle the budget negotiations. Those talks have been stalled for weeks on a discussion of the budget process and the size of the deficit, now estimated at $160 billion, for the 1991 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
 
A Move to Allay Doubts
In addition to meeting Democratic concerns, today's statement was aimed, in part, at Wall Street and the Federal Reserve, to allay doubts about Washington's ability to reduce the deficit, White House officials said. They added that it also reflected two major problems looming before Mr. Bush: Unless a budget agreement is reached, Federal law will mandate automatic spending cuts larger than either he or Congress wants. In addition, Republican analysts have warned that failure to deal with the budget problems could leave Mr. Bush facing a recession during his 1992 re-election campaign.
In what appeared to be another effort to mitigate immediate political fallout from the announcement on taxes, the statement was issued on an extraordinarily busy day in Washington: Nelson Mandela was addressing a joint meeting of Congress, the Interior Department was announcing Mr. Bush's long-awaited decision to ban some offshore oil drilling, and the Agriculture and Interior Departments were announcing measures to protect the northern spotted owl's habitats among the lucrative forests of the Northwest.
The three-paragraph statement seemed to have been intended to provide only the minimum gesture demanded by the Democrats. There were vague passages, and White House officials anxiously pointed out that the statement did not commit Mr. Bush to anything.
Some Republican lawmakers insisted that it was just an effort to give Democrats enough confidence to propose a tax increase themselves.
But Mr. Bush immediately came under pressure from conservative Republicans and Democrats, who said they would urge him to make a more detailed statement to the American people about why budget cuts and tax increases were needed.
''There's a feeling that there is no pressure out there'' to raise taxes, said a senior Congressional official who has attended the budget negotiations. ''Are the people in Des Moines calling for major sacrifices? What has changed from six months ago? Why should their taxes be raised?''
 
Year Brought Reassessment
Mr. Bush began the year saying that economic growth would allow the Federal Government to cut the 1991 budget deficit to $64 billion, the ceiling set by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law, without raising taxes.
Since then, higher-than-expected interest rates, lower-than-projected corporate profits and other factors have forced the Administration to reassess its position. White House and Congressional negotiators now agree that unless steps are taken to trim the 1991 deficit, it will total about $160 billion, not counting the cost of bailing out the savings and loan industry.
''It is clear to me,'' Mr. Bush said in his statement, ''that both the size of the deficit problem and the need for a package that can be enacted require all of the following: entitlement and mandatory program reform, tax revenue increases, growth incentives, discretionary spending reductions, orderly reductions in defense expenditures and budget process reform, to assure that any bipartisan agreement is enforceable and that the deficit problem is brought under responsible control.''
 
Pledge of 1988 Campaign
With those words, Mr. Bush departed from the statement that was the linchpin of his 1988 campaign. ''The Congress will push me to raise taxes,'' he said during his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention, ''and I'll say no, and they'll push, and I'll say no, and they'll push again, and I'll say to them, 'Read my lips: No new taxes.' ''
It was not clear from his statement how far Mr. Bush was willing to go, but he touched on these issues:
* ''Entitlement and mandatory program reform,'' presumably reductions and other changes in the programs that pay benefits automatically and not at Congressional discretion. These include Medicare and Social Security, but neither Mr. Bush nor Democratic lawmakers talked about specific programs today. Retirement benefits are unlikely to be reduced, but more of the benefits could be subject to income taxes.
* ''Tax revenue increases,'' which Democrats took to mean tax rate increases. The White House did not dispute that, although some Republicans suggested that the term could simply mean an increase in revenues from economic growth.
* ''Growth incentives'' - code for a cut in the capital gains tax rate - a proposal that Mr. Bush has been pushing since the 1988 campaign. Its inclusion in the statement could reflect a willingness among the Democratic leadership to pass such a reduction.
* ''Discretionary spending reductions'' - cuts in programs other than Medicare, Social Security and the like.
* ''Budget process reform'' - Mr. Bush's proposals for multiyear spending agreements, the line-item veto and a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.
Marlin Fitzwater, the President's spokesman, refused to be pinned down on any point. ''Are you crazy?'' he responded when asked whether he could say that Mr. Bush ''has agreed to break his pledge of 'no new taxes.' ''
Asked whether Mr. Bush regretted his campaign pledge, Mr. Fitzwater said: ''We feel he said the right thing then. He's saying the right thing now.''
 
Bush's Latest On the Budget
WASHINGTON, June 26 - Following is the statement issued by President Bush today on deficit-reduction efforts:
I met this morning with the bipartisan leadership - the Speaker, the Senate majority leader, the Senate Republican leader, the House majority leader and the House Republican leader - to review the status of the deficit-reduction negotiations.
It is clear to me that both the size of the deficit problem and the need for a package that can be enacted require all of the follwoing: entitlement and mandatory program reform, tax revenue increases, growth incentives, discretionary spending reductions, orderly reductions in defense expenditures and budget process reform, to assure that any bipartisan agreement is enforceable and that the deficit problem is brought under responsible control. The bipartisan leadership agree with me on these points.
The budget negotiations will resume promptly with a view toward reaching substantive agreement as quickly as possible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); TAX INCREASES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FUEL TAX (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 



686 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: Banks Approve Loans for Trump, But Take Control of His Finances

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
Wrapping up a hard-fought deal with bankers yesterday, Donald J. Trump narrowly avoided missing a payment deadline that could have led to personal bankruptcy.
But for the developer, who once seemed nearly invincible, the deal comes at a humbling cost: He has been forced to cede management control over his multibillion-dollar empire, at least temporarily, to the bankers who came to his rescue, and he must learn to live on $450,000 a month, and even less in future years.
Yesterday morning, in the first part of a two-stage rescue for the 44-year-old developer, some of the nation's largest banks wired $20 million to a Trump bank account to help him meet a midnight deadline to make a $43 million payment to holders of some high-yield ''junk bonds'' backing one of his Atlantic City casinos. Mr. Trump provided the remaining $23 million in cash and bonds. 
The cost for Mr. Trump is that his bankers, who in the past had eagerly backed his grand visions, now have him on a short leash. His every move, including his personal expenditures, will be scrutinized. But he has maintained ownership of his empire, and in that small victory could lie the seeds of a comeback - if the real estate and casino markets cooperate. [Page D5.] If he had missed yesterday's payment, he would have defaulted on loans backed by Trump's Castle and probably would have lost that casino to creditors. Such a default would have set off a chain of defaults that could have forced him to seek bankruptcy protection.
About 70 banks, with one German holdout, also approved a $65 million loan package for the developer yesterday that will defer much of his bank debt for up to five years.
The banks may seem lenient, but their decision to rescue Mr. Trump is partly an attempt to try to recoup as much as possible of what they have lent to him. Yesterday's deal includes incentives for Mr. Trump to sell many of his major holdings to raise cash. That cash would then be used to pay back the new loans and to pay some interest and return some principal on the loans they have made to him over the last decade.
The banks justified lending Mr. Trump more money by saying they would be hurt if the developer was forced to sell his assets at fire-sale prices because he would not be able to repay them fully. They also wanted to avoid a bankruptcy filing because the sale of assets would then be determined by a bankruptcy court judge. The banks hope the new cash will give Mr. Trump time to oversee the orderly sale of many of his assets at prices that would allow him to meet his obligations.
 
Name Put on Large Properties
In exchange for the $65 million loan package and the deferral of interest and principal payments on nearly $850 million in debt, Mr. Trump must give up control of his personal and business finances. The flamboyant developer, who has put his name on almost all his large properties, has been told by the banks that he cannot spend more than $450,000 a month on personal and household expenses for the rest of the year. Next year, he will be limited to $375,000 a month, and in 1992 to $300,000.
Moreover, he has had to submit a monthly business plan for the bankers' approval. That plan has projections on the income and expenses of each of Mr. Trump's assets. Lawyers involved in the negotiations said the banks will regularly require detailed explanations of every aspect of Mr. Trump's various businesses and will review, item by item, every receipt and disbursement.
''He will have to give monthly, quarterly and yearly reports on each asset,'' said an attorney involved in the talks, ''and he will have to explain any significant variances from the business plan.''
Mr. Trump, whose $29 million yacht and $365 million Trump Shuttle airline are both up for sale, said in an interview yesterday that the trouble he has had meeting his debt obligations has actually been good for his name and the mystique some attach to it. ''I think it has greatly enhanced it,'' he said of the name's aura. ''There was a media stampede, but when you come through adversity, I think people respect that.''
 
'Credit Crunch' Cited
He also asserted that a nationwide credit squeeze was one cause of his problems. ''If the United States doesn't do something about the credit crunch,'' he said, ''you will have far worse than a bad recession.''
The $65 million loan package, which will immediately pay back yesterday's $20 million short-term loan once the documentation is made final, received the approval of all Mr. Trump's bank lenders except one West German bank, Dresdner A.G.. For several weeks now a few major Japanese and European banks had balked at lending Mr. Trump more money and rolling over much of the mountain of debt he has amassed, but as of yesterday all the banks except Dresdner joined in the agreement, and bankers said the German bank would probably join next month.
A banker close to the talks said the larger loan package would go ahead despite the refusal of Dresdner to approve it. ''On re-reading the documents, the lawyers have said that it is not necessary to get every single lender to approve a subordinated lien on the property, and there is also a sense that over the next 30 days Dresdner might come on board,'' he added.
Although Mr. Trump will remain chief executive of the Trump Organization, the company that oversees most of his various businesses, much of his authority to make the large decisions that direct the course of that company and its subsidiaries has been taken from him.
 
Tight Rein by Banks
By accepting or rejecting parts of the business plan drawn up by the Trump Organization and by bringing in a chief financial officer approved by them, the banks will keep a tight rein on the Trump empire.
Mr. Trump, who according to his own best-selling book has mastered the art of the deal, has for several weeks faced what was probably the most important deal of his career. Bankers said that when the developer told them he would not be able to make all the interest payments on his nearly $2 billion of bank debts this year, weeks of arduous international negotiations began that resulted in the loan agreements.
A victim of both the downturn of the Northeastern real estate market as well as the softening of the gaming business in Atlantic City, Mr. Trump's vast holdings could not generate the income necessary to make interest and principal payments on $2 billion of bank debt and about $1 billion in junk bond debt.
On June 15, Mr. Trump failed to make a $43 million payment on bonds issued to finance Trump's Castle Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City, and a $30 million payment on a personally guaranteed loan due to Manufacturers Hanover. That put the developer in technical default on those bonds, but a grace period allowed him until midnight Tuesday to make the payment. $60 Million Credit Line To avoid the losses they would suffer if Mr. Trump filed for bankruptcy protection, the major New York banks that were his largest lenders -Citibank, Bankers Trust, Chase Manhattan and Manufacturers Hanover - came up with a plan to provide him with a $60 million credit line. That credit line was eventually raised to $65 million.
Over the last two weeks several Japanese and European banks in bank syndicates holding loans to Mr. Trump refused to participate in the new loan package, which will be backed by additional liens on almost every one of the developer's assets.
These banks, which included many of the world's largest commercial banks, initially refused to allow additional liens on the properties that were securing their loans. Many of them delayed approving the deal in hopes that the large American banks would take them out of the deal entirely by buying the chunks of loans to Mr. Trump that they had originally bought from the New York banks.
As part of the larger loan package, Mr. Trump will be allowed to buy back securities that represent the interest on his debt that has been rolled over. The banks are encouraging the developer to buy back these securities with the proceeds he gains from selling his assets. If he sells the assets quickly and purchases the securities then he will get discounted rates.
After he has sold a certain amount of assets, the banks will allow him to keep for himself some of the proceeds from the sales, but initially all the money from the sales will be used to service Mr. Trump's debts.
 
First Big Deal in 1976
For a man who has amassed such wealth and become such a national celebrity, Mr. Trump has been in business for a relatively short time. Donald John Trump, one of five children born to a Queens housing developer, made his first big deal in 1976 when New York was in the throes of one of its worst fiscal crises.
Mr. Trump, then 30 years old, persuaded the bankrupt Penn Central Railroad to sell him the dilapidated Commodore Hotel, which adjoins Grand Central Terminal, for $10 million, and he then won a $120 million tax abatement from the city. He persuaded bankers to lend him about $80 million and went on to build, along with partners, the glittering Grand Hyatt Hotel.
It was the Grand Hyatt, which opened in 1980, that made the young developer a presence in the New York real estate market, and he used his 50 percent interest in that project to borrow more money from the banks to build other projects.
 
Demand for Luxury Housing
Mr. Trump went on to build a fortune by catering to the demand for New York City luxury housing. One of his most well-known projects, Trump Tower, a glitzy Fifth Avenue residential and commercial skyscraper next to Tiffany & Company that he built in 1982 at a cost of about $200 million, has become a tourist attraction.
The young developer, whose name became synonymous with flamboyant wealth and glittering extravagance, became extremely wealthy throughout the 1980's. He eventually went into the Atlantic City casino business, in 1984 buying what became the Trump Plaza.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Wednesday and another on June 16, listing Donald J. Trump's holdings, described one property incorrectly.
 
Mr. Trump bought the Foundling
Hospital Building in Manhattan in 1985, and the hospital moved in 1988; the Trump Palace, a condominium tower, is now under development at that site. The June 16 chart also listed one entry erroneously. The Trump Plaza, a residential cooperative in Manhattan built by a Trump company, was sold in 1982.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP'S CASTLE FUNDING INC (54%); TRUMP'S CASTLE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP ORGANIZATION

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT; FINANCES, PERSONAL INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); APPROVALS (68%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (93%); 



687 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: BUSH CUTS BACK AREAS OFF COASTS OPEN FOR DRILLING

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
Seeking to break a long deadlock with Congress over offshore oil and gas drilling, President Bush today sharply reduced the offshore acreage available to the industry for at least the next decade.
Mr. Bush blocked new drilling off the coasts of much of California, Florida, Washington, Oregon and New England until at least the year 2000. He also permanently blocked any drilling in a marine sanctuary he created in California and ordered a delay on new leases until 1996 for an area of Southern California where drilling is already under way.
His decision is a significant departure from the offshore leasing policies of the Reagan Administration, which tried to make the entire 1.4-million-acre outer continental shelf available to industry. That plan has largely been stalled in Congress. 
 
Politics Seen as Consideration
By making some areas off limits, particularly those off California and Florida, the Administration seemed to be hoping that it would get approval from Congress for opening up oil exploration on the North Carolina coast and Alaska and leave open the possibility of future leasing in Florida and California. The plan requires no Congressional approval, but Congress has power over it by controlling the appropriation of money for it.
Today's proposal also seemed to serve a political purpose, because many voters in Florida and California fear that drilling poses a potential threat to marine life.
The Republican Party is eager win the governors' races in California and Florida, since the winners will play an important role in Congressional reapportionment and both states stand to gain seats. Gov. Bob Martinez, a Republican, is seeking re-election in Florida and Senator Pete Wilson, also a Republican, is trying to become California's next governor.
A substantial amount of drilling is already going on in the Gulf of Mexico, off California and off Alaska.
The President's long-awaited decision did not please environmentalists and coastal communities, who are seeking permanent protection of the coastal areas. Nor did it please the oil industry, which called the new policy a ''serious mistake'' that would cost the nation millions of barrels of oil and billions of dollars in revenues.
 
In a 'Sound Manner'
In a statement issued at the White House, Mr. Bush said the decision reflected his belief ''that the development of oil and gas on the outer continental shelf should occur in an environmentally sound manner.''
In his announcement, Mr. Bush said the sale of leases off Florida and Southern California would be put off until at least the year 2000. About 87 tracts off San Luis Obispo in Southern California will be put up for sale after 1995, but only if studies find that they will not harm the environment or local economies.
The President also said he was creating a national marine sanctuary in central California's Monterey Bay that would be permanently off limits to drilling or other development.
In a surprise, the President also announced he is cancelling lease sales on the Georges Bank off New England and off the coasts of Oregon and Washington.
The new policy will not stop development in areas of the outer continental shelf that already are being drilled. But it does affect a number of areas that the Interior Department has scheduled to be leased to industry and, in the case of Florida, to a number of tracts that have already been leased but not yet explored and drilled.
Lease sales may also proceed in areas not covered by the President's announcement, including waters off Alaska, the Gulf Coast, North Carolina and the Mid-Atlantic off New York and New Jersey.
Since the Reagan Administration announced plans for opening the entire outer continental shelf to oil and gas development, Congress has effectively blocked drilling in many sensitive coastal areas, including Florida and California, by denying the Interior Department the money for conducting lease sales.
The Congressional moratorium reflected the concerns of coastal communities and environmentalists, who feared that offshore development on the scale envisioned by former Interior Secretary James G. Watt would seriously threaten the environment and local economies dependent on fishing and tourism.
Mr. Watt and other Reagan Administration officials insisted that rapid development of the energy resources of the outer continental shelf was needed to protect national security and the nation's economy from excessive dependence on foreign oil. The United States imports 50 percent of its oil.
Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr., whose department oversees the offshore leasing program said at a news conference today, ''At the heart of President Bush's announcement is this Administration's commitment to prohibit offshore drilling in areas where environmental risks outweigh the potential energy benefits to the nation.''
But Mr. Lujan also indicated that the President's action was intended to break the the deadlock with Congress when he said that ''recent tanker accidents underscore the need to produce as much oil as posssible in the United States, onshore and offshore.''
Mr. Lujan said that today's decision is ''the all-important first step'' in reshaping the Government program for developing the oil and gas resources of the outer continental shelf.
 
'Areas of Critical Concern'
But environmentalists and other critics of the President's decision said Congressional action was still needed to protect areas not covered by today's decision. Lisa Speer, a senior scientist for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the many ''areas of critical concern'' were still vulnerable, including Alaska's Bristol Bay, the northern Gulf coast of Florida and the Mid-Atlantic region.
Environmentalists complained that the President left himself a loophole in his decision to cancel the leases by stating that leasing could resume in case oil supplies from foreign sources was interrupted. They considered the decision a step in the right direction but were disappointed that it did not offer permanent protection to sensitive areas.
Robert Sulnick, executive director of the National Oceans Campaign, a nonprofit group dedicated to protecting the marine environment, said: ''While the President's decision moves in the right direction, we are concerned it was based on political motivation rather than environmental sensitivity. What the nation needs is not a temporary reprieve from offshore oil drilling, but a national energy policy based on conservation and renewable fuels.''
Oil industry officials said the President's decision would substantially reduce the total amount of oil that would be taken from the outer continental shelf at least until well into the next century. The American Petroleum Institute, a trade group of major oil companies, estimated that as a result of the policy the country will lose about two million barrels of oil a day, about a fourth of current domestic production.
In a statement made public today, the institute complained: ''These decisions on offshore oil and natural gas leasing are harmful to our country and economy. They will lead to decreased domestic production, more imports , more dependency on OPEC, more tanker traffic, and the export of jobs and investment overseas.''
''Locking up these energy-rich lands at a time when our dependency on foreign energy is escalating,'' the statement said, ''is a serious mistake.''

GRAPHIC: Map of the United States highlighting the oil leasing areas affected by Bush's decision. (source: Department of the Interior) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: MONTEREY BAY ONCOLOGY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; WASHINGTON (STATE); OREGON; FLORIDA; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US)

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); POLITICS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); REDISTRICTING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



688 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Softening Stand on Spotted Owl, Administration Delays Protection

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 26

 BODY:
Just four days after the Federal Government declared that the northern spotted owl was a threatened species, the Bush Administration announced today that it was delaying action on a broad plan for protecting the birds and the ancient forests that are their home.
While Government officials had been expected today to release detailed plans for managing the owls' habitat, in fact the only plan announced affected just a small part of the forest at issue, that part overseen by the Bureau of Land Management. And while bureau officials said they could protect the owl on their land at a cost of only 1,000 logging jobs, they gave no specifics on how they would do this.
The much larger part of the owls' habitat is Forest Service land, and a new study group will be formed to report to President Bush by Sept. 1 on how to manage that habitat. Federal officials have consistently said that broad protection for the owl would cost up to 28,000 jobs in the timber industry in the next 10 years by reducing the amount of logging allowed on up to 4 million acres of forest. 
 
Change in Act to Be Sought
The Administration also said today that it would seek changes in the Endangered Species Act, including provisions that would make it easier to allow some species to diminish if preserving them would cause severe economic disruption. Any effort to revise the 1973 act is expected to face an uphill battle in Congress.
Administration officials said that they supported the idea of saving wildlife but that they wanted more balance in the law.
''We take the Endangered Species Act seriously and will implement the law faithfully,'' said Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter, whose department oversees the Forest Service. ''We have set in motion a process to balance our responsibility in preserving the owl and the forests while protecting the economic lives of American men and women who live and work in the region.''
The Administration actions today followed the widely expected decision on Friday by the Fish and Wildlife Service to formally list the owl as a threatened species. That action, which takes effect July 23, makes it a violation of Federal law to do anything that contributes to the owl's decline and Federal officials said today that any logging they approve in the next three months will not reduce the owl habitat.
There was immediate criticism in Congress of the announcement, by Mr. Yeutter and Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr., that they would set up a group to study how to balance the conflicts of logging and about 3,000 pairs of owls.
''By putting off the tough decision now a difficult problem will only get worse,'' said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who is chairman of a committee that oversees forestry.
The announcement also angered environmentalists, who said the Administration was retreating from an agreement that has bipartisan support. And they were particularly critical of the proposal to revise the Endangered Species Act.
''The Bush Administration proposal would be the Tiananmen Square for American wildlife,'' said Andy Kerr, conservation director of the Oregon Natural Resources Council, which has sought protection of the owl for the last decade.
Nor did the announcement today satisfy leaders of the timber industry, who said any further delay in devising a long-term plan for managing the forests would increase the economic uncertainty in timber towns of the Northwest.
''There are many unanswered questions, and we need these answers as soon as possible,'' said Pat Amedo, a consultant for several timber companies that cut trees on national forest land.
This is the second time in as many months that the Administration has suggested modifying the Endangered Species Act.
Last month, when Mr. Lujan first raised the issue, he was widely criticized by leaders of both parties in Congress. But his suggestions have support in Western states where jobs have been pared or developments held up to save rare species.
Since passage of the act, 577 species have been declared threatened or endangered. Both classifications mandate remedies to save the species, but endangered is considered a more critical status. The last time Congress reauthorized the act, in 1988, the House voted in favor of renewing the bill by a vote of 399 to 16, and the Senate voted in favor by 93 to 2.
Right now the only way that Federal officials can get around the restrictions of the Endangered Species Act is to take the difficult and time-consuming step of convening what some officials refer to as the ''God Committee.'' This panel, made up of officials from several Federal agencies, got its nickname because its members control the fate of a species in a given area. The changes proposed today would make it easier to invoke economic considerations without going to the step of calling together the committee.
 
Committee May Be Called
But because it is likely to take some time for Congress to consider changing the law, the Bush Admininstration today indicated it would probably call together the special committee to determine the fate of the owl in certain parts of the Northwest.
''It looks to me like the President has declare war on the Endangered Species Act,'' said George Frampton, director of the Wilderness Society, one of the leaders in the fight to curtail Federal logging that is responsible for the cutting of 70,000 acres of ancient forests a year.
The environmental groups indicated that they might refile lawsuits that held up logging in half the national forests of the Northwest last year unless the new committee comes up with an adequate plan.
Environmentalists say that the owl is their best weapon for preserving the fragile ecosystem of the forest. The bird has been found to live exclusively in the centuries-old stands of Douglas fir, cedar, redwoods and spruce of the Pacific Northwest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT OF 1973

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; BIRDS; OWLS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 



689 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9

 
Workers in East Germany are busy.The whole country seems to be in the process of dismantling itself in anticipation of the economic merger with West Germany on July 1. Page A1

 
West Germans get ready to scrub the East's environment
 A6

 
Prague journal: Ghosts of old heroes inhabit a new paper A4

 
The 12 European Community leaders agreed on a series of steps requested by Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany to reassure the Soviet Union on German unification. A1

 
The Soviet Communist Party is debating whether to delay its important nationwide congress next week, in an attempt to hold back a conservative uprising that is already driving disenchanted liberals from the party. A7 
 
 
The Vatican issued a strong edict telling Roman Catholic theologians that they had no right to dissent publicly from official church teachings, even from teachings not considered infallible or explicitly based on divine revelation in Scripture. A1
 
Debate raged in Iran's Government and in newspapers over the propriety of accepting earthquake relief aid from what are seen as the nation's enemies, including the U.S., Iraq and the novelist Salman Rushdie. A3

 
Town blames avarice for earthquake deaths A3

 
The collapse of a Canadian accord on the status of Quebec has once more left unresolved the question of how to institutionalize the province's cultural differences. A2

 
Leaders of Israel's new Government broke into apparent disagreement over whether any Soviet Jews would be settled in the occupied territories, adding further confusion to Housing Minister Ariel Sharon's statement that they would not. A8

 
The U.S. would cut aid to El Salvador by as much as 30 percent under a proposal quietly being advocated by the Bush Administration. The initiative comes in response to deeper cuts proposed by the Democrats. A9

 
China exile starts life in Britain A2

 
National A10-16, B6

 
President Bush broke with his vow to oppose new taxes and said any agreement with Congress would require ''tax revenue increases.'' His statement was seen as a watershed in the battle over the Federal budget for the 1991 fiscal year. A1

 
Conservatives complained loudly, and even moderate Republicans worried that Mr. Bush had crippled his party by abandoning his campaign pledge not to raise taxes. A1

 
Movement on the budget, but a big gulf to cross B6

 
The acreage for offshore drilling available to the oil and gas industry was sharply reduced for at least the next decade by President Bush. He was seeking to break a long deadlock in Congress over the issue. A1

 
The plan to protect ancient forests in the Northwest where the northern spotted owl lives was stalled by the Bush Administration, which announced that it was going to delay action and study the issue further. A1

 
Nelson Mandela spoke to Congress. Frequently interrupted by applause, he invoked the names of American heroes as his revolutionary inspiration, warning that South Africa ''continues to bleed and suffocate'' under apartheid. A11

 
Far rightists meet de Klerk and come away dissatisfied A11

 
The prosecution in the Barry trial put Mayor Barry on the stand via a tape-recording in an effort to prove its most serious charges against him -that he lied to a grand jury. A10
 
News analysis: The Supreme Court took the first tentative steps into new territory by ruling that the Constitution protects a person's liberty to reject the technology that sustains life. A16

 
Missouri is urged to aid woman in coma A16

 
Abortion ruling likely to spur judicial hearings A14

 
Louisiana lawmakers adopt tough anti-abortion law A14

 
Senate and Administration agree on housing bill A10

 
Senate rejects new move to outlaw flag burning B6

 
The homicide rate among young men in the U.S. is 4 to 73 times higher than in other industrialized nations, Federal researchers have reported. Firearms were used in three-fourths of the killings in this country and in only one-fourth of those overseas. A10

 
Killers are executed in Arkansas and Texas B6

 
F.D.A. approves heart drug made by Soviets A13

 
A.M.A. assails nation's export policy on tobacco A12

 
Regional B1-4

 
A last-minute deal by Donald Trump allowed him to avoid missing a payment deadline that could have led to personal bankruptcy. But he was forced to cede management control over his multibillion-dollar empire to the banks that rescued him. A1

 
A candidate for superintendent of a Brooklyn community school district was rejected by Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez. He said he based his decision on the official's flawed leadership as a principal and his personal conduct. B1

 
Judge berates school officials for neglecting handicapped B2

 
Taxes are the talk of New Jersey. For some, the $2.8 billion package represents the return of an avaricious government after the hiatus of the 1980's. For others, they represent an unfortunate but necessary new direction for the state. B1
 
Race relations in New York City are bad and getting worse, many residents believe, according to a New York Times/WCBS-TV News poll. But New Yorkers do not sense a deterioration in their own relationships with members of other races. B1

 
Minorities gain in New York labor force B2

 
Two cyclists described their terror as they were attacked in Central Park by a gang of youths who soon after, prosecutors charge, raped and beat a young jogger. B1

 
The defense rests in Marcos trial B2

 
CUNY teacher details shooting Bronx neighbor B3

 
Three teen-agers are shot in Brooklyn B3

 
$10.8 million stolen from armored car near Rochester B3

 
Lower fees are voted for Fresh Kills B2

 
New York acts to take over co-op B4

 
Business Digest D1
 
The Living Section

 
Food
 
''Scene'' restaurants trade hype for longevity C1

 
De Gustibus C1

 
At the Nation's Table C3

 
Wine Talk C10

 
Living
 
While stylists trim, clients cut deals C1

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Recording academy plans protest against restraints C12

 
Plan to cut Broadway ticket prices C13

 
Pearl Bailey philosophizes C16

 
Film: Tom Cruise in ''Thunder'' C13

 
Word and Image: Conversations with Havel C17

 
Obituaries

 
Adm. Robert B. Carney, former chief of Naval operations D21

 
Eleanor Clark French, editor and Democratic Party official D21

 
Rabbi Wolfe Kelman, leader in Judaism's Conservatie branch D21

 
Sports

 
Baseball: Mets defeat Cardinals in 11 innings A19

 
Yankees beat Brewers A21

 
Column: Vecsey on World Cup A19

 
Golf: Strongest field ever for Senior Open A19

 
Soccer: England triumphs A20

 
Tennis: McEnroe falls A19

 
Education Pages

 
Princeton to receive $21 million from Laurance Rockefeler B8
 
Montessori education returning to its democratic roots B9

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A22

 
Doing justice to life
 
The Cruzans, pain and triumph
 
A living will
 
Clinging to unity in Canada
 
Letters A22

 
Russell Baker: Fixing the ''Ring'' A23

 
Dov S. Zakheim: Japan's military-industrial machine A23

 
David A. Kaplan: Killing the rights of the condemned A23

 
John N. Rosenthal: Today's comics - no joke A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (55%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (56%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS B6 (79%); BRITAIN A2 (71%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); WRITERS (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



690 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: The Mandela Visit;
Mandela Invokes Struggles Of U.S., Rousing Congress

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
Frequently interrupted by applause, Nelson Mandela invoked the names of American heroes as his revolutionary inspiration at a joint meeting of Congress today, warning that South Africa ''continues to bleed and suffer pain'' under apartheid.
''We would be fools to believe that the road ahead of us is without major hurdles,'' despite belief in the personal integrity of President F. W. de Klerk, Mr. Mandela said as he pressed his whirlwind tour of America through a second day in official Washington.
''Our people continue to die to this day, victims of armed agents of the state who are still determined to turn their guns against the very idea of a racial democracy,'' he told the packed, rapt chamber of the House of Representatives.
 
Calls Some Whites Intransigent
''Too many among our white compatriots are steeped in the ideology of racism to admit easily that change must come,'' said Mr. Mandela, who is deputy president of the African National Congress. 
He added, in a pointed reference to his rebuff on Monday of President Bush's call for his organization to renounce violence, ''For those who care about violence in our country, as we do, it is at these forces that they should focus their attention.''
But on the issue of sanctions against the current Government of South Africa, Mr. Mandela said he was happy with what he said was an understanding with the Bush Administration and Congress that sanctions would remain in effect. He said that ''the purpose for which they were imposed has not been achieved'' and urged that ''the people of South Africa'' be allowed to decide when they should be lifted.
The galleries overhead were jammed, as was the standing room at the back of the House. An overflow crowd sat in 250 seats in the Statuary Hall and watched on four large television sets.
The House chamber is rarely filled for joint meetings receiving visitors, but today was an exception, with even jaded lawmakers reacting as fans in the presence of a celebrity, reaching out to touch Mr. Mandela and, more important, to be photographed with him.
Trying to provide tickets for all who wanted to come was a logistical headache for the Democratic leaders, who called the handful of Republicans who had vowed not to attend to see if they could sponge tickets for some of the minor political and show-business figures who wanted to be part of the scene. Many lawmakers brought spouses or children.
 
He Follows Havel and Walesa
Mr. Mandela was the first black private citizen to address Congress, and the third recent revolutionary leader and former political prisoner - after President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslavakia and Lech Walesa of Poland. For the 24 black Representatives, his visit was an emotional moment.
Representative Kweisi Mfume, a Democrat from Baltimore, who was born Frizzell Gray, stood proudly on an aisle wearing a black sash with gold and red African embroidery over the left shoulder of his dark business suit.
''This has been an extraordinary day,'' said Representative Ron Dellums, Democrat of California, the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus and a leader in the fight to impose sanctions, who was visibly moved.
A standing ovation lasting three and a half minutes greeted the tall, dignified Mr. Mandela as he strode into chamber in a dark gray suit, and his 45-minute speech was interrupted 16 times for bursts of applause, three of which turned into standing ovations.
He waved to the crowd with an open hand; no clenched fists today.
Perhaps Mr. Mandela's deftest touch was evoking a litany of white and black Americans - a kind of wrapping himself in the American flag - to justify a revolutionary tradition. As the names rolled off in his lilting accent, there were first a few whoops and cries of ''Right on!'' from the gallery, and as he wound up the passage, the lawmakers rose in applause.
''We could not have made an acquaintance through literature with human giants such as George Washington, Abraham Lincoln and Thomas Jefferson and not been moved to act,'' Mr. Mandela said. ''We could not have heard of and admired John Brown, Sojourner Truth, Frederick Douglass, W. E. B. Du Bois, Marcus Garvey, Martin Luther King Jr. and others . . . and not be moved to act as they were moved to act.
''We could not have known of your Declaration of Independence and not elected to join in the struggle to guarantee the people's life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,'' he said to thunderous applause.
Mr. Mandela sought to ease fears that the African National Congress would seek to impose a Marxist economy but emphasized that political change ''must and will also entail the transformation of its economy.''
''The A.N.C. holds no ideological postions which dictate that it must adopt a policy of nationalization,'' Mr. Mandela said. ''But the A.N.C. also holds the view that there is no self-regulating mechanism within the South African economy which will on its own insure growth with equity.''
Mr. Mandela went on to say that ''the private sector is an engine of growth and development which is critical to the success of the mixed economy we hope to see,'' offering assurances that foreign and South African business people would ''have confidence in the security of their investments,'' a fair rate of return and ''conditions of stability and peace.''
 
Indictment of Present System
But, with characteristic bluntness, he said it was ''inevitable that the democratic government will intervene in this economy, acting through the elected parliament,'' and he eloquently indicted the present system.
''The extent of the deprivation of millions of people has to be seen to be believed,'' he said. ''The injury is made that much more intolerable by the opulence of our white compatriots and the deliberate distorion of the economy to feed that opulence.''
In the evening, Mr. Mandela gave a rousing sermon to more than 20,000 people at the Washington Convention Center. The crowd began arriving in the midday heat and was held up by heavy security for several hours.
Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr., who is on trial in a drug case that is vying with the Mandela visit for attention in Washington, was cheered when he reached the speaker's platform.
Mr. Mandela looked tired and appeared to nod off occasionally during a speech by the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Mandela with members of the House and the Senate after addressing a joint meeting of Congress yesterday morning. ''Too many among our white compatriots are slaves in the ideologoy of recism to admit easily that change must come,'' he said. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); POLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS RACE & RACISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CELEBRITIES (68%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON; KIFNER, JOHN GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 



691 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: The Mandel Visit;
Excerpts From Mandela Speech to Joint Meeting of Congress

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Nelson Mandela's speech to a joint meeting of Congress yesterday in Washington, as recorded by The New York Times:
It is a fact of the human condition that it shall - like a meteor, a mere brief passing moment in time and space - flit across the human stage and pass out of existence. . . . And so we have come to Washington in the District of Columbia, and into these hallowed chambers of the United States Congress, not as pretenders to greatness but as a particle of a people whom we know to be noble and heroic, enduring, multiplying, permanent, rejoicing in the expectation and knowledge that their humanity will be reaffirmed and enlarged by open and unfettered communion with the nations of the world.
 
A Call for Democracy
Our people demand democracy. Our country, which continues to bleed and suffer pain, needs democracy. It cries out for the situation where the law will decree that freedom to speak of freedom constitutes the very essence of legality and the very thing that makes for the legitimacy of the constitutional order. . . . We fight for and visualize a future in which all shall, without regard to race, color, creed or sex, have the right to vote and to be voted into all elective organs of state. 
To deny any person their human rights is to challenge their very humanity. To impose on them a wretched life of hunger and deprivation is to dehumanize them. But such has been the terrible fate of all black persons in our country under the system of apartheid.
The extent of the deprivation of millions of people has to be seen to be believed. The injury is made that more intolerable by the opulence of our white compatriots and the deliberate distortion of the economy to feed that opulence.
 
A Change in the Economy
The process of the reconstruction of South African society must and will also entail the transformation of its economy. We need a strong and growing economy. We require an economy that is able to address the needs of all the people of our country; that can provide food, houses, education, health services, social security and everything that makes human life human; that makes life joyful and not a protracted encounter with hopelessness and despair.
We believe that the fact of the apartheid structure of the South African economy and the enormous and pressing needs of the people make it inevitable that the democratic government will intervene in this economy, acting through the elected parliament.
We are accordingly committed to the creation of the situation in which business people, both South African and foreign, have confidence in the security of their investments, are assured of a fair rate of return on their capital, and do business in conditions of stability and peace.
 
An Economic Cooperation
We would like to approach the issue of our economic cooperation, not as a relationship between donor and recipient, between a dependent and a benefactor. We would like to believe that there is a way in which we could structure this relationship so that we do indeed benefit from your enormous resources in terms of your capital, technology, all-round expertise, your enterprising spirit and your markets.
This relationship should, however, be one from which your people should also derive benefit so that we, who are fighting to liberate the very spirit of an entire people from the bondage of the arrogance of the ideology and practice of white supremacy, do not build a relationship of subservient dependency and fawning gratitude. One of the benefits that should accrue to both our peoples and to the rest of the world should surely be that this complex South African society, which has known nothing but racism for three centuries, should be transformed into an oasis of good race relations where the black shall to the white be sister and brother, a fellow South African, and equal human being, both citizens of the world.
 
A Means to Negotiate
In a sense, we do not know the meaning of peace except in the imagination. But because we have not known true peace in its real meaning, because for centuries generations have had to bury the victims of state violence, we have fought for the right to experience peace.
On the initiative of the A.N.C., the process toward the conclusion of a peaceful settlement has started. According to a logic dictated by our situation, we are engaged in an effort which includes the removal of obstacles to negotiations.
This will be followed by a negotiated determination of the mechanism which will draw up the new constitution. This should lead to the formation of this constitution-making institution and, therefore, the elaboration and adoption of a democratic constitution.
Elections would then be held on the basis of this constitution. And, for the first time, South Africa would have a body of lawmakers which would, like yourselves, be mandated by the whole people.
Despite the admitted commitment of President de Klerk to walk this road with us, and despite our acceptance of his integrity and honesty of his purposes, we would be fools to believe that the road ahead of us is without major hurdles. Too many among our white compatriots are steeped in the ideology of racism to admit easily that change must come.
 
The Economic Sanctions
For those who care to worry about violence in our country, as we do, it is at these forces that they should focus their attention, a process in which we are engaged. We must contend still with the reality that South Africa is a country in the grip of the apartheid crime against humanity. . . .
Therefore, we say we still have a struggle on our hands; our common and noble efforts to abolish the system of white minority domination must continue. We are encouraged and strengthened by the fact of the agreement between ourselves and this Congress, as well as President Bush and his Administration, that sanctions will remain in place. Sanctions should remain in place because the purpose for which they were imposed has not yet been achieved.
We would like to take this opportunity to thank you all for the principled struggle you waged which resulted in the adoption of the historic, comprehensive anti-apartheid act which made such a decisive contribution to the process of moving our country forward toward negotiations. We request that you go further and assist us with the material resources which will enable us to promote the peace process, and meet other needs which arise from the changing situation you have helped to bring about.
 
Champions of Freedom
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, Senators and Representatives, we went to jail because it was impossible to still - to sit still while the obscenity of the apartheid system was being imposed on our people.
It would have been immoral to keep quiet while a racist tyranny sought to reduce an entire people into a status worse than that of the beasts of the forest. It would have been an act of treason against the people and against our conscience to allow fear and the drive toward self-preservation to dominate our behavior, obliging us to absent ourselves from the struggle for democracy and human rights, not only in our country, but throughout the world.
We could not have made an acquaintance through literature with human giants such as George Washington, Abraham Lincoln and Thomas Jefferson and not been moved to act, as they were moved to act.
We could not have heard of and admired John Brown, Sojourner Truth, Frederick Douglass, W. E. B. Du Bois, Marcus Garvey, Martin Luther King Jr. and others.
We could not have heard of these and not be moved to act as they were moved to act. We could not have known of your Declaration of Independence and not elected to join in the struggle to guarantee the people's life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
We are grateful to you all that you persisted in your resolve to help us and other political prisoners released from jail. You have given us the gift and privilege to rejoin our people, yourselves and the rest of the international community in the common effort to transform South Africa into a united, a democratic and nonracial country.
You have given us the power to join hands with all people of conscience to fight for the victory of democracy and human rights throughout the world.
We are glad that you merged with our own people to make it possible for us to emerge from the darkness of the prison cell and join the contemporary process of the renewal of the world. We thank you most sincerely for all you have done and count on you to persist in your noble endeavor to free the rest of our political prisoners and to emancipate our people from the larger prison that is apartheid South Africa.
The day may not be far when we will borrow the words of Thomas Jefferson and speak of the will of the South African nation in the exercise of that will by this united nation of black and white people it must surely be that there will be born a country on the southern tip of Africa which you will be proud to call a friend and an ally because of its contribution to the universal striving towards liberty, human rights, prosperity and peace among the people.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spectators watching Nelson Mandela's motorcade yesterday as it moved along Pennsylvania Avenue from Capitol Hill. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); RELIGION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (93%); 



692 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Approves Heart Drug Made by Soviets

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration has approved a drug developed in the Soviet Union to treat potentially fatal irregular heart rhythms, and experts said today that the medicine was likely to become a primary treatment for the condition because of its low rate of adverse effects.
The Du Pont Company of Wilmington, Del., which will market the drug worldwide under the name Ethmozine, said the medicine was the first licensed to an American company by the Soviets. The drug, discovered in 1964 and widely used in the Soviet Union, was approved by the F.D.A. last week but the announcement was withheld until today, said Kurt Landgraf, a Du Pont pharmaceutical official.
 
Worldwide Sales Planned
Du Pont said that Ethmozine should be available for wide use in September and that the company would market the drug throughout the world except in the Soviet Union and countries that are its economic partners. The drug, which Du Pont said is expensive to make, should cost patients $2 to $4 daily, a price similar to other drugs in its class. 
Under the licensing agreement, the Soviet Government is to receive a 4 percent royalty on worldwide sales revenue, Mr. Landgraf said.
Heart specialists said the drug, which is used to treat ventricular arrhythmia, a condition that can lead to a heart attack, appears to have far fewer adverse side effects than similar drugs, which are widely used but are not well tolerated by patients.
The heart drug, also known by its generic name moricizine, remains the centerpiece of a major Government study of treating arrhythmia that was disrupted last year when scientists found that two other medicines in the test increased fatalities by two to three times among participants.
Use of the two drugs, Tambocor and Enkaid, was suspended for mild or moderate heart rhythm irregularities. The study, the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial, has continued using only moricizine.
Dr. Craig Pratt of the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, an expert on the drug, said there were eight other anti-arrhythmia drugs in the same class as moricizine, but all were reported to have more common adverse side effects. With the new drug, about 7 percent of the patients have stopped using it because of dizziness, stomach upset or other problems. But with the other drugs, he said, discontinuation rates vary from 30 percent to 50 percent because of a variety of adverse reactions, including severe diarrhea and nausea. About 10 million Americans suffer from various kinds of ventricular arrhythmias, experts said, and the condition leads to 300,000 fatal heart attacks annually. People who survive a heart attack are at increased risk of suffering a subsequent attack if they have irregular heart rhythms. These are the higher-risk patients who are the subject of the Government study, which is expected to continue until 1994.
 
Erratic Signals Suppressed
The cause of arrhythmia is largely unknown, experts said, but scientists believe medicine that controls the condition suppresses the erratic signals that initiate beats and slows the electrical conduction in heart tissue.
Dr. Joel Morganroth of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, who is involved in the Federal study, told a news briefing that if medication failed to control severe arrhythmia, doctors tried to control the heartbeats by implanting small electical devices that shock the heart back into a normal beat pattern, a procedure that can cost up to $50,000.
''Medication is always preferable, and the drugs we have are all effective in certain groups of patients'' Dr. Morganroth said. But the other drugs in moricizine's class can also increase the risk of death by starting wild irregular heart beats or congestive heart failure over time by weakening the heart muscle, he said.
''Ethmozine is uncommon in not causing worse heart function, a possibility with the other drugs,'' Dr. Morganroth added. ''Its long-term safety looks good.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO; FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: HEART; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ETHMOZINE (DRUG) CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); APPROVALS (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ADVERSE DRUG EVENT REPORTING (89%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (89%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E JOEL MORGANROTH (74%); KURT LANDGRAF (59%); 



693 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Antitrusts Break for Insurers Helps Consumers;
Industry Is Sound

 BODY:
To the Editor:
There is no comparison between the savings and loan industry disaster and a modest increase in the number of insolvencies in the insurance industry (''Insurer Insolvencies: Next Mega-Crisis?'' by Melvin L. Schweitzer, Op-Ed, June 8). This kind of worrisome talk causes unnecessary concern to the policyholders of insurance companies.
Granted, one could find similarities among individual insolvencies of savings and loans and of insurers: mismanagement, underreserving and competitive pressures. But it is ludicrous to parallel the two industries. 
Mr. Schweitzer acknowledges there have been only 150 insurer insolvencies since 1970, a rate dwarfed by failures in savings and loans and indeed in commercial banking. In 1989 alone, 328 savings and loans were taken over by the Government.
The cost of insolvencies to the insurance industry in the 1980's is estimated at $7 billion. Compare that with the $500 billion cost to taxpayers Mr. Schweitzer says is needed to bail out the savings and loans. In effect, they have created a separate national debt.
The insurance industry, despite the pressures on it, is fundamentally sound. The crucial indicator is the extremely strong overall capital position of the industry. For example, the frequently cited premium-to-surplus ratio now stands at 1.6 to 1, well below the generally accepted regulatory standard of 3 to 1.
And the industry's assets are secure. Property-casualty companies have less than 1 percent of their assets in junk bonds and life companies less than 5 percent.
Mr. Schweitzer's views, however, reinforce a point the insurance business has been making for years: This industry faces the political manipulation of its prices in direct contradiction to the laws of economics that say rates must be adequate to pay costs. Laws such as California's Proposition 103, which cut prices without cutting costs, only worsen the situation. And part of the insurance industry's financial condition is not of its own making. The system is threatened by a litigation morass, with more than 50 cents on the dollar in litigation expenditures going to lawyers, rather than claimants.
The insurance industry supports strong regulation: a system that maintains solvency and sees that unethical operators - and there are some of those in every business - are removed.
 
SEAN MOONEY
Senior Vice President and Economist
Insurance Information Institute
 New York, June 8, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; INSURANCE INSURANCE (97%); SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); LITIGATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (52%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: MOONEY, SEAN MELVIN L SCHWEITZER (92%); 



694 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Military Machine

BYLINE: By Dov S. Zakheim; Dov S. Zakheim is chief executive officer of SPC International, a high-technology consulting firm.

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.

 BODY:
The flap over the illegal transfer of ''Star Wars''-related software to four Japanese companies, all of them tied into the Japanese aerospace sector, underscores the growing pressures on the longstanding U.S.-Japanese security relationship.
For 45 years, Washington has been happy to underwrite the primary defense needs of both countries while Tokyo has gone about its business of becoming an economic giant. But now, with the U.S. struggling with budget deficits and Japan burgeoning with trade surpluses, this arrangement is crumbling.
Unless the U.S. confirms in the strongest terms its commitment to maintaining a military presence in Asia, Japan - and its rapidly expanding military-industrial complex -will fill the power vacuum. 
After years of prodding by the U.S., the logic of Japanese military economics has become inexorable: the 1990-'91 Japanese military budget, already the sixth largest in the world, is slated to increase by 6.1 per cent, the highest rate in five years. This expansion in military spending is breeding an industrial appetite for the high-tech that fuels research, development and especially sales.
The four Japanese companies have stated that they had no intention of using the software for military purposes, and deny any complicity in obtaining the software illegally.
The first contention is beside the point. The software can indeed be used for military research, and it would be foolhardy for the purchasers - which include Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan's largest military contractor, and Ishikawa-Harima, a missile manufacturer - to own such a valuable resource and not exploit it. Certainly, such behavior would be out of character for efficiency-conscious Japanese corporations.
The Japanese denial of complicity is perfectly valid on its face. Nevertheless, as anyone who has sought to export high-tech products can attest, potential recipients (other than rogue governments) will rarely commit funds until an export license has been obtained. In their eagerness to acquire the software in question, four highly sophisticated companies appear to have jettisoned the caution for which Japanese firms are noted.
What does all this mean for the U.S.-Japan relationship? In one respect, it is more grist for the Japan-bashers' mill. Those who seek to restrict Japanese imports, or to ''punish'' Japan for trade violations, will see in this case another Toshiba affair, in which U.S. technology-transfer rules were cynically violated.
But the Star Wars software incident more closely resembles the arrangements for technology-sharing in the U.S.-Japan joint venture to build the FSX fighter plane. As such, it goes to the heart of the security relationship, which needs to be disentangled from the trade issue.
Diminishing budget resources, and the collapse of the Soviet empire, are calling into question the permanence of the U.S. military presence in East Asia. At the same time, the allure of the international arms market, growing Japanese political and diplomatic assertiveness and the continuing Japanese military buildup are creating a momentum for military expansion that Japanese industry has no desire to resist. Ultimately, it may sweep up the Government as well.
No one, least of all the vast majority of Japanese citizens, shows any enthusiasm for a revival of even a shadow of the militarism of the 1930's. Moreover, Japan has taken a more skeptical view of perestroika than any major Western powers. It continues to seek American support for its security.
Nevertheless, only Japan is in a position to fill any power vacuum that a drawdown of U.S. and Soviet forces might create. Japanese industry can therefore be viewed as responding to current military economic realities and anticipating political realities. In these circumstances, a punitive approach to Japan's military industry will be doomed to failure.
The U.S. must signal its resolve to maintain its military role in East Asia and in the defense of Japan. It must resist applying the lessons of European arms reductions to a region where alliance structures and local rivalries are radically different.
At the same time, Washington must facilitate cooperation, rather than brutal competition, between Japan's emerging military-industrial powerhouse and our shrinking military-industrial base. Moreover, given the intimate ties between the Japanese Government and its industrial giants, Washington could look to Tokyo for still greater scrutiny of commercial technology transactions.
Only in this way can both governments expect to curb the natural impulse of Japan's expanding military-oriented businesses and industries to overlook long-term national security consequences in favor of short-term economic and technology gains.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); 7011 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (54%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (54%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (58%); MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (67%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); 

PERSON: ZAKHEIM, DOV S



695 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Talks Taxes And Anxiety

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
At train stations, barber shops, pizza parlors and on street corners, wherever New Jerseyans gather, the talk has turned to taxes, and the largest tax increase in the state's history.
For some, the $2.8 billion in higher taxes passed last week by the Legislature - and the new Governor who proposed them - represent the return of an ever-hungry and avaricious government after the hiatus of the 1980's.
To others, the new sales and income taxes, as well as a host of new policies by Gov. Jim Florio, represent an unfortunate but necessary new direction for the state. At a time of regionwide fiscal problems, those taxpayers say they are willing to accept higher taxes, if leaders can convince them that they will ultimately receive something worthwhile in return.
Perhaps the anxious tone of the electorate, reflected in dozens of random interviews this week, was best expressed by Lea Forst of Scotch Plains, who waited at the Westfield train station Monday afternoon for her husband's commuter train to arrive from Manhattan. 
 
'Emotionally, I am Resentful'
''I realize that government has problems,'' said Ms. Forst, a Republican who voted for Mr. Florio last year. ''Intellectually, I realize that the state needs more money. But emotionally, I am resentful. Why do I have to subsidize the whole system when I can't afford it?''
Interviews in more than a dozen towns and cities around the state found that many people were confused by Mr. Florio's complex agenda and clearly understood only that taxes were going up. In addition, most expressed anxiety about living in a state where a combination of property taxes, insurance costs and a weak economy will make it harder for average people to pay all their bills.
Many were still trying to discern in all this whether Mr. Florio was an enemy or a friend. Perhaps most of all, people were confused by the flood of numbers out of Trenton, and by unclear explanations of how much they eventually will have to pay.
''Everybody's complaining because all the taxes are going up,'' said Russ Gibson, a barber at the Tip Top Barber Shop in the Borough of Freehold. ''It's disgusting, it's disgraceful; it really is.'' He said he did not understand Mr. Florio's reasoning, adding, ''Everybody's hurting.''
Another barber, Norm Kramer, said he believed the new taxes on cigarettes, which will raise the cost of a pack by nearly a quarter, would spur a new and unneeded black market in bootleg cigarettes.
''Businesses in New York now will think twice about coming to New Jersey,'' Mr. Kramer added.
But Brian Mallon, a young man waiting for one of the chairs to open up, suddenly grew tired of the attacks on Mr. Florio.
''He was left a big dump,'' Mr. Mallon interupted. ''There is only so much he can cut, so he's got to raise taxes. Kean left a big mess.'' But if the Governor could gather some solace from Mr. Mallon's support, it might be dashed by a talk with Steven Cohen, the proprietor of Jilly's Deli on West Main Street, a short distance away. Mr. Cohen was vexed at Mr. Florio's explanation for the tax increases, and said he felt a foreboding, as a New Yorker who fled to New Jersey 23 years ago, ''when taxes were one-third of what I pay now.''
 
Test Case for New Taxes
''I don't think the Governor has come clean on what he's trying to do,'' Mr. Cohen added. ''Between paying more and having more taken away, the Governor is creating an incentive for people to move, and that's a shame because this is clean state, a beautiful state.''
Last week, the Democrat-controlled Legislature in Trenton turned the state into something of a test case for how an electorate, which supported the anti-tax campaigns of Ronald Reagan in the 1980's, will respond to new taxes.
The Legislature passed a series of bills that will raise the income tax next Jan. 1 for more affluent New Jerseyans, raise the sales tax next week to 7 percent from 6 percent and extend the sales tax to a number of new items. Mr. Florio's program will also pump more than a billion dollars into the public schools of 360 poor and middle-income districts and remove state aid over several years to 220 of the most affluent.
Mr. Florio has said the voters of New Jersey will eventually accept the higher sales tax to make up for budget difficulties that he says were left him by his predecessor, the Republican governor, Thomas H. Kean.
 
Waiting for Public's Reaction
The Democratic Governor, who took office in January, has also wagered that he will win the support of voters of the lower and middle classes. Some of the money from the $1.2 billion in new income tax revenue is intended for property tax rebates for homeowers and renters with taxable income of less than $100,000.
Republicans have attacked the Florio program as a return of high-tax liberalism of the 1960's, which they say will destroy the pro-business environment created by Mr. Kean and chase businesses and jobs from the state.
Both Democrats and Republicans in Trenton are waiting to see just how the public reacts to all this: whether they understand what Mr. Florio has done, and whether they will rebel against more taxes or embrace what they see as strong leadership.
''A lot of new Jerseyans are upset that Florio is going to raise taxes,'' said Jacqueline C. Ramdial, a 26-year-old home health aide who lives and works in Newark. ''It didn't make me happy either but I saw the reason for doing it.''
 
Rage in Ridgewood
Standing outside Newark City Hall at lunchtime, Ms. Ramdial said she understood that Mr. Florio's plan was intended to bring aid to the Newark schools, which she said were very bad and in need of help. ''I think it's time the system was changed,'' she said. ''Some middle-class New Jerseyans see it as a threat to their lifestyle but I don't think he's doing it to leave out anybody.''
''In order to make society work as a whole, you need everybody.''
But in one of the wealthiest suburbs of Northern New Jersey, Ridgewood, in Bergen County, people along the main thoroughfare, Ridgewood Avenue, described themselves as enraged. Under the Florio plan the state aid to Ridgewood schools would drop to $5.5 million from $8.3 million between the summer of 1992 and 1996.
''I can't believe this is happening in New Jersey, particularly after Governor Kean did so much for education,'' said Anita Kusy, a Ridgewood resident, who has a daughter entering kindergarten. ''Governor Florio wants to give everyone equal opportunity, but everybody has individual differences. You just can't say equality is going to make everybody the same.''
''All you're doing is lowering the level of education to mediocrity,'' she said.
Her husband, Richard Kusy, meanwhile, said that the new taxes might spur an exodus of New Jersey residents.
''You start to consider, 'Why New Jersey?' '' Mr. Kusy said. ''You start thinking about other states - Connecticut, Pennsylvania. Houses are cheaper there, taxes are cheaper and you're getting more for your money. Here, you'll get taxed to death.'' Katherine Bolender, a 22-year-old recent college graduate working behind the counter of the Alchemist and Barrister croissant shop in Princeton, said she very well might leave the state where she grew up.
''Its ridiculous for me to pay 20 percent of what I make in taxes when the government isn't willing to make cutbacks,'' Ms. Bolender said. ''I have no problem with a tax increase if the government can explain where it is going and why it is necessary.''
Hasbrouck Heights is a conservative town where most residents regard themselves as middle-class New Jerseyans, whose famililes have worked hard and never been flush with cash. James V. Longo Jr., owner of Lovey's Pizzeria on the Boulevard, had both praise and criticism for Governor Florio. The Governor's decision to raise taxes was understandable, Mr. Longo said, to fix budget problems left him by Mr. Kean.
''I don't see any other way to bail ourselves out,'' Mr. Longo said from behind the counter as he prepared pizza for the evening rush. ''I don't see anybody else coming in with contributions. Do you?''
But Mr. Longo, who owns the two-story building that houses his pizzeria and lives in a single-famliy home in Saddle Brook, said he could not accept raising taxes on the middle classes to pay for poor urban schools. And although Mr. Florio argues that his plan aids many middle-class communities, Mr. Longo is unconvinced.
''He's trying to send all the money to the poor areas,'' Mr. Longo said. ''Half of the folks there are not interested in going to school anyway.''
Nearby in the same Bergen County town, Leonard J. Wisse, a self-employed advertising and public relations specialist, said that he understood enough of the Florio plan last week to go out and buy a new Buick before the sales tax went into effect. He said he saved about $300.
''The world has been good to me,'' Mr. Wisse said. ''I don't mind paying taxes. But I want to see it spent wisely.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: James V. Longo Jr.: Hasbrouck Heights - ''I don't see any other way to bail ourselves out. I don't see anybody else coming in with contributions.'' (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times); Lea Forst: Scotch Plains - ''Intellectually, I realize that the state needs more money. But emotionally, I am resentful. Why do I have to subsidize the whole system when I can't afford it?'' (William E. Sauro/The New York Times); Jacqueline C. Ramdial: Newark - ''A lot of New Jerseyans are upset that Florio is going to raise taxes. It didn't make me happy either but I saw the reason for doing it.'' (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) (pg. B1); ''Everybody's complaining because all the taxes are going up,'' said Russ Gibson, a barber at the Tip Top Barber Shop in Freehold, N.J. ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); BARBER SHOPS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TRAINS (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HISTORY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (63%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) JIM FLORIO (92%); BRIAN MALLON (56%); 



696 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Marcos Was Not a Thief, Defense Says in Summation

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

 BODY:
Imelda Marcos ''has committed no crime except the crime of loving a man for 35 years, of raising his children, of being his First Lady, of being his ardent supporter, of taking his lavish gifts,'' Mrs. Marcos's lawyer told the jury in his closing statement at her racketeering trial yesterday.
In a riveting closing argument, Mrs. Marcos's chief lawyer, Gerry Spence, portrayed his client as he always has -as a wife who was unfamiliar with her husband's dealings and who, while a big spender, was not a thief.
''She's a world-class shopper,'' Mr. Spence said. ''But she's a world-class decent human being.'' 
Mr. Spence spoke for more than four hours at the United States Court House on Foley Square, striking at the testimony of 95 Government witnesses and the implications of thousands of documents. Mrs. Marcos, the widow of Ferdinand Marcos, the late President of the Philippines, is charged with stealing more than $200 million from her homeland and then secretly buying artwork, jewelry and four buildings in Manhattan.
 
Seemed More Focused
The defense team had not called any witnesses, and this was the chance for Mr. Spence - a Wyoming lawyer who has a reputation as a shrewd master at swaying juries, but who has clashed with the judge during his first New York trial - to return to center stage.
Yesterday, pacing and using water pitchers and his cowboy hat as props, he seemed more focused than he has during the trial. He turned the pages of a book filled with the Government's evidence and addressed them one by one.
Mr. Spence portrayed all of the building purchases in Manhattan as three-way investments by Mr. Marcos, the Philippine Government and Benedicto and Gliceria Tantoco, department store owners who were friends of the Marcoses.
Citing testimony from Rolando Gapud, a former financial adviser to Mr. Marcos, Mr. Spence said that Mrs. Marcos had not been told anything about ''commissions'' that the President had received on Government contracts, and that he had specifically instructed his staff not to inform her.
 
'A Good Investment'
The money was sent into foreign accounts, Mr. Spence said, as protection against declining economic conditions in the Philippines at the time. The buildings, he said, were bought as ''a good investment against inflation.
''This doesn't sound like Mrs. Marcos's operation,'' Mr. Spence said. ''It sounds like the official operation of a Government.''
''One document out of 300,000 has her signature after the date of the alleged wrongdoing, and that is $700,000 from a Swiss account to pay for her jewels,'' he said. Mrs. Marcos's signature, Mr. Spence said, appeared on only one of the documents dated after 1972, when the prosecution says the crimes began.
Mr. Spence ridiculed prosecutors for basing their case on the words they so often repeated in their summation: ''''Of course she knew.''
''It's a hole so big you could drive a truck through it,'' he said.
Mr. Marcos was ousted from power by Corazon Aquino, and Mr. Spence argued that the case had a political foundation.
''Mrs. Aquino used this trial for political leverage - no prosecution, no bases,'' he said, referring to American military bases in the Philippines.
Today the lawyer for Mrs. Marcos's co-defendant, Adnan Khashoggi, will deliver his summation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imelda Marcos arriving at court yesterday with her lawyer, Gerry Spence, right, who portrayed her in his closing argument as a wife unfamiliar with her husband's dealings and a big spender but not a thief. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES

SUBJECT: RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; TRIALS LAWYERS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); RETAILERS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); 

PERSON: WOLFF, CRAIG; SPENCE, GERRY IMELDA ROMUALDEZ MARCOS (94%); FERDINAND EDRALIN MARCOS (74%); 



697 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Minorities Lead in Work Force but Lag in Pay

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
Blacks and members of other minorities now account for more than half of New York City's resident labor force, but they continue to lag behind whites in higher paying jobs, a Labor Department report released yesterday showed.
Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, said at a briefing that the new status of minorities underscored the importance the groups would play in determining the health of the city's economy in the 1990's.
He said the number of minority-group members in the labor force -defined as those who have a job or are looking for one - rose by 400,000 in the 1980's, while the number of whites in the labor force declined by 100,000. 
The net gain of 300,000 brought the city's resident labor force to 3.36 million, with 1.69 million of them from minorities, including blacks, Hispanic groups, Asians, American Indians and others not classified as white.
 
Major Share in Growth
In part because of higher birth rates and immigration, Mr. Ehrenhalt said, minorities are likely to comprise an ''overwhelming'' share of the growth in the city's resident labor force in the 1990's. Assuring that workers will have sufficient skills for the increasingly demanding jobs that the local economy is generating will be critical as the city copes with what many expect will be a labor shortage.
Yesterday's report indicated that the recent economic experience of minorities in the city had been mixed.
In 1989, 24 percent of black workers had managerial, professional or technical jobs, up from 19 percent in 1983 and significantly above the national average for blacks in 1989, also 19 percent. But the level was still substantially below the 36 percent of whites employed in those higher-paying jobs.
Although information on Hispanic workers is limited, only 15 percent are employed in managerial positions while 23 percent are dependent on manufacturing, a rapidly shrinking part of the city economy.
Employment of minorities in the city rose by more than 200,000 since 1980, to about 1 million, but they have twice the unemployment rate of whites, 9.6 percent as against 4.1 percent.
 
Occupational Disparities
''The occupational disparities continue to be major,'' Mr. Ehrenhalt said. ''The direction of the city economy and the occupational profile of the rapidly growing minority work force are substantially out of alignment.''
The report focused on the city's resident labor force, which does not include commuters, most of whom are white. Still, Mr. Ehrenhalt said the majority status of minorities in the labor force ''should be sending some signals'' about problems the groups face, including an educational system with a high dropout rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (67%); IMMIGRATION (52%); 

PERSON: EHRENHALT, SAMUEL M (COMR); LEVINE, RICHARD SAMUEL M EHRENHALT (91%); 



698 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Movement on the Budget But a Big Gulf to Cross

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
President Bush's statement today backing away from his ''no new taxes'' pledge may have been the political icebreaker needed to get the budget talks with Congress moving.
But it still left a wide gulf between the President and Congressional Democrats over which taxes to raise, which programs to cut, how big the military budget should be and how to change the budget law.
''The toughest questions are still ahead of them, no doubt about it,'' said Stanley E. Collender, a Government budget specialist at Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm.
Both sides agree that the deficit in the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, will be about $160 billion, not counting Government spending for the savings and loan bailout. They also agree that the deficit figure should be reduced by $50 billion to $60 billion next year and by $400 billion to $600 billion cumulatively over the next five years. 
 
Budget Strategies
The Democrats want about a third of the deficit reduction to come from tax increases, a third from military spending and a third from domestic programs. The White House and Republican lawmakers would like somewhat more to come from domestic programs and somewhat less from taxes and the military. But the fundamental issue involves the specific components, not the proportions.
These individual elements, whether they involve taxes or spending, are so unpopular politically that they could not be enacted on their own. But a package might be palatable. ''The general principle has always applied that nothing is agreed to until all elements have been agreed to,'' the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, said today.
The most difficult question, of course, is taxes. Mr. Bush and most Republican lawmakers want to cut the tax rate on capital gains, which under current law are treated like ordinary income, and that is what the President meant in his statement today when he said a budget agreement should include ''growth incentives.''
Everyone agrees that a capital gains tax cut would raise several billion dollars next year as investors sold stocks and bonds to take advantage of the new rate.
 
Disagreement Over Tax Cut
Republicans say it would continue to raise money forever. Democrats maintain that after the initial spurt, it would cost billions a year in lost revenue. Moreover, the Democrats say the benefits from such a tax change would go almost entirely to the rich.
The Democrats might be willing to accept a capital gains tax cut if the President agreed to raise the income tax rate paid by the wealthiest Americans to at least 33 percent from 28 percent. But Mr. Bush can be expected to oppose vigorously any change in income tax rates, at least at the outset of the tax negotiations.
Beyond the income and capital gains taxes, the negotiators could probably raise about $10 billion a year, without causing much political strain, from increased taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. Higher taxes on gasoline and imported oil would be somewhat more difficult politically but are perhaps possible. Steep new taxes in this area could raise as much as $20 billion to $30 billion a year.
Finding $20 billion or so to cut in spending for domestic programs might be as difficult as agreeing on which taxes to raise. Democrats and Republicans agree that the cuts will have to come in automatic benefit programs, the rapidly growing sector of the budget in which meeting eligibility requirements automatically entitles a person to Government benefits.
 
Taxing Some Benefits
The biggest entitlement program is Social Security. No one expects retirement benefits to be reduced, but the negotiators might agree to subject a larger part of Social Security benefits to income taxes.
Some economists have suggested a one-year freeze in cost-of-living increases in Social Security payments and in adjustment of income-tax brackets for inflation. That would raise a large amount of money but is probably not practical politically.
Other ways of cutting spending for entitlement programs would be to reduce Medicare payments to doctors and hospitals, lower crop-support payments to farmers and reduce benefits to retired Federal workers.
In military spending, Mr. Bush and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney have so far agreed to cuts of about $3 billion below the spending that would be needed next year to keep pace with inflation. Congress is talking about $12 billion to $15 billion.
 
Hints at Compromise
Many Republicans believe that the President has been too timid about cuts at the Pentagon and that he will surely have to raise his offer. But Democrats may accept somewhat smaller military cuts next year if much larger ones are promised for subsequent years.
Whatever else they agree to, the negotiators will have to rewrite the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law. That law requires a deficit in the next fiscal year not exceeding $64 billion and across-the-board spending reductions in most programs if the official Government projection does not meet that target.
Failure by the President and Congress to agree to any deficit reduction at all, leaving the deficit figure about $100 billion above the target, would mean automatic cuts of 25 percent in military outlays and 37 percent in all domestic programs except Social Security and grants to the poor.
That would be politically and economically unacceptable. ''What would you do,'' asked Robert D. Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, ''with the Federal prison system, the border patrol, vital safety programs, food inspection, air traffic control, customs agents at Kennedy Airport?''
Even if the negotiators find a way to reduce the deficit by $50 billion to $60 billion, the amount they and most economists agree can be cut without seriously damaging the economy, they will still miss the target by $40 billion or so.
Furthermore, the Gramm-Rudman law will have to be raised to accommodate spending for the savings and loan bailout, which will amount to about $75 billion next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PRICE WATERHOUSE CSG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); BONDS (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (61%); SAVINGS & LOANS (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



699 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Matching Those Who Need Guidance With Those Who Have Been There

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
For at least part of a day, Tacuma Russell will escape the somber shambles of his struggling neighborhood in the Roxbury section of Boston. Today, to celebrate the boy's 14th birthday, a Boston University sophomore will drive him two hours along Interstate 90 to an amusement park, where the two plan to enjoy roller coaster rides and blue clouds of cotton candy.
The college student, James Spearman Stewart, is not related to Tacuma. Through a joint program of the Boston public school system and his university, for which Mr. Stewart volunteered, he was assigned to be Tacuma's mentor.
For the last nine months, Mr. Stewart has been involved with the boy, in hopes of improving life for Tacuma, whose mother was 16 when he was born. ''We all have doubts about where we want to go and how we're going to get there,'' said Mr. Stewart. 
The 1980's saw an enormous surge in the number of programs similar to the one that regularly brings Mr. Stewart and Tacuma together. In recent years, the idea of directly contributing to a youngster's chances of success has found great appeal among educators, business leaders and others who are increasingly frustrated with bureaucracies that appear too sluggish to offer much help.
Across the United States, mentor programs aim to match adults with young people who may need help in school, in making career decisions, or just in coping with the complexities of life in the late 20th century. There are mentors who are corporate executives, college students, journalists, retired nuns and electrical workers. Some programs link mentors to young people who are in trouble with the juvenile justice system; others match adults with college students. There are even mentors for mentors. ''They are springing up every day, popping up like daisies in the meadow,'' Michael A. Bailin, president of Public/Private Ventures, a youth advocate group, said of the crop of new programs. ''Much of this is out of desperation. People are looking for something that makes sense.''
Lisa Nehus, a project coordinator for the National Media Outreach Center in Pittsburgh, has been trying for the last five months to establish a national network of mentor programs.
''There is really no way of knowing how many programs there are out there,'' she said, estimating there are ''thousand and thousands.'' So far, Ms. Nehus said, she has 126 mentor program contacts and expects nearly 500 more by the end of next year.
Shayne Schneider, founder and president of Mentors Inc., a private, nonprofit group in Washington, D.C., said if the last decade's growth of mentor programs was charted, it would appear as a sweeping upward curve.
''There were twice as many programs last year and twice as many programs the year before and the year before,'' she said. ''It's been a phenomenon mostly of the late 80's.'' 'Point of Light' In Eyes of Backers With roots firmly planted in volunteerism, mentor programs appear to have ascended to President Bush's ''thousand points of light,'' their supporters say. Carol Farroe, a youth coordinator for Mentors Inc., proudly points out that Barbara Bush was chairperson for her group's first graduation banquet last month.
Only in their broadest outlines do these new mentor programs resemble their 85-year-old ancestor, Big Brothers/Big Sisters of America, many experts agree. Mentor programs, particularly those spawned on college campuses and corporate offices, concentrate less on creating surrogate relatives and more on offering friendly and trusted advisers.
Many programs are designed to help poor black and Hispanic students, educators and social scientists say, primarily because minority youths generally face greater risk of being locked out of opportunities. A number of mentor programs are being used to help attract black and Hispanic students to college and then help them once they enter.
Program organizers, however, are quick to add that much of America's youth, regardless of color, could benefit from mentoring in an era of mounting numbers of single-parent households and latch-key children and schools overburdened with crime, violence and drugs.
''This is not rocket science that we are talking about here,'' said Brooke Beaird, director of Campus Partners in Learning, a mentor program operating at 14 colleges across the country. ''Kids need warm, adult relationships to give them a lift. It is not very complex.'' Pitfalls in Matching Generosity and Need But within what some supporters call ''the mentoring movement,'' there is considerable disagreement about precisely what should constitute a mentor relationship and whether such relationships can be fostered on a mass scale. Some critics have likened the difficulty of successfully pairing mentors with young people, usually of vastly different backgrounds, to blind dating.
In some cases, administrators of mentor programs believe, mentor and youngster should be of the same race or ethnic group.
At the University of Washington, for instance, officials say they have had great success with matching university graduates who are American Indian with freshmen who are Indian.
''It's one of the first things we do unless the student says no,'' said Bill Baker, the university's vice president of minority affairs. ''Through that same experience, they know about the problems of homesickness.''
Others, such as Jerome Grossman, chairman of the advisory committee for the country's largest mentor group, the 10,000-member Career Beginnings Program, said there is no evidence that the race of a mentor makes any difference.
''It has much more to do with a mentor's sense of being outgoing, his sense of patience,'' said Dr. Grossman, chief of the New England Medical Center in Boston. Counting the Ways They Have Benefited The Commonwealth Fund, a national philanthropy based in New York that operates Career Beginnings in 16 cities around the country, recently commissioned a Louis Harris study of program participants.
In a sample of 400 teen-agers across the country, the study found that 57 percent of them said their mentors helped them get along better with teachers; 59 percent said their grades improved, and 53 percent said their mentors helped them resist illegal drugs.
Public/Private Ventures, a Philadelphia-based nonprofit group that conducts and researches programs for youths with disadvantages, is beginning a more extensive $4 million study of mentoring programs this summer. Its officials said it will be the first comprehensive examination of how effective mentoring is when used on a large scale.
''It's important to understand what these programs are doing and how they're doing it,'' said the group's president, Mr. Bailin. ''We want to prevent what might be a good thing from becoming a vanishing fad, or being misused.''
Among the questions the study will try to answer, he said, are whether mentoring makes a genuine difference in improving young people's lives or ability to achieve; whether it can be duplicated by large institutions such as welfare and juvenile-justice agencies, and whether there are enough adults willing to participate.
For years, relationships based on nurturing, between teachers and students, supervisors and their charges - between those who know and those who do not - have occurred naturally, without outside intervention. The attempt to create such relationships, experts and mentors say, is at the center of the new popularity of mentor programs.
Philip M. Butterfield, a 49-year-old vice president at Citibank, said he volunteered for the company's mentor program because he believed it was ''by far the best opportunity to make a change in someone's life.''
''I enjoy this so much,'' he said in an interview from his midtown Manhattan office. ''It's really a painless way to give back.''
In 1982, Citicorp created its Fellows Program, offering students an annual $3,200 college scholarship and a Citicorp executive to serve as the student's mentor.
The students are selected from member schools of the United Negro College Fund, and they are teamed with their mentors for the four years they are undergraduate students. Connecticut Banker Guides a Freshman Jeffrey Parker was a freshman engineering major at Morehouse University in Atlanta when he began meeting with Mr. Butterfield. The following fall, after campus visits, long talks and stays with Mr. Butterfield and his family in suburban Connecticut, Mr. Parker changed his major to business. Now he dreams of pursuing a law degee upon graduation.
''He's an unlimited knowledge base,'' Mr. Parker said of his mentor. ''What I want to know, he knows. What I want to see, he's seen. What I want to do, he's done.''
Mr. Parker, 21 years old, comes from a black middle-class family. His father is a civil engineer for the Air Force. For the last two summers, Mr. Butterfield has been able to get Jeffrey a summer job at the bank.
''It's been a great experience,'' Mr. Parker said. ''My father is really happy. I'm working, and that helps me to contribute to my undergraduate costs.''
In New York City, where the annual Hispanic high school dropout rate is 33 percent, a mentor program exclusively for Hispanic children who are doing poorly in school was started in March, under the auspices of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Office for Hispanic Affairs. The purpose of the program, which matches fifth- through seventh-graders with Hispanic mentors employed at Nynex Corporation, is to persuade the children to stay in school.
The program is part of the New York State Mentoring Committee, which was founded by the state's First Lady, Matilda Raffa Cuomo, who is also the group's chairwoman. Great Expectations, Or Realistic Ones? Marc Freedman, a senior associate for Public/Private Ventures, has received a $90,000 grant from the Ford Foundation to write a book about mentoring. After recently completing his research, he is concerned that the concept, while good, is perhaps being oversold. As a consequence, he said, he is afraid it ''will be rejected because it does live up to these unrealistic expectations.''
Speaking recently at the National Mentoring Conference in Washington, Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole said mentoring can ''keep kids in school, turn young lives around, impact on the social problems of our time, improve the quality of our work force, and insure America's continued economic competitiveness.''
Along the way, emotional, almost familial, ties sometimes develop between mentors and the people they try to help. And sometimes they don't.
Despite hours of school visits, shared study sessions, movies and hamburgers, some walls stand between James Stewart and Tacuma Russell. When Mr. Stewart hugs him goodbye, Tacuma refuses to hug him back.
''He's just not used to affection, and when you're not used to it it's hard to give it back,'' said Mr. Stewart, his voice betraying disappointment. ''I think that's especially true when it comes to men.
''He has a hard perception of black men due to his background,'' said Mr. Stewart who, like Tacuma, is black. Thinking of his own childhood, he said, ''I was very fortunate.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Across the country, mentor programs aim to match adults with young people who may need help in school or in making career decisions. Philip M. Butterfield, left, a vice president at Citibank in Manhattan, is participating in a Citicorp Fellows program, as a mentor to Jeffrey Parker, right, a student at Morehouse University in Atlanta. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MENTORS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOLUNTEERS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRENDS (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



700 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Donald Trump narrowly avoided missing a payment deadline that could have led to personal bankruptcy. But the hard-fought deal with bankers comes at a humbling cost: He has been forced to cede management control over his multibillion-dollar empire, at least temporarily, to the bankers who came to his rescue. [Page A1.] By maintaining ownership of his empire, Trump may have the seeds of a comeback. News Analysis. [D5.] 
 
Chrysler agreed to buy Dollar Rent A Car, one of the last large rental-car companies not already owned by an auto maker. [D1.]
 
As part of the proposed restructuring of RJR Nabisco, partners of Kohlberg, Kravis have renegotiated a $500 million bridge loan they made when their firm took RJR private in 1989. [D1.]
 
Continental Bank will reduce its staff by 900 and establish a $50 million reserve to cover the costs. [D1.]
 
Continental Cablevision said it had requested CBS network affiliation for its cable system in Concord, N.H. [D4.]
 
William Farley could lose control of West Point-Pepperell, the company said. [D5.]
 
President Bush sharply reduced the offshore acreage available to the oil and gas industry for at least the next decade. [A1.]
 
Agreement on a plan to cut Broadway ticket prices and production costs was reached by producers, theater owners and unions. [C13.]
 
Citibank plans to offer long-distance telephone service to its 14.5 million Visa cardholders through MCI Communications. [D4.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
President Bush said ''tax revenue increases'' would be required for an agreement with Congress on how to cut the budget deficit. The statement was greeted by Democrats and Republicans as a break with the ''read my lips'' campaign pledge. [A1.]
 
The Administration delayed action on a plan for protecting northern spotted owls and their forest homes. [A1.]
 
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
 
Bacteria are fighting the battle against hazardous wastes in soil and water, and there has been an explosion of research in recent years on a technique known as bioremediation. [D1.]
 
A gallium arsenide semiconductor that relies on light for its power supply has been designed by Varian Associates. [D7.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Saudi Arabia has offered its state bonds to foreign investors in a policy turnaround aimed at widening its secondary market. [D2.]
 
The European Community gave qualified endorsement to Helmut Kohl's appeal for billions in aid for the Soviet economy. [A1.]
 
MARKETS
 
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher and interest rates fell in nervous trading, as dealers juggled a promise from President Bush and the onset of a flood of new Treasury issues. [D1.]
 
Stocks rose early on Bush's comment on taxes, but fell back later, with the Dow losing 2.72, to 2,842.33. [D4.]
 
The dollar declined against all leading currencies after the markets became pessimistic about a budget accord. [D15.] Corn and soybean futures prices fell modestly. [D15.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Pressure for changes in Medicaid is expected to grow, as a result of a Supreme Court decision that hospitals and nursing homes can sue for ''adequate reimbursement.'' Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Carl H. Lindner is engaged in a delicate game with bondholders of the old Taft Broadcasting, which he took control of three years ago. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
 
Michael Keeshan says he is happy with some of the changes he has made at Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising in New York, after a year as president. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); VAR (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); KRAFT NABISCO (57%); VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); BONDS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (70%); BIOREMEDIATION (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); TICKET SALES (65%); CORN MARKETS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (62%); BACTERIA (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 



701 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler, in Shift, to Buy Dollar Car Rental

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 26

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation agreed today to buy Dollar Rent A Car Systems Inc., one of the last large rental-car companies not already owned by an auto maker.
The move represents an apparent reversal from an earlier decision by the nation's No. 3 auto maker to reduce sales to rental-car companies. Owning part or all of a rental company gives an auto maker a captive market for its vehicles.
Chrylser declined to say how much it would be paying for Dollar, the nation's fifth-largest car-rental agency. Chrysler also owns the Thrifty and Snappy rental-car systems, but neither has outlets on airport property, as Dollar does for most of its operations. 
Less than six months ago, Lee A. Iacocca, Chrysler's chairman, said the auto maker was bypassing opportunities to sell vehicles to rental-car fleets because the discounts expected by fleet operators cut too deeply into profit margins.
Moreover, the sales to the rental fleets have become so competitive that auto makers must agree to buy back the vehicles at a set price. Indeed, Chrysler said the recent steep drop in its share of the automotive market was partly because of its deliberate reduction of sales to fleets.
Referring to the sales of cars to rental fleets, Mr. Iacocca told the National Automobile Dealers Association Convention in February that there were ''too many buybacks, pouring too many low-mileage current model cars through the distribution system at prices that undercut new cars and destroy resale values.''
Explaining Mr. Iacocca's statement in light of the company's decision today to buy Dollar, a Chrysler spokesman said, ''Mr. Iacocca was addressing the situation at the time.''
The purchase of Dollar is expected to be completed by Aug. 15.
Aggressive sales of vehicles to rental-car fleets in the past few years have come about as a result of an overcapacity in United States and Canadian auto-making market. In addition, auto makers have been buying interests in rental-car companies to insure that they will have an outlet for their products.
The General Motors Corporation has minority interests in both Avis Inc. and National Car Rental System, the nation's second and third-largest car rental agencies. And the Ford Motor Company owns a minority interest in the Hertz Corporation and provides financing for the Budget Rent-A-Car and fourth-largest agencies in the country.
Chrysler and General Motors are the domestic auto makers with the biggest over-capacity problems, so they have the greatest need to sell to rental-car fleets as a means of widening their customer base.
 
'A Rock and a Hard Place'
''Chrysler's caught between a rock and a hard place,'' said Maryann Keller, an automotive analyst for Furman, Selz, Mager, Dietz & Birney. ''Either their profits are going to be hurt by the discounts, or their volume is going to be hurt because they can't sell enough cars.''
Some economists are concerned that the overcapacity in new cars and the discounts being granted to promote their sales have been driving down trade-in values on used cars, which ultimately will hurt new-car sales, Ms. Keller said.
Japanese auto makers, to some degree, have also become more interested in selling to fleets. Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America on Tuesday became the first importer to buy a rental fleet when it completed the acquisition of Value Rent-A-Car Inc. of Deerfield, Fla., a small operator.
Dollar has about 1,000 locations worldwide and a fleet of about 80,000 vehicles, 51,000 in the United States and Canada. About 95 percent of the locations are owned by franchisees, a spokeswoman said.
Chrysler's Thrifty fleet has about 750 outlets and 45,000 cars, serving airports from locations some distance from the terminal. Snappy has 250 locations and 20,000 cars and specializes in providing rental cars for people whose cars have been damaged or stolen, usually paid for by insurance companies.
Henry J. Caruso, who founded Dollar in 1966 in Los Angeles and is currently the company's president and owner, will continue to work for Dollar as a consultant, Chrysler said. Rental revenue for Dollar and its franchises in 1989 topped $600 million, the auto maker said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); HTZ (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (91%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (91%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (84%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (84%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); DOLLAR RENT A CAR SYSTEMS INC (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (81%); AVIS INC (63%); NATIONAL CAR RENTAL SYSTEM INC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOLLAR RENT A CAR SYSTEMS INC; CHRYSLER CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FLEET INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE FLEET INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P LEE A IACOCCA (67%); 



702 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Rally on Tax Vow

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher and interest rates fell in nervous trading yesterday, as dealers juggled a promise from President Bush and the onset of a flood of new Treasury issues.
The President's statement that ''tax revenue increases'' would have to be part of a budget compromise package sent bond prices up by a full point early in the session. Mr. Bush had previously indicated he would oppose new taxes, but his statement yesterday offered the possibility of relief for the nation's burdensome budget deficit.
Stock prices and the dollar also strengthened on the President's statement, but both markets later retreated as investors decided to wait for further action. The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 2.72 points, to 2,842.33, and the dollar ended the day down against most major currencies. [Pages D8 and D15.] In the credit markets, the positive long-term implications of the President's remarks were outweighed by the weight of the new supply of Government issues, and prices that had jumped slipped back somewhat. 
 
'Shorts' Pushed Out
Market participants bid on more than $11 billion worth of two-year notes yesterday, and will bid on an additional $8.25 billion of four-year notes today. According to traders, the President's comments made it very difficult for them to position themselves for those auctions.
''The President's remarks pushed all the shorts out of the market,'' one Government bond trader said.
On Monday, traders had set up ''short'' positions by agreeing to sell securities they did not own on the expectation that prices would fall further yesterday before the two-year note auction.
Had the strategy worked, the securities could have been bought back at lower prices. But Mr. Bush's remarks in the morning about possible tax increases, which are viewed as fundamentally positive for the bond market, caused prices to rise in the early afternoon sale.
''The fundamental picture is bullish, but right now we have a little problem finding buyers,'' another trader said. ''A lot of our traditional customers have cash and are positive on the market, but they don't want to screw up their books by taking on new positions at the end of the quarter.''
When buy orders from retail investors failed to materialize after Mr. Bush's comments, the problems of coping with the new supply of Treasury issues began to prey on dealers' minds, and prices receded from their highs.
Traders said the two-year note auction went fairly well even though the bulk of the issue was purchased by Wall Street firms. When the bulk of a debt sale remains in the hands of primary securities dealers, those firms are at risk because their objective is to resell the Treasury issues to the investing public.
 
Average Yield at 8.41%
At the auction, the new notes were sold at an average yield of 8.41 percent, down from an average yield of 8.52 percent at the last two-year note sale on May 23.
Demand from small investors was weak.
Non-competitive bids, a good indicator of demand from individual investors and small banks, amounted to just $1.5 billion for the $11.25 billion in securities that were sold.
Although dealers said they were wary of today's four-year note auction, late yesterday the securities were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.49 percent, down from 8.53 percent late Monday. In times of uncertain demand, yields on new securities tend to rise in advance of when they are auctioned.
Analysts said they were heartened by Mr. Bush's comments, especially by the fact that the President said he was willing to talk about curbing spending on politically sensitive entitlement programs in addition to looking at possible tax increases.
Entitlement programs pay benefits automatically. They include Medicare and Social Security, though Mr. Bush did not mention any specific programs yesterday.
''Bush's statement was very carefully crafted; he kept things deliberately vague,'' said Charles Lieberman, a managing director at the Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corporation. ''But mentioning the 'E' word is just as important as talking about taxes.''
Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at First Fidelity Bancorporation in Newark, said that ''in the past there have always been obstacles to meaningful negotiations on cutting the budget deficit. I see those logjams breaking up.''
Mr. Levy said that a $50 billion deficit-reduction package, in conjunction with a weak economic activity and continued moderation in inflation would push interest rates down significantly over the next 12 months.
''If a budget package of that sort passes, if the Fed remains moderately restrictive and the economy grows at around 1 percent, the overnight Federal funds rate will fall to 7 percent and bond yields will drop sharply, maybe down to as low as 7.25 percent,'' he said.
The Federal funds rate, the money market rate most closely controlled by the Federal Reserve Board, has traded in a very narrow band around 8.25 percent since mid-December.
 
Secondary Market Gains
Those sorts of hopes were reflected in the secondary market for Treasury securities yesterday.
Although prices retreated from their early morning highs, by late yesterday the 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 102 1/2, up 17/32, to yield 8.50 percent. Late Monday, the closely watched benchmark issue was offered at a price to yield 8.56 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 102 9/32 late yesterday, up one-quarter of a point, to yield 8.52 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 1/32, up 6/32, to yield 8.47 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were narrowly mixed.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.78 percent, up 2 basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bill rates rose by 3 basis points, to a late-offered rate of 7.68 percent. But one-year bill rates fell by 2 basis points, to a late-offered rate of 7.59 percent.
 
Other Offerings
Elsewhere, the BankAmerica Corporation priced a new $100 million issue of 10-year subordinated notes in the investment-grade corporate bond market.
The 9 3/4 percent notes, which mature July 1, 2000, were priced at $99.28 to yield 9.865 percent, 1.30 percentage points more than the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
Salomon Brothers acted as lead manager for the underwriting, which is rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and A- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, the Arizona Transportation Board priced a $175 million negotiated offering of Highway Revenue Bonds through a syndicate led by the First Boston Corporation. The issue consists of serial and term bonds.
Coupons on the serial bonds range from 6.25 percent on bonds maturing in 1994 to 7.00 percent on bonds that mature in 2003. Term bonds that mature in 2010 carry a 6 percent coupon and were priced to yield 7.10 percent.
The issue is rated Aa by Moody's. S.& P.is expected rate the issue AAA. Following are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year Treasury notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Average Price	99.937	Average Yield	8.41%	Low Price	99.991	High Yield	8.42%	High Price	99.919	Low Yield	8.38%	Accepted at low price	10%	Total applied for	$24,847,860	Accepted	$11,251,510	N.Y. applied for	$21,484,720	N.Y. accepted	$9,228,015	Noncompetitive	$1,494,000	Interest set at	8 1/2%	
 
The two-year notes mature June 30, 1992.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Treasury yield curve (Source: Technical Data); 2-year treasury Notes (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



703 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Broader Medicaid: Who Would Pay?

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
A RECENT Supreme Court decision is expected to add to growing pressure for changes in Medicaid. The Court ruled on June 14 that hospitals and nursing homes can file lawsuits to demand ''reasonable and adequate reimbursement'' for their services to Medicaid patients.
Medicaid, the Federal-state program for low-income people, is already straining budgets in most states, and the financially pressed programs have not kept pace with sharp increases in hospital and other medical costs.
Any increases in Medicaid spending would inevitably collide with Federal and state budget limitations, and the Bush Administration seems far from ready for such increases, at least this year. Indeed, in budget talks last week with Congressional leaders, Administration officials proposed $800 million in Medicaid cuts in 1991. Medicaid spends about $60 billion a year, of which about $26 billion comes from states and localities and $34 billion is Federal money. 
But a White House working group is looking hard at Medicaid as part of a review of the quality, accessibility and cost of the health-care system. President Bush announced the review in his State of the Union address in January.
''Everyone believes that we need to look at the design of Medicaid, who it covers and does not cover, and how it is paid for,'' said Constance J. Horner, the Under Secretary of Health and Human Services, who heads the group. ''Medicaid does not cover everyone who is poor.'' The group will make recommendations to the President's Domestic Policy Council at the end of the year.
Most experts say that expanding Medicaid would be the quickest way to assure medical care for many of the 35 million Americans who do not have health insurance. But before adding to the costs of such a big-ticket program, the President and Congress would obviously have to make important decisions about spending priorities and taxes.
Indeed, a recent study by the Urban Institute, a private research group in Washington, estimated that about $10 billion more would be needed each year to cover the poor fully, including those who work but are not insured.
This would be the case, the study found, even under Medicaid ceilings that would restrict eligibility to those earning less than 75 percent of the $10,560 for a family of three that the Federal Government considers the poverty threshhold. To go further and bring in everyone below the poverty line would cost about $14 billion, John F. Holahan and Sheila R. Zedlewski estimated in the study.
Congress recently relaxed the income restrictions to make it easier for pregnant mothers, children up to 6, and the elderly and disabled to get Medicaid. But the extra costs of allowing still more people to become eligible could more than absorb the hoped-for peace dividends from cutbacks in military spending. And the added costs would be even higher if Medicaid payments to doctors and hospitals were raised to the higher levels of the Federal Medicare program for the elderly and disabled, as is also being discussed.
Connecticut has gone somewhat further in easing Medicaid requirements by adopting a package that would also make private insurance more affordable to small businesses with 25 or fewer employees. The many insurance companies based in Hartford hope that the Connecticut plan will be a precedent. They are fighting proposals in California and other states that would turn much of their business over to a government-controlled system like that of Canada.
But Connecticut is hardly typical. ''Connecticut is essentially a very wealthy state with a reasonably good Medicaid program, fewer unemployed, more large employers who provide health coverage, and very responsible insurance leaders,'' said Lawrence S. Lewin, president of Lewin/ICF, a Washington consulting firm.
He likes a proposal by Paul H. O'Neill, chairman of the Aluminum Company of America, which would eliminate employer-paid health benefits and raise wages instead. Under the plan, which Mr. O'Neill recently sketched to the Federal Advisory Council on Social Security and Health Care, employees would have to buy their own health insurance with help, initially, from a tax break.
Ann Labelle, executive director of the advisory council, said Mr. O'Neill's ideas, which are still being developed, would be studied along with a number of other proposals, such as ''nationalizing'' the Connecticut approach, making Medicare a universal benefit, and establishing a Federal reinsurance pool for catastrophic illnesses so private insurance rates could be lowered.
The council is also reviewing a proposal by the Pepper Commission, a bipartisan group headed by Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia, to replace Medicaid with a new Federal program. Under the Pepper plan, employers would be required to provide health benefits for their workers or pay into state and regional pools to cover the uninsured.
The Pepper proposals would cost $23.4 billion in added Government spending, plus $20 billion from employers. But expanding Medicaid without a plan to make employers pay would cost ''about 50 percent more and cover only about half of the uninsured,'' said Judith Feder, staff director of the Pepper group.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (59%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION); NURSING HOMES; HOSPITALS; RATES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT MEDICAID (92%); LITIGATION (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); APPEALS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FAMILY (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 



704 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: For Trump, Seeds of a Comeback

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump has lost his aura, and a substantial amount of management freedom. But he has maintained his ownership of 100 percent of his empire. And in that small victory could lie the seeds of a comeback for the battered developer.
Yesterday's 30-day loan by a group of banks provides only a brief respite, but in a longer five-year deal, agreed to in principle, Mr. Trump will have time to maneuver and reason to hope that he can rebound. 
By not giving up any ownership of assets, Mr. Trump could find himself in a position to benefit if the New York real estate and Atlantic City casino markets again show rising values.
 
Might Have It Both Ways
If that happens, Mr. Trump might have it both ways: He could end up having paid less to the banks than he would have if he had been able to meet his bills, but still get the entire benefit of rising asset prices.
On the other hand, if those markets do not turn around, and if cash flows from Mr. Trump's assets, which include the largest strip of vacant land in Manhattan and three casinos in New Jersey, are not sufficient, both he and the banks could end up with substantial losses.
In the five-year deal, Mr. Trump has won lower interest rates from the banks and a deferral of cash interest payments on many of his loans. In return, he has given up control over some of the cash flow in the Trump empire, and has agreed to bring in a new top financial executive and provide the banks with detailed financial information on his businesses.
 
Incentives Provided
The deal with the banks provides incentives - in the form of interest rate rebates - if Mr. Trump is able to pay back his loans sooner rather than later. Such a repayment would almost certainly come from selling one or more major assets, and if such sales are made the cash would go first to the banks, with Mr. Trump having no opportunity to reinvest the money. But Mr. Trump appears to retain control over the decisions of what assets to sell, and when to sell them.
Even if all works out financially for Mr. Trump, he has lost a large part of his image as a larger-than-life entrepreneur of untold wealth, and has been subjected to mocking commentary from around the world. ''The value of the Trump name,'' said Clive Chejet, president of Lippincott & Margulies, a consulting firm in New York, ''is no longer associated with glittering success; it is associated, at the very least, with serious financial difficulties.'' Reviving the Trump gloss, he added, would be ''extremely difficult.''
Mr. Trump, ebullient as ever, sees a different result, with the value of the name ''greatly enhanced'' by the deal. ''There was a media stampede,'' he said yesterday, ''but when you come through adversity, I think people respect that.''
 
No Longer Seems So Paltry
It was only a few months ago, when Mr. Trump's marital problems were making news, that the general opinion was that his wife, Ivana, had made a bad deal when she agreed to take only $25 million in case of a divorce. That no longer seems so paltry.
His aura as a big spender was certainly enhanced by the final leak from the talks, that the banks had insisted his family get by on $450,000 a month - not counting expenses like mortgage payments and the costs of running his yacht and private plane - for the rest of this year, and gradually scale back that spending to $300,000 a month by 1992.
Mr. Trump is far from the only Northeastern real estate developer who has run into financial problems, although he has received the most publicity. That partly stems from the attention he sought and craved when he was riding high. But it also stemmed from the fact that his three Atlantic City casinos had sold ''junk bonds'' to the public, making detailed financial records on them available to the public.
 
Bond Issues Provoked Crisis
It was two of those bond issues that provoked the crisis that led to yesterday's loan of $20 million, which went to meet obligations to owners of bonds issued by Trump's Castle, the least successful of his three casinos.
While the casino has not earned enough to meet the obligations on those bonds, the bonds were well secured, having a first mortgage on the casino. By contrast, some of the bank loans had much less protection, creating an incentive for the banks to avoid an early liquidation, which could have led to big losses.
That situation is not usual. In most cases, the junk bonds have much less standing than the bank loans, and as a result the banks are less willing to bail out junk bond holders when a crisis arises.
 
No Equity for Bankers
The fact that Mr. Trump was negotiating with bankers, rather than bondholders, may also account for his success in not giving up any partial ownership of his assets. ''Bondholders might demand equity,'' said one money manager, Thomas S. Drumm, the director of the fixed income group at the Keystone Group, a mutual fund organization that has the country's oldest junk bond fund. ''But bankers don't want any equity, and may question whether there is any there.''
Whether or not there is any equity in the Trump Organization depends on how much the assets are worth, which will only be clear with time. But for Mr. Trump, the best feature of yesterday's deal with the banks is that if there is any, he gets to keep it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP ORGANIZATION (58%); TRUMP'S CASTLE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP ORGANIZATION

SUBJECT: CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SALES REBATES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (93%); 



705 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar in a Broad Decline; Gold Prices Down in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined against all leading currencies yesterday after the markets became pessimistic about Congress reaching a budget accord, traders said.
Gold prices fell domestically and overseas on unconfirmed reports of selling in the Middle East.
Foreign exchange dealers said the dollar rose earlier in the day on reports that President Bush might be ready to ease his opposition to raising taxes to gain a compromise on reducing the Federal budget deficit. 
But the market learned later that Mr. Bush's comments were vague, sending the dollar down, said Walter Simon, a vice president at Bank Julius Baer & Company in New York.
''What appeared to first be positive turned out negative,'' he said.
Mr. Simon said the major movement in the currency markets was toward the mark, which gained on a statement by the West German central bank that it would accept higher domestic interest rates. Higher rates tend to make a currency more valuable relative to other currencies.
The mark has also been supported by optimism about the outcome of the plan to unify the currencies of the two Germanys in July, traders said.
In Tokyo, the dollar eased to 155.40 yen from 155.62 late Monday. In London, the dollar was lower at 155.20 yen. Later, in New York, the dollar closed at 154.55 yen, down from 155.40.
In London, one pound cost $1.7360 late yesterday, more expensive for buyers than Monday's late rate of $1.7300. In New York, a pound cost $1.7430, more than the $1.7305 late Monday.
Other late rates for the dollar in New York, compared with Monday's late quotes, included: 1.6618 West German marks, down from 1.6775; 1.3975 Swiss francs, down from 1.4100; 5.5770 French francs, down from 5.6315; 1,217.50 Italian lire, down from 1,228.25; and 1.1719 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17705.
On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for June delivery closed at $350.40 an ounce, off $3.40. Later, Republic National Bank in New York quoted an ounce of gold at $350.10, off $2.70.
In gold trading, dealers in Zurich said the metal appeared to have fallen into a lower trading range of $348 to $353.
The late bid price for gold in London was $349.50 an ounce, down from $353.50 late Monday. The late bid price in Zurich was $350.00, down from $353.50.
Silver bullion traded late in London at a bid of $4.79 an ounce, down from $4.85. In New York trading, silver for June delivery closed at $4.820 an ounce on the Comex, up from $4.816 Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); SWITZERLAND (88%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); NEW YORK (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



706 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-16
 
A terrorist was harbored in Hungary in 1979, according to letters and documents produced by Hungary's new Interior Minister. The international terrorist known as Carlos reportedly received asylum from Janos Kadar, the long-time Communist leader.
 Page A1

 
American opposition to financial aid for the Soviet Union from Western Europe appears to have softened following pressure on the Bush Administration by some NATO allies. A8

 
House approves more assistance for East Europe A6

 
Negotiators fix curbs on armies A8

 
Moscow journal: From Russia with love A4

 
The residents of Quedlinburg, a small town in East Germany, should be rejoicing that some of its greatest treasures had been found in Texas. But most have more pressing matters on their minds. A8 
 
 
Deutsche Bank plans venture in East A8

 
The earthquake relief effort in Iran has been viewed by President Hashemi Rafsanjani as an opportunity to improve long-strained relations with the U.S. and other Western nations, diplomats said. A16
 
Iran's relief society drops estimate of death toll A16

 
A West German businessman is jailed in sale to Libya A12

 
Destruction of the ozone layer is proceeding even faster than scientists had feared, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain warned representatives of more than 100 nations.
 A11

 
France's far-rightist National Front appears to be setting the country's political agenda. The Socialist Government is pledging a new fight against social inequality and two conservative parties have buried their differences to form an alliance. A10

 
Guatemala has been hit by violence and human rights abuses five months before elections. Prominent businessmen, politicians, diplomats and human rights campaigners have been killed or have just disappeared. A3

 
Contras yield arms in ceremony
 A3

 
Communist unrest in the Philippines prompted the Peace Corps to order its 261 volunteers out of the country. Intelligence reports indicated that the volunteers had become targets of Communist insurgents. A13

 
National A18-23, B8-9, D21

 
A major flaw in the Hubble telescope was found by engineers. It is likely to cripple the ability of the $1.5 billion space observatory to view the depths of the universe for several years. A1

 
Two affirmative action programs aimed at increasing minority ownership of broadcast licenses were upheld by the Supreme Court. The ruling affirmed the power of Congress to enact programs that favor blacks and other minorities. A1

 
Child abuse victims may be shielded by testifying on closed-circuit television rather than facing their accused assailants in the courtroom, the Supreme Court ruled. A1

 
Panel declares child abuse represents ''national emergency''
 B9

 
Abortions harder to get in rural areas of nation
 A18

 
Louisiana passes tough law to limit abortions
 A18

 
Two studies on America's youth paint a portrait of a generation that is indifferent toward public affairs. These members of the ''baby bust'' seem to be rebelling against rebellion. A1

 
The star witness in the Barry trial took the stand. Rasheeda Moore spun out a tale of an adulterous two-year relationship with Mayor Barry in which she used drugs with him more than 100 times. A1

 
A revolt by Republicans in Congress followed President Bush's decision to renounce his 1988 campaign pledge to oppose new taxes. The White House struggled to contain the political damage. A20

 
Economic analysis: Proposal to raise taxes is a huge gamble
 A20

 
Bush's shift on taxes brings better mood to budget talks
 A20

 
A heat wave in the Southwest has driven temperatures to record highs in the 120's and brought life to a slowdown as distant mountains shimmer in the harsh light. A18

 
Health agency wants uniform food labels A20

 
Nelson Mandela visited a church in Atlanta, the cradle of the civil rights movement, to listen to the rhythmic preaching that helped fuel that now long-ago struggle. A22

 
De Klerk speaks of a new constitution A22

 
Union head in Alabama race A23

 
Hispanic district in Los Angeles A23

 
Regional B1-6

 
A rate increase for cable customers in Manhattan became likely as the Board of Estimate renewed the franchises of the two cable television companies serving the borough until the year 2003. A1

 
New York City may meet a deadline it set two years ago to stop putting children in tawdry welfare hotels. But in rushing to move the children into public housing projects, the city has pitted their families against working-class tenants of those projects. A1

 
It was the last day of the school year at P.S. 94 in the north Bronx. It was a year of enormous change for hundreds of children there, but the school has remained essentially the same as it was last September. B1

 
Board of Education gives up power to investigate B2

 
Baruch college is reaccredited B2

 
New York's Planning Commission ended its 52-year life, approving land-use changes for a raft of projects, from a huge development along the Queens waterfront to a biomedical laboratory in upper Manhattan. B1

 
A factory in Hoboken, N.J., will close. The conglomerate that owns Maxwell House announced that it would phase out its coffee plant, the city's largest industrial employer. B1

 
Cuomo rules out action for Adirondack park B3

 
Dinkins seeking to speed $1 billion in taxes B3

 
Zodiac detectives turn to computers and stars B3

 
Four testify on gang terror on night of jogger rape B3

 
CUNY teacher admits he lied in gun testimony B2

 
Lawyer says Khashoggi backdated papers B6

 
Business Digest D1
 
The Home Section

 
Gardens bloom in jars and pots C1

 
Electronics Notebook C1

 
Design conference focuses on children C1

 
Close to Home C2

 
Currents C3

 
A playground of recycled plastic C5

 
Parent & Child C8

 
Colorful couture from Gene Meyer C9

 
A studio that stars Manhattan C10

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Re-creating black vaudeville C13

 
A restored Grand Army Plaza C13

 
Joseph Papp's Festival Latino C15

 
Music: Tracy Chapman C14

 
Nascimento and Shorter C16

 
Torme and Laine C16

 
Jim Hall, a guitar and friends C16

 
Word and Image: $12.3 million for two books by Ken Follett C13

 
On child prodigies C17

 
Health Pages

 
Personal Health B10

 
Study says short women have higher risk of heart attacks B10

 
Court rejects disability pay policy B11

 
Sports

 
Baseball: Canseco becomes highest-paid player D23

 
Mets win again D23

 
Brewers defeat Yankees D24

 
White Sox move into first D24

 
Little to celebrate for Braves D24

 
Basketball: Nets take Coleman D23

 
Knicks draft Mustaf D25

 
Column: Anderson on N.B.A. draft D23

 
Golf: Trevino's caddie a success D26

 
Soccer: Italian and Czech heroes D25

 
Obituaries B12

 
Kemper Marley Sr., an Arizona rancher and liquor distributor
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A24

 
The deficit, without pretense
 
Squeeze apartheid, not de Klerk
 
Last chances in Albany
 
Letters A24

 
Tom Wicker: Revenues, not taxes A25

 
Ronald Steel: Germany in NATO? Not important A25

 
John Allen Paulos: The S & L tab
 A25

 
George Chapline: The folly of mega-science A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HUNGARY (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TERRORISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); EARTHQUAKES (68%); CHILD ABUSE (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); TESTIMONY (64%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); ABORTION (60%); APPROVALS (56%); OZONE DEPLETION (51%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (52%); 



707 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: House Approves More Assistance for East Europe

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
The House of Representatives approved a $15.6 billion foreign aid package today that would reduce United States military assistance to its allies for the 1991 fiscal year and would increase spending on the emerging democracies in Eastern Europe.
The vote was 308 to 117. The bill now advances to the Senate. 
The legislation, reflecting the easing of East-West tensions, provides $4.6 billion for foreign military assistance for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. That is $213 million less than current spending levels, and $412 million less than what the Administration had requested.
In a belt-tightening gesture more symbolic than substantive, lawmakers approved by voice vote an amendment to cut foreign aid across the board by 2 percent. The measure, however, exempted many of the largest components of the bill, including $3 billion in aid to Israel, and yielded reductions totaling about $140 million.
The debate today centered on assistance to the guerrilla alliance in Cambodia and aid to international family planning organizations in Romania.
In a major battle that injected a domestic political dispute into the international arena, lawmakers approved $1.5 million for voluntary family planning in Romania. Lawmakers did not question the need for family planning in Romania, just which organizations would deliver it.
Abortion opponents defeated an amendment that would have earmarked the family planning aid for two organizations that critics said advocate abortions, the International Planned Parenthood Federation and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities.
Supporters of the amendment, who emphasized that the bill prohibited any money for abortions, argued that Planned Parenthood and the United Nations agency were the only family planning organizations now operating in Romania. Under the Government of President Nicolae Ceausescu, who was overthrown six months ago, abortions were subject to heavy penalties and birth control aids were available only on the black market.
Opponents of the measure said that a coalition of health organizations created by the Agency for International Development could deliver that assistance.
In another hotly contested issue, lawmakers approved an amendment offered by Representative Stephen J. Solarz, Democrat of Brooklyn, to send $7 million in ''non-lethal'' aid to the coalition fighting the Vietnam-backed Cambodian Government.
Mr. Solarz argued that the measure prohibited any direct or indirect aid to the Khmer Rouge, the most powerful faction in the three-party coalition, and was the best way to insure that United States can influence a political settlement.
Opponents of the measure contend that assistance to the coalition's two other members, non-Communist groups led by Prince Sihanouk and Son Sann, ultimately supports the Khmer Rouge, and could lead to the re-emergence of the brutal regime that was responsible for the deaths of more than one million Cambodians in the 1970's.
Contrary to expectations, a floor fight over military aid to El Salvador did not materialize, reflecting the fact that discussions are continuing between the Administration and House leaders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); ROMANIA (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION (54%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FAMILY PLANNING (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ABORTION (89%); GENOCIDE (51%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



708 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
U.S. Said to Mute Opposition To European Aid to Soviets

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Under pressure from some NATO allies, the Bush Administration appears to be softening its opposition to Western European financial support for the Soviet Union and is considering expanding its own technical aid to Moscow.
President Bush and the State Department remain reluctant to give American cash aid directly to the Soviet Union in the absence of major economic changes in which the centrally planned economy would be put firmly on a free-market path.
But the Administration has begun looking for more ways to provide technical economic assistance, particularly in the form of experts to help transform Soviet economic institutions.
For instance, the Administration is considering a proposal to send experts to help the Soviets develop and operate a private housing industry. Other proposals include technical help on private banking, a stock market, management training, accounting programs, various forms of entrepreneurial advice, and support for Soviet membership in the International Monetary Fund. 
The Administratioon is also adopting a more tolerant attitude toward West Germany and other European countries that are prepared to grant or loan Moscow some of the $15 billion to $20 billion it is seeking.
 
Behind the Change in Attitude
Behind the Administration's shift, officials said, are pressures from West Germany to give Moscow economic aid in return for its accepting the idea of a united Germany joining NATO and pressures from other European allies for the West to back its professions of good will for Mr. Gorbachev's liberalization program with cash.
Mounting concern in Washington that a collapse of the Soviet economy could weaken the fledgling democracies of Eastern Europe has also contributed to the Administration's change in attitude, the officials said.
Last March, when the House majority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, suggested that the United States consider economic aid to the Soviet Union, President Bush dismissed both the proposal and Mr. Gephardt by saying, ''Maybe he'll come on a good idea one of these days.'' Three months later, though, the Bush Administration is no longer dismissing such proposals out of hand.
 
'The West Can Help'
The State Department spokeswoman, Margaret D. Tutwiler, said today, ''We believe the success of perestroika depends fundamentally on Soviet choices, but the West can help the Soviets through this difficult period.''
The West, she said, shares ''a common interest in the success of political and economic reform in the Soviet Union.''
''We expect there will be a discussion on this subject'' with the European Community and at the July 9 economic summit meeting in Houston, she added.
With that in mind, discussions have begun within the Administration on whether the Western allies can reach understandings that allow West Germany and France to give financial aid or credits to Moscow while the United States and others limit their help to technical assistance.
Administration officials want to avoid a split within the Western alliance on this issue and take the attitude that if the Germans are prepared to give cash aid in return for Soviet backing for their membership in NATO, then why not? as one official put it.
A senior Administration official remarked, ''The United States cannot be in a position of being isolated on this issue'' or it could lose its leadership position in the alliance.
 
Differences in Attitude
There already appear to be subtle differences among senior Administration officials on the issue.
Secretary of State James A. Baker and the President have cited the political and economic difficulties of granting aid to Moscow, but have clearly gone out of their way not to rule anything out. On the other hand, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney has emphasized that as long as Moscow is spending ''enormous amounts of its national wealth on military hardware'' it would be a mistake for the West to give economic assistance.
The Germans and French disagree. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany asked his 11 colleagues in the European Economic Community Tuesday to consider a $15 billion Western aid package to help Mr. Gorbachev get through his current political and economic crisis. He was backed by President Francois Mitterrand of France, but strongly opposed by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain.
The European leaders decided to study Soviet needs and make proposals for short-term credits and longer-term support for economic restructuring.
In the United States, however, there is less political support for aid at a time when the Administration is under pressure to hold down spending. Also, until the Soviets enact legislation freeing emigration, various American laws prevent the government from providing trade benefits, government guaranteed credits or Export-Import Bank loans to Moscow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN FINANCIAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PRIVATE BANKING (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 



709 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Forget the Missing Medieval Artworks! East Germans Treasure the Marks

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: QUEDLINBURG, East Germany, June 21

 BODY:
If they didn't have so much to cheer at and worry about, perhaps the 30,000 people of this townwould be rejoicing that some of its greatest treasures have been found in Texas.
An American lieutenant apparently carried them off in 1945, after the United States Army conquered the town and occupied it for six weeks.
But medieval manuscripts, even if they are gloriously illuminated and bound in gold, ivory and jewels, or a comb for a king's beard can hardly compete for the attention of people who in less than two weeks will pass from poverty into Europe's most prosperous economy, with a currency that for the first time will allow them to buy what they want.
And when they are not voicing their elation at the prospect of the economic union of East and West Germany, the people of Quedlinburg, like the rest of the citizens of this rapidly ebbing country, talk agitatedly about the risky waters they are embarking on. They wonder what they will have to do to acquire as many of the admired West German marks as they long for. 
 
Ownership Is Disputed
But if the finding of the treasures has excited only the few people directly concerned, as the Mayor, Rudolf Rohricht said, among those few there is dissension.
The director of the town's museums, Uta Wagner, is not sure that the artworks should come into the possession of the Lutheran church that claims them because, she said, the church was secularized in the 19th century and its property transferred to the Prussian state and hence to East Germany.
It is a viewpoint that does not sit well with the pastor of the church, the Rev. Friedemann Gosslau, and his custodian, Werner Bley. Angrily, Mr. Bley told a reporter not even to talk to officials like Mrs. Wagner because in his and Mr. Gosslau's view the state had no claim to the missing treasures.
The Mayor, who said he had been a Communist Party member for 26 years, said: ''We support the church. We shouldn't fight over it.'' The main thing, he said, is to bring the artworks back to the church, their historical home. ''We will surely find a state-church consensus,'' he added.
 
Students' Concern Is Jobs
For the moment, however, other things are on people's minds. ''Most of the young people would say, 'What's an old Bible to me?' '' said Elke Neidhardt, a young woman attending a gathering at the pastor's home.
The assistant principal of the high school, Horst Muller, said: ''My students are worried about whether they will graduate into unemployment rather than the guaranteed jobs that used to await them.''
Citing other common worries, Michael Steinmetzer, a reporter on the Quedlinburger Zeitung, a new daily financed by a West German newspaper group, said: ''What will be left of their low pay when high West German social security deductions eat into it? They're unhappy that new regulations will limit the Western food products they hoped to be able to buy.''
Mayor Rohricht said he thought that about one-quarter to one-third of the people had read reports picked up from the American press that artworks dating from the time of the first German kings and emperors had been traced to a vault of the First National Bank of Whitewright, Tex., where the lieutenant's heirs are said to have deposited them.
Local newspapers have said the find may include a richly bound manuscript of the Gospels, the jeweled ivory comb of Henry I, ruler of the Germans from 919 to 936, a precious reliquary and crystal vials. Few people in town know that in the spring a West German foundation paid an art dealer a $3 million ''finder's fee'' for one of the missing Quedlinburg treasures, an illuminated 10th-century manuscript of the Gospels. The manuscript is now in safekeeping just across the border in Wolfenbuttel, West Germany.
 
The Emperors Came Often
Quedlinburg was one of the first capitals of Germany in the days when the capital was wherever the peripatetic kings, later emperors, were in residence. History records at least 67 imperial visits to the town.
Every time a ruler took up residence, he presented a gift to the noblewoman who ruled as abbess over the cloister for aristocrats founded by Henry's widow, Queen Mathilde. Together, these donations make up the bulk of the treasure of the church Mathilde had built on Castle Hill for her convent.
The treasure was on display until 1944, even after Heinrich Himmler, chief of the SS, confiscated the church in 1938 and turned it into a ''Germanic sanctuary,'' in which SS men swore fidelity on a sword that he extended to them. As Allied armies approached late in 1944, the treasure, together with riches from Quedlinburg's many libraries, was crated in 16 cases and stored in a nearby mine shaft. Between the time of the American arrival in April and the crates' delivery to the Town Hall a month later, one case disappeared, said Heinz Muller, father of the assistant high school principal and former director of the town's museums.
When he became the Town Council's cultural director after the Russians occupied Quedlinburg on July 1, 1945, Mr. Muller said, he found all of the precious objects, uncrated, lying about the Town Hall and oversaw their return.
Mr. Muller is one of those who rejoices that some of the missing treasures will be returned from Texas. And Pastor Gosslau and his custodian, Mr. Bley, pray that the artworks will soon come into their care.
Mrs. Wagner, the museum director, said the Gospel recovered by the West German foundation did not belong to the church treasure but to the Library of the Gymnasium, a former church school founded 450 years ago.
But Pastor Gosslau showed a letter from the foundation in which it promised him its eventual return here and included some photographs ''for your anticipatory pleasure.''
Church and town are aware that only in West Germany can the money be found to pay for the return of the artworks should that be necessary. ''It is painful to us that we have to beg to get back what is ours,'' Mr. Bley said.
Pastor Gosslau, who has engaged an American lawyer at the expense of West Germany to recover what may be in Texas, said he was excited and worried about the security problems that publicity was causing for the rich treasure that remains in his church. He wondered why the state would want to contest possession.
''Whoever owns it can never again sleep in peace,'' the pastor said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cathedral in Quedlinburg, East Germany, background, from which medieval manuscripts and other treasures that came to light recently in Texas were apparently looted by an American officer in 1945. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;QUEDLINBURG (EAST GERMANY); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; ART; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); GERMAN MARK (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (60%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); ARMIES (57%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: KAMM, HENRY QUEEN MATHILDE (55%); WERNER BLEY (55%); 



710 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: A Gamble Against Keynesian Theory

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
President Bush's new proposal to raise taxes and cut spending is a huge gamble that he can devise a deficit-cutting plan convincing enough to revive the sluggish United States economy.
The Bush thesis seems to be that raising taxes is necessary to shrink the inflationary budget deficit. Once American businesses and consumers see the deficit declining, their economic behavior will change, the theory goes. They'll stop worrying about inflation, lend their money at lower interest rates, and invest enthusiastically in the nation's businesses. 
The problem is that the Bush proposal, by bleeding upward of $50 billion from Federal spending in a single year, flies in the face of a theory developed in the 1920's and 1930's by John Maynard Keynes, the British economist, and practiced by nearly every American Administration since Franklin D. Roosevelt to avoid recessions.
 
'Playing Russian Roulette'
Keynesian theory, still a mainstay among Western economists, holds that lower taxes and more Government spending constitute the best way to make the economy prosper, particularly when consumers are spending less and companies are cutting back on production, as they are today.
The President's proposal to undo Keynesian stimulus is raising cries of alarm. ''It is coming at the wrong time; the President is playing Russian roulette with the American economy,'' said Robert Giordano, co-director of economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Moreover, though the Reagan Administration criticized Keynesian theory, it nevertheless ended up practicing it. Through much of the 1980's, instead of raising taxes to reduce the budget deficit, Ronald Reagan cut them and put more money in people's pockets. And rather than reduce Federal spending, his Administration made it surge, mostly to rebuild the military.
Now, Mr. Bush is proposing a package of spending cuts and tax revenue increases - mostly through various sales taxes - that would reduce the budget deficit to the $100 billion range or so in 1991. What is more, his proposal comes at a time when many state and local governments are also ignoring Keynesianism, and raising taxes to offset budget deficits that first appeared in 1987.
 
Merits of Bush Plan Noted
Still, the Bush plan does have its merits. One cited by many economists is that if the Government spends less on the military, then the workers and machinery now dedicated to making weapons will be freed for use in civilian production. Spending on things like highways and telecommunications networks creates more jobs and personal wealth than weapons making, economists say.
Secondly, the circumstances are different today than they were in Keynes's day. Keynes assumed that interest rates would not come into play.
''He wrote in the Great Depression, when interest rates were down to zero,'' said Charles L. Schultze, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution. ''But now we are living in a world in which real interest rates are very high, and there is plenty of room to bring them down.''
 
Counting on Interest Rates
Clearly, the Bush Administration is counting on lower interest rates to encourage more spending, particularly for housing, as an offset to the President's new strategy. The assumption is that the Federal Reserve Board will use its powers to bring down rates, perhaps even deciding to do so at a policy-setting meeting next Tuesday. Or, rates will come down on their own in response to the Bush plan.
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has indicated in public statements that the central bank will wait for the latter to happen, rather than act to bring down rates as a safety precaution for the economy.
Theoretically, rates would come down on their own if Americans became convinced that the Government was no longer bent on spending more money than it collected, thus making prices rise. The new, relaxed attitude about inflation would prompt banks, money lenders and pension fund managers to lend their billions at lower interest rates, since they would no longer have to charge an inflation premium. Consumers would borrow more, particularly to buy homes, and business executives would be quicker to buy machinery and build new factories on credit.
 
Speculation on Bush's Thinking
But that is theory. And given the risk, why is President Bush abandoning his no-new-taxes pledge? Economists can only speculate.
One view is that the Bush proposal to raise tax revenues is mainly part of the negotiating strategy to get Congress to agree to a deficit-cutting package. Another is that Mr. Bush is afraid that the alternative to a tax increase is the large across-the-board cut required by the Gramm-Rudman law, which might be more damaging to the economy than selectively raising taxes.
''The Gramm-Rudman cutbacks would surely trigger a recession,'' said Jerry Jordan, chief economist at First Interstate Bank in San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



711 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: De Klerk, Addressing Blacks, Speaks of a New Constitution

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, June 27

 BODY:
President F. W. de Klerk promised black South Africans today that he is prepared to negotiate a new constitution that would eliminate remaining legal bulwarks of apartheid.
Mr. de Klerk also challenged Nelson Mandela's argument that foreign governments should maintain economic sanctions against South Africa and that the African National Congress must continue its armed struggle in order to end apartheid.
The President made these points in a long interview in English on two television channels of the South African Broadcasting Corporation that cater to black viewers. He gave a similar interview in Afrikaans that appeared later on a channel for white viewers. 
The main distinction between the channels is that black programming is carried largely in African languages like Xhosa or Sotho while programming aimed at whites, which many blacks also watch, is in English or Afrikaans, the Dutch-derived language that the majority of whites speak.
 
De Klerk Talks to Blacks
In making his argument, Mr. de Klerk appeared to be trying to upstage Mr. Mandela at home, wooing the nationalist figure's domestic constituency while he is touring the United States.
When a black interviewer observed that some people described the political changes so far as merely cosmetic, Mr. de Klerk responded that the Government had abolished influx control, under which blacks had to carry passes entitling them to be in areas reserved for whites, and the Separate Amenities Act, which permitted local officials to bar blacks from public facilities.
The influx-control legislation was repealed in 1986 and the Separate Amenities Act, last week.
''I really think there is a wide appreciation, even from people strongly opposed to much of what we say, who recognize that what has already taken place is fundamental,'' Mr. de Klerk said.
The President reminded viewers of his promise last week that when Parliament reconvenes early next year, legislation will be introduced to repeal the Group Areas Act, which segregates neighborhoods by race, and the Land Acts, which reserve most property for whites.
The President also ruled out the African National Congress's call for election of a constitutional assembly to negotiate a new constitution and act as an interim government.
''A constitutional assembly elected before you start with negotiations causes a constitutional vacuum, causes uncertainty and undermines the capability of present government structures to continue with good government while negotiations take place,'' Mr. de Klerk said. He criticized Mr. Mandela's insistence that the African National Congress would maintain the guerrilla struggle in launched in 1961, saying that it posed an obstacle to negotiations on the country's future.
 
Remarks on Sanctions
The President further criticized Mr. Mandela's call for the maintenance of sanctions, which he said was harmful to the country's economy at a time of transition.
''Sanctions is another way of shooting South Africa in the foot - not the Government but South Africa and all its people,'' Mr. de Klerk said, adding:
''We're not doing what we do because of sanctions. We're doing what we do because we believe it is right.''
Mr. de Klerk, asked about the growing militance of the white right wing, replied that violence would not be tolerated from either side.
In his interview broadcast later to an Afrikaner audience, Mr. de Klerk said the African National Congress had ''a dualistic approach about peaceful talks and negotiation.''
''Their preaching of violence is still a stumbling block,'' he said. ''We will not allow the country to fall into anarchy. That is why we are continuing to talk to people who are committed to finding peaceful solutions,'' Mr. de Klerk added, implying that the African National Congress would not be the only black group at the negotiating table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (71%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: BLACKS (NON-US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; MANDELA, NELSON; DE KLERK, F W (PRES) FREDERIK WILLEM 'F W' DE KLERK (94%); NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (92%); 



712 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The Deficit, Without Pretense

 BODY:
Grudgingly, belatedly and even now minimally, President Bush at last admits the obvious: Tax revenues have to rise. But that declaration, however cramped, is momentous. By disavowing his misguided pledge to block any new taxes, he frees Congressional Democrats and Republicans to get on with serious budget negotiations. Now Congress can tackle three tough questions:
How much should the Federal deficit be cut?
How much of that cut should be done with tax increases? Which taxes should be raised? The stakes are high. The deficit must be cut by a substantial amount and Congress is always in danger of trying to get away with doing too little. But there's another, less familiar peril. It wouldn't take much to throw the stagnant economy into recession. The negotiators' first task is to cut the deficit without cutting bone. 
What's the right amount to cut? Congress must first decide how much to cut the deficit and then amend the Gramm-Rudman budget law accordingly. Unless changed, it would force Congress to whack almost $200 billion off next year's trillion-dollar budget. That would be six times larger than recent budget cuts. Cuts that huge could precipitate a recession and eviscerate every discretionary domestic program, from education grants to the Border Patrol.
Excessive deficits harm the economy by siphoning money away from capital markets. That money would otherwise go to corporate investment in new plant and equipment. Without it, there is no short-run calamity. But over time, an economy that does not invest does not grow.
The remedy is to commit the Government to steady deficit reduction. That requires hard choices - but not risking recession or gutting social programs. Since 1985, Congress has reduced the deficit, measured in relation to the size of the economy, by nearly half. In recent years, that has been achieved with annual cuts of about $30 billion. Cuts of that order would suffice next year as well.
What's the right mix of taxes and cuts? A reasonable rule of thumb would be to achieve at least half of next year's deficit reduction through tax increases. That would mean raising about $15 billion, which would still leave Americans lightly taxed. To raise less in new taxes would mean cutting more in military and domestic spending.
What are the right taxes to cut? Fortunately, raising taxes by $15 billion or so requires nothing draconian. It could be done by imposing a small 5 percent excise tax on energy use. That might amount to a nickel a gallon on gasoline, for instance. Even with the new tax, energy prices here would remain below those of Western Europe. And the tax would help conserve energy and fight pollution.
Congress could raise an additional $10 billion or more from higher ''sin'' taxes on alcohol and tobacco. Like energy taxes, these taxes produce secondary benefits: fewer highway fatalities and lower health costs. To protect poor families, Congress could boost the Earned Income Tax Credit - an income supplement for parents in low-wage jobs -and other targeted subsidies.
Energy and sin taxes alone could solve the new tax problem, without jeopardizing the grand tax reform compromise of 1986. Specifically, Congress is not compelled to grant Mr. Bush's ill-conceived wish to lower the tax on capital gains - which would generate extra revenues next year, but lower them steadily thereafter.
As opinion polls demonstrate, everyone has known, for a long time, that taxes must go up to control the deficit. But no Congressional leader could say so while President Bush remained obstinately unwilling to say so.
Now that he has at least crossed the verbal threshold to sane policy, the Administration and Congress can get to work on a balanced program of tax increases and expenditure cuts. After nearly two years, the central issue of American politics can now be addressed with sense, not pretense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1988; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



713 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Some Donations Cost Charities Too Much

 BODY:
To the Editor:
With apologies to Howard Schneider for not picking up his offered donation (letter, May 30), the sad truth is that it often costs the charity more to collect and transport a donation than the value of that donation. Responsible charities must make difficult economic decisions when deciding whether or not to pick up a donation. It would not be responsible to pay more to collect or transport a gift than the value of the gift. It is indeed unfortunate that the high cost of transportation has put charities in this difficult situation.
At Goodwill Industries, we search for the most efficient way to collect donations so that we can avoid saying no to our donors. We are always happy to accept donations at one of our thrift shops or our collection stations around the city.
Because Goodwill has worked hard to be a good steward of the public's gifts, we were able to serve almost 9,000 people in 1989, which is more than twice the 1988 number. We were able to place more than 1,300 people in competitive employment after they received vocational training and other services.
 
REX L. DAVIDSON
Executive Director, Goodwill
Industries of Greater New York
 Astoria, Queens, June 11, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES; SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GOODWILL INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: HOWARD SCHNEIDER (74%); 



714 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Revenues, Not Taxes

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker; A.M. Rosenthal is traveling.

 BODY:
If anything can, President Bush's flip-flop on taxes, plus two others on spotted owls and off-shore oil drilling, ought to bring his approval rating down from the unreal 70-plus percent he's been enjoying.
But don't bank on it. That kind of popularity may be based less on issues than on a nice-guy exterior, a folks-next-door syntax and a motherly First Lady with a hometown hairdo.
Still, since Mr. Bush just recently reversed himself on helping the third world protect the ozone layer, for him to take three more about-face steps in a single day suggests that the heat is making him uncomfortable in the kitchen. 
Partially reneging on spotted owls as an endangered species, while limiting the support Republicans have been giving to off-shore oil drilling, pleased neither side of either issue. When at the same time Mr. Bush abandoned his no-new-taxes pledge - the hard core of his 1988 campaign, and of his party's strategy in the Reagan-Bush years - he outraged Republicans running for office in 1990. They think he sabotaged their best issue to avoid a recession when he runs for re-election in 1992.
Democrats, however, should temper their glee. On the tax issue, there may be method in Mr. Bush's alleged surrender.
His list of things that need to be done to fight the deficit included code words for the capital gains tax break he lusts for. The easiest new revenues, however, would be obtained from higher sin taxes and other excises. If that's the final mix, the Democrats will have been conned into a tax benefit for the rich and a regressive tax increase for everybody else.
The hit list also included ''entitlement and mandatory program reform.'' That parses out to some kind of limits on Social Security, retirement, health and other benefits for people who tend to vote Democratic. Is that a good swap in return for new taxes on many of the same people? And to pay down a deficit that does not clearly and immediately threaten them, if at all?
Worse, and even if a new tax burden is spread equitably among rich and poor, Mr. Bush can and probably will campaign for Republican candidates next fall on the premise: ''Don't blame me. The spendthrift Democrats made me do it.''
Worse still, maybe there's more truth than poetry in what some Republicans are counting on, that Mr. Bush only called for ''new tax revenues'' - not for new taxes. That leaves him what supple politicians A. M. Rosenthal is traveling. admire as ''wiggle room'' to back out of the arrangement if the Democrats are insistent on raising taxes he doesn't want to raise - say, on the incomes of the rich. He could, and probably would, then tell the electorate next fall: ''They tried to raise your taxes and I wouldn't stand for it.''
He may even have been right the first time, that new taxes are not needed. There's no automatic link between the deficit and interest rates, despite cries to the contrary. A substantial reduction in the Federal deficit could be damaging to what is at best a tentative economy. And the Gramm-Rudman limit of $64 billion on a 1991 Federal deficit likely to be $160 billion can't be reached without disastrous recessionary effect.
If the deficit is not reduced to that level, however, the foolish Gramm-Rudman law will mandate draconian budget cuts to reach it. The Republicans do not want to make such cuts in military expenditures; the Democrats are anxious to avoid them in non-military programs; and no one wants a recession.
The threat of Gramm-Rudman, therefore, far more than the more touted threat of the deficit itself, is the major reason why negotiators for both parties want deficit reduction -even at the cost of higher taxes, and even though they concede that they'll still have to adjust the Gramm-Rudman limits upward.
Why not repeal a bad law and be done with it, if its supposed disciplinary effect is going to be eased anyway? And does Ronald Reagan's deficit, which has been around for nearly a decade without producing the various catastrophes so often predicted, really demand a tax increase?
A vitally needed public investment (an important form of savings) in education, research, the environment, roads, bridges, housing, renewable energy sources, etc., would serve far better purposes. In addition to meeting real needs, such investment would put thousands of idle Americans to work, including many now headed for the welfare rolls and/or the penitentiary. That in turn would produce the new tax revenues Mr. Bush finally admits are necessary -but without new taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



715 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: New Haven's Bond Rating Is Downgraded by Moody's

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, June 27

 BODY:
Citing the rapid weakening of the city's financial position over the last two years, Moody's Investors Service today lowered its rating of New Haven's bonds. 
The action came four months after the other major bond rating service, Standard & Poor's Corporation, downgraded its assessment of New Haven's financial strength.
A lower bond rating means the city must pay higher interest rates on the bonds it sells to investors to finance building and other capital projects.
Moody's said the new administration of Mayor John C. Daniels had moved quickly to address the city's financial problems, but ''the already severe nature of prior financial problems will require extended commitment and demonstrable progress to regain fiscal stability.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN)

SUBJECT: RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS FINANCIAL RATINGS (94%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (94%); BONDS (93%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 



716 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: President Announces Plan For More Latin Debt Relief

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Under pressure from Latin American countries who fear that Eastern Europe is draining Western aid programs, President Bush today announced an expansion of Washington's debt-relief program for the region and proposed the creation of a free-trade zone for the hemisphere.
Although it was accompanied by the soaring oratory of a major foreign policy initiative, Mr. Bush's plan amounted primarily to an extension of a program initiated by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady in March 1989 to help Latin America reduce the $388 billion in crippling debts it owed to foreign governments and banks.
But international bankers and some other specialists in Latin American debt problems said Mr. Bush was proposing a significant expansion of the existing program. Some suggested that the announcement also had an important political aspect, since it comes at a time of mounting concern in Latin America about Mr. Bush's financial commitment to his own region. 
''I know there is some concern that the revolutionary changes we've witnessed this past year in Eastern Europe will shift our attention away from Latin America,'' Mr. Bush said in a White House speech to Latin American diplomats and Washington-based bankers.
''But I want to assure all of you here today,as I've assured many democratic leaders in Central and South America and the Caribbean and Mexico, the United States will not lose sight of the tremendous challenges and opportunities right here in our own hemisphere.''
Talking to reporters later, Mr. Brady also noted the region's concerns about Eastern Europe and said Mr. Bush's proposals were intended to reward ''a quieter but equally dramatic revolution that has occurred in Latin America and the Caribbean.''
In outlining his program, Mr. Bush said his Administration would negotiate to reduce $7 billion of the $12 billion in loans to Latin American Governments made by the United States Government.
Mr. Bush did not say how much of the $7 billion would be reduced. The existing debt-reduction plan introduced by Mr. Brady, covers only loans from commercial banks.
Mr. Bush also proposed increasing the pool of funds available to help Latin American countries guarantee loan payments to commercial banks in exchange for reduction of their debt. Administration officials said the largest debtor nations could receive as much as $200 million in additional aid from the expanded pool.
 
Free-Trade Agreements
He said his Administration stood ready to negotiate free-trade agreements with individual countries or groups of countries, as a prelude to a trade zone for the hemisphere in the future. And he pledged to help the hemisphere's developing nations win tariff reductions in the United States and around the world on critical exports.
Free-trade zones eliminate all tariffs and other trade barriers, thus reducing the cost of exports.
The President also offered a modest increase of $100 million a year in United States aid to promote financial reforms in Latin America and the Caribbean.
That was the only actual Federal spending included in the program, called ''Enterprise for the Americas.'' The initiative was presented in vague terms that made it difficult to assess its potential impact on trade, industrial development or debt reduction in the hemisphere.
 
New Economic Partnership
The program commits the United States to few immediate actions, and Administration officials acknowledged that the thrust of Mr. Bush's proposals was to provide long-term incentives for growth, not immediate help. In his speech, Mr. Bush said, ''All signs point to the fact that we must shift the focus of our economic interaction toward a new economic partnership, because prosperity in our hemisphere depends on trade, not aid.''
International bankers and some other specialists in Latin American debt welcomed Mr. Bush's initiative, particularly his offer to begin reducing governmental loans to Latin American countries.
Barber Conable, president of the World Bank, said in a written statement, ''By combining proposals for freer trade, debt reduction and increased investment in the region, the impact of each should be multiplied.''
''This is a well-timed and comprehensive speech,'' said M. Peter McPherson, executive vice president in charge of debt restructuring for the Bank of America. He noted that it came at a time when there were increasing demands in Latin America to expand the debt-reduction program initiated by Treasury Secretary Brady.
The new program also comes at a time when the United States has already registered a hesitant response to a Mexican proposal for a free-trade zone made earlier this year. Though Mr. Bush's program could have the effect of swallowing up the Mexican proposal, he and his aides made it clear that the new initiative would take more than a decade to put in place.
Mr. Bush said he would negotiate free-trade agreements with Latin American countries that ''demonstrate a commitment to economic reform, including trade and investment liberalization.'' More immediately, he offered to negotiate ''framework agreements'' for discussing trade issues.
Mr. Bush proposed a new investment loan program in the Inter-American Development Bank, a multinational lending organization much like the World Bank, to help countries privatize government industries.
He also said the United States would give $100 million a year to provide grants to countries undertaking reforms like privatizing industries and removing restrictions on currency and foreign investment. The grants are contingent on matching contributions from Japan and the European Community nations.
To help debt-reduction, Mr. Bush proposed that money from the Inter-American Development Bank be added to the funds used to help Latin American nations restructure their commercial debts by providing guarantees on new loans. This pool currently amounts to about $30 billion from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Japan. It was not clear how much would be added.
Mr. Bush also offered to reduce some of the $7 billion in loans given to Latin American nations as part of the Food for Peace and Agency for International Development aid programs. The Treasury Department said this could cut loans more than 50 percent in some cases.
Mr. McPherson said these aspects of the program were the most important. ''The reduction of official debt is a logical complement to the Brady plan reduction of commercial bank debt,'' he said.
He added, ''One of the major burdens in negotiating further Brady agreements is the availability of money from the official sector to put together the packages. The President's suggestion that the Inter-American bank could play an expanded role in providing those resources is a particularly positive one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; LATIN AMERICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); FOREIGN LENDING (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BRADY, NICHOLAS; ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



717 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Indicators Rose 0.8% Last Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
The Government's economic forecasting index climbed eight-tenths of 1 percent in May, continuing its bumpy pattern of recent months and confirming, analysts said, expectations that the economy will eke out gains in coming months and avoid a recession.
The rise in the index of leading economic indicators - which fell in April after rising in March - was about as anticipated. But it was seen as somewhat exaggerating economic strength since the biggest contributor was a jump in the length of the factory workweek. Much of this was thought to reflect a reluctance by Detroit to add new employees as it approaches contract negotiations. 
At the same time, some economists said they were disturbed by a hefty decline in the component that measures the confidence of consumers, who account for some two-thirds of economic activity.
The overall May result, declared David W. Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, ''indicates continued slow growth of the economy,'' which he estimated expanded at an annual rate of a bit less than 2 percent for the quarter that ends on Saturday.
But despite such lackluster growth - and some sectors like housing are contracting - most analysts contend that a general downturn remains unlikely. ''If we were to have a recession, the leading index would be missing it,'' Mr. Berson said.
 
'Subdued' Expansion
The record shows that the index, designed by the Commerce Department to call economic turns six to nine months in advance, sometimes predicts recessions that do not then occur but almost never fails to warn of those that do occur.
According to Joan D. Schneider, an economist for Continental Bank of Chicago, the barometer continues to emit signals consistent with ''subdued'' expansion.
Seven of the 11 components contributed to the May advance, with much of the strength reflecting an apparent bottoming out of the decline in the industrial sector.
In addition to the longer workweek, there was a firming of prices of materials particularly sensitive to the business cycle; an advance in manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods; higher stock prices; a decline in initial claims for state unemployment insurance; slower deliveries by vendors and a rise in contracts and orders for plant and equipment.
Three components - besides the consumer expectations survey, which is conducted by the University of Michigan - held the leading index down. These were a lower money supply, a drop in building permits and a decline in unfilled orders at factories.
 
Coincident Indicators
The May increase of eight-tenths of 1 percent, to 146.2, followed a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent in April -initially reported as a two-tenths decline - and a 1 percent increase for March.
A private forecasting index compiled by Safian Investment Research gained 1.1 percent in May, the New York firm reported. This was the best gain since August but rising components outnumbered falling ones by a margin of only 12 to 11.
The Government's report today also showed that its index of coincident indicators edged up one-tenth of 1 percent last month while its index of lagging indicators eased two-tenths of 1 percent. The former is designed to track current economic conditions; the latter's seven components, including consumer prices and the prime rate, are those that tend to lag behind changes in the economy at large.
''The recent declines in consumer expectations and household spending suggest that the broader economy remains weak, despite the slight pickup in industrial production,'' said Robert T. McGee, an economist at Tokai Bank in New York. ''More slow growth is still the best bet for the U.S. economy.''

GRAPHIC: Graph: index of 11 indicators designed to ''lead'' or predict overall economic activity, Dec. 1988-May 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.); chart: components of the index of leading economic indicators and their contribution to the index's change from April to May. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); SAFIAN INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); RECESSION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); BUILDING PERMITS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR DAVID W BERSON (64%); 



718 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: An Eager Texas Buyer Of Failed Savings Units

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
As the Government sells off hundreds of failed savings and loan associations, its biggest customer is right here in Texas, where so many of the problems began.
NCNB Texas, the distant outpost of a leading North Carolina banking company, is sweeping through the Texas countryside, buying sick savings units at a healthy clip. NCNB Texas's strategy of picking up valuable deposit franchises and leaving the troubled loans in Government hands has enabled it to become the biggest bank in one of the nation's biggest banking markets.
And, in doing so, the bank has set a formula that is expected to be followed by other banks as they bid on the hundreds of savings units - an estimated 800 in the next four years - that may soon come up for sale. 81 of 110 Sales Go to Banks ''We're interested in building a banking franchise in Texas,'' said Timothy P. Hartman, who became chairman of NCNB Texas when it was created in 1988. ''There's not a banker in America that wouldn't fight tooth and nail for good loans.'' And that is in addition to some $6.9 billion in newly acquired core deposits from failed savings units that have given NCNB Texas a toehold in towns like Cedar Hill and Greenville as well as cities like Houston and San Antonio. 
So far, banks have been the biggest buyers of savings units. Of the 110 sold by the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Government entity disposing of savings assets, a total of 81 have been acquired by banks - and 18 by NCNB Texas, more than anyone else. The remaining 29 have been bought by other savings institutions.
One by one, these sales are quietly bringing about a shift in financial assets from savings associations to commerical banks. Indeed, these sales are shrinking the industry: for every bank that buys a savings unit, one less savings unit exists. Its deposits and some of its loans become bank property.
''The acquisition process of NCNB and many other banks is a very significant indicator of the future of the thrift industry,'' said Bert Ely, a savings industry consultant. ''From an economic perspective, you no longer need a separate thrift industry, and this eliminates a lot of excess capacity in the deposit-taking business, This is one of the silver linings of the thrift cleanup process.''
 
Savings Group Sees a Problem
But others argue that the sales do not really resolve the savings crisis, since the Government is still left with assets the acquiring banks do not want - generally shaky real estate loans and foreclosed properties. ''Selling deposits is not a major accomplishment,'' said Dennis J. Jacobe, research director at the United States League of Savings Institutions, a trade group. ''The R.T.C. takes back many of the loans, so the problem is basically left with the R.T.C. It's a non-resolution resolution.''
But it is precisely the ability to bid only for the good assets that makes banks active buyers. For many banks, particularly those seeking to expand retail operations, these troubled units have attractive deposit franchises - a core base of customers who are sources of low-cost money that can be lent out at higher rates and who are also potential buyers of high-margin consumer loans.
For that reason, it is not only NCNB Texas, whose Charlotte, N.C.-based parent is the NCNB Corporation, that is bidding. In Texas, both the Banc One Corporation and the Hibernia Corporation have walked away with several savings units that NCNB Texas bid on but lost.
 
Bank Deals in Other States
Outside Texas, interest is equally keen. In Arizona, for instance, the BankAmerica Corporation acquired the insolvent Western Savings and Loan Association, the state's second-largest savings unit, topping a bid by the Security Pacific Corporation. In Minneapolis, the Norwest Corporation recently acquired First Minnesota Savings Bank.
In Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh National Bank, the city's largest bank, merged with the city's largest savings unit, First Federal of Pittsburgh. Near Chicago, Harris Bankcorp and Citicorp have acquired suburban savings institutions while a bidding war is expected to break out over several other suburban institutions coming up for sale.
But NCNB Texas was in the field first. In fact, NCNB Texas itself was created in 1988 from the remnants of Texas's biggest failed banking company, the First Republicbank Corporation. Since then, NCNB Texas has grown into a statewide network of 250 branches, with $33 billion in assets, and is the largest subsidiary of the NCNB Corporation. NCNB, whose initials formerly stood for North Carolina National Bank, has operations concentrated in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. NCNB Texas is nearly twice the size of its nearest competitors - Texas Commerce Bankshares Inc. and the Banc One Corporation.
 
Risks Go to Government
NCNB Texas's acquisition of First Republicbank assets set it up here almost overnight. NCNB Texas initially paid only $210 million for a 20 percent stake in the failed First Republicbank, with the assurance that the Government would assume the risk for loan losses. That ability to transfer bad loans to the Government has been the underpinning of all deals done since.
''Our initial reaction was to transfer the risk to the Government,'' Mr. Hartman said in his 71st-floor office here. ''Any executive would react the same way. We are committed to raising capital, but not to assuming risk for troubled loans. The quality of loans here is severe enough that transferring risk to banks with fiduciary responsibilty doesn't make sense. And other potential investors are arriving at the same conclusion.''
The initial NCNB Texas deal is also considered one of the sweetest ever struck with regulators. In return for its initial investment, NCNB Texas got all First Republicbank deposits, its choice of loans and some $2.8 billion in tax benefits that will allow it to operate virtually tax free for another three to five years. NCNB invested an additional $1.1 billion in 1989 to buy the remaining 80 percent of First Republicbank from the Government, and ultimately brought its total investment to $1.7 billion.
 
'A Clean Bank With No Risk'
The loans that NCNB did not want were transferred to a special asset bank, which is owned by regulators and managed by NCNB Texas for a fee.
''Basically, NCNB got a clean bank in Texas with no risk,'' said Frank Anderson, an analyst with Stephens Inc., a Little Rock, Ark., broker. ''It's a sweet deal; no doubt, the best ever done with regulators. But you can't discount the fact that NCNB made it work. And that set a new standard on how to buy a bank.''
Mr. Hartman is defensive about charges that NCNB Texas's growth came all too easy. ''In hindsight, the transaction appears to have required little effort, but I can't tell you the effort involved,'' he said of the deal. That effort included streamlining the operations of First Republicbank and picking through the bank's loan portfolio to determine which loans could be sold to other financial intermediaries, restructured or foreclosed, and which NCNB would keep. In the process, NCNB gained the reputation of a tight-fisted lender with initials that stood for ''No Cash for No Body.''
 
Two Elements That Aided Growth
The experience with First Republicbank also left NCNB Texas with two elements that have aided growth here - tax benefits that allow it to bid aggressively for insolvent Texas savings units as well as a sharp understanding of the depth of problems in troubled loan portfolios. The tax benefits give the bank money to bid, and the understanding of the problems has made it reluctant to assume many loans.
For instance, when it acquired the Houston-based University Savings Association last year, NCNB Texas was happy to gain some $3.5 billion in deposits but agreed to buy only about 15 percent of University's $2.5 billion in loans. In general, Mr. Hartman said, NCNB Texas will keep from 5 percent to 15 percent of an acquired savings institution's loan portfolio.
''NCNB Texas is primarily buying deposits and customers and doesn't want to take much of the loan risks,'' said Moshe A. Orenbuch, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
Added Richard Stillinger, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.: ''The thrift acquisitions give them more locations to take advantage of the potential market for consumer lending. The more locations they can build, the greater the opportunities they have.''
 
NCNB's Approach Questioned
Yet, some question NCNB's approach. Paul Horvitz, a finance professor at the University of Houston and a former Federal regulator, is worried that current policy could lead to too much bank concentration. He pointed out that the bailout legislation makes it easy for commercial banks to acquire insolvent savings institutions, but harder for savings units to buy them.
''At some point the R.T.C. ought to be paying attention to market share,'' Professor Horvitz said. ''One advantage Texas had was a relatively unconcentrated banking structure. We can't go back to that. But it would be unfortunate if one or two institutions ended up with predominant market share.''
Gerard L. Smith, a managing director at Salomon Brothers Inc., questions whether NCNB's desire to be a big player in Texas is wise, the low cost of entry notwithstanding. ''What efficiencies are there to be gained?'' he asked. ''You've got to run two operations, and you've got a massive investment 2,000 miles from headquarters. And where are you? Texas is a tough market where the competition for funds and assets is fierce.''
Mr. Hartman disagrees strongly: ''We think this is the best banking market today. Otherwise, we would not have invested $1.7 billion here.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: NCNB Texas employees sheltered from a chill January rain to watch the company logotype go up at a former Dallas branch of the University Federal Savings Association. NCNB Texas bought the ailing institution as part of its program of building a Texas banking franchise. (J. Rick Kaski) (pg. D1); Chart: NCNB Texas' acquisitions since February 1989, indicating the institution bought, Deposits, and branches still open (Source: NCNB Texas) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS NATIONAL BANK (SOUTHLAKE, TEXAS) (91%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (82%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NCNB TEXAS NATIONAL BANK; RESOLUTION TRUST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



719 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: A.T.&T. Expects Profit Drop

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company announced yesterday that its second-quarter earnings were likely to be lower than last year's, and that the company might have difficulty meeting its own targets for earnings growth this year.
A.T.&T. stock, which is more widely held than that of any other American company, dropped $2.125 a share, to close at $39.125, after trading as low as $37.625. Some 11.5 million shares changed hands in composite New York Stock Exchange trading, nearly six times the volume of the second most-active stock.
The New York-based telecommunications giant said its earnings for the quarter that ends Saturday would be less than the $699 million, or 65 cents a share, it reported in last year's second quarter. 
The announcement yesterday was the first time since A.T.&T. divested itself of its local telephone operations in 1984 that the company had issued a statement about its earnings before the end of a quarter. Morris Tanenbaum, the chief financial officer and a vice chairman of A.T.&T., said the company felt obliged to make an announcement because its own profit forecasts were considerably lower than the estimates of Wall Street analysts.
''We hope we don't have to do this again in the future,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 
Sale of Equipment Lags
A.T.&T. attributed the expected fall in second-quarter earnings to lagging sales of computer and telephone equipment and to the high cost of the company's entry into the credit card market. A sluggish economy and, to a lesser extent, conditions in the telephone equipment market were responsible for weak equipment sales, Mr. Tanenbaum said.
Mr. Tanenbaum said A.T.&T.'s earnings this year should exceed last year's $2.7 billion, which came on sales of $36.1 billion. But problems in this quarter will make it difficult, he said, for A.T.&T. to meet its target this year of 10 to 12 percent annual earnings growth.
''I don't think it's impossible, but it's going to be difficult. I wouldn't want anybody to count on it,'' Mr. Tanenbaum said.
Analysts had expected an increase this quarter greater than the 65 cents a share A.T.&T. earned in the second quarter last year, but they quickly cut their earnings estimates after the announcement. Jack B. Grubman, a telecommunications analyst at Paine Webber, changed his recommendation on the stock from a ''buy'' to a ''hold'' and reduced his second-quarter profits estimate to 58 cents, from 72 cents; he also cut his estimate of 1990 profits to $2.65 a share, from $2.90.
The company's troubles with equipment sales ''were even worse than I thought,'' Mr. Grubman said. A.T.&T.'s credit card introduction may cost as much as $200 million this year, he added, with most of the expense coming in the second quarter.
Equipment sales accounted for two-fifths of A.T.&T.'s $36 billion revenue last year. Demand has been strong for consumer products, which include answering machines and telephone handsets, but has fallen for equipment typically sold to businesses and to local telephone companies, Mr. Tanenbaum said. A.T.&T. sells electronic switchboards and multiple-line telephones to businesses and sells telephone network switching and transmission equipment to telephone companies.
Sales and profits from A.T.&T.'s long-distance services have not suffered in this quarter, said Richard A. Gray, a company spokesman. Prices rose yesterday for the stocks of A.T.&T.'s two biggest long-distance rivals, the MCI Communications Corporation and United Telecommunications, which owns 80 percent of US Sprint.
 
Heavy Competition
Demand has been weak and competition fierce for large, expensive telecommunications equipment, said Richard M. Wolf, a consultant in Ridgewood, N.J. The seven regional Bell operating companies created by the breakup of A.T.&T. in 1984 are cutting back, he said, after bolstering their investment programs during the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year, when the economy did not slow as much as most had predicted.
Foreign manufacturers are moving into the American equipment market and putting pressure on profit margins, said Frank J. Governali, a telecommunications analyst at First Boston. ''It's hard to find a shred of positive news in the industry,'' he said.
According to the Gartner Group Inc., a large telecommunications consulting firm based in Stamford, Conn., A.T.&T.'s share of the $27.5 billion telephone equipment industry has been slowly falling, to 40 percent in the first quarter of this year.
Demand for the Universal credit card, which A.T.&T. introduced on March 26, has been twice as strong as expected but has resulted in high processing costs, the company said. A.T.&T. announced last week that customers had opened a million accounts for the card, which serves as both a telephone card and a credit card for general purchases.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Daily close of A.T.&T. shares nthe New York Stock exchange, Jan.-June, 27, 1990 (Source: Datastream) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); A T&T (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T)

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; COMPANY REPORTS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MORRIS TANENBAUM (74%); 



720 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Japan Talks Go On

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, June 28

 BODY:
American and Japanese officials entered an unexpected fourth day of negotiations today as they sought ways to remove trade barriers between the two nations.
A United States Government official said the talks resumed after Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu phoned President Bush in an effort to break a deadlock among negotiators on the issue of increasing Japan's public-works spending over the next decade. 
Foreign Ministry officials said they could not confirm press reports that Japanese and American officials had agreed to public-works spending of 430 trillion yen, or about $2.77 trillion at current exchange rates.
The American official declined to say what disputes remained to be settled, although negotiators said a final agreement on the joint report was expected to be reached today.
A spokesman for the Japanese Foreign Ministry said Prime Minister Kaifu was scheduled to hold a press conference later today.
Both sides were under pressure to bring the talks to a close ahead of the two-day economic summit meeting of seven industrialized countries, which begins July 9 in Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE FOREIGN MINISTRY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PUBLIC WORKS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (87%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



721 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Less Euphoria On East Germany

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
Christian Picot, the chief of equities trading at Banque Paribas in New York, spent several days last week visiting factories in East Berlin and East Germany, talking to workers and managers. ''You have to be there to see what is going to happen,'' he said. His conclusion: not much for now.
It is just days before the eagerly awaited July 1 economic unification of East and West Germany, the first step to political unification. But Mr. Picot and other analysts have shed the German euphoria that sent the Frankfurt stock market to a record high in March of 1,976.43 on the DAX 30-stock index, up 35 percent since the Berlin Wall began to crumble on Nov. 9. 
The main activity next week is likely to be at the 10,000 or so centers in East Germany for the exchange of the East's marks for the West's.
The spending spree that many economists worried about, with East Germans cleaning out the boutiques and department stores on the Kurfuerstendamm in West Berlin, seems less likely now. East Germans are now expected, Mr. Picot said, to keep their marks as a hedge against the unemployment that seems likely for hundreds of thousands of workers as East Germany switches from a planned to an open economy.
In the stock market, more negative than positive surprises are expected as it becomes clearer that the returns from East Germany - and the rest of Eastern Europe - will take years to materialize. And because stock prices have already risen enough to account for this future gain, the near-term outlook is for volatility rather than a rise.
''When it comes to the reality of this unification, all the hype is unfounded,'' Mr. Picot said. ''For the capital markets nothing will happen.''
Traders in the Frankfurt stock market, however, have not agreed with this view for the last two weeks. The DAX index has risen in eight of the last nine days, bringing it back above the important 1,900 level yesterday, to 1,901.46. This rally came after the market, worried about the cost to West Germany of economic union and the expectation of higher interest rates, fell amost 10 percent from the high reached in March.
But the analysts who see problems in Germany dismiss this rally as a normal rebound from a sharp correction, not the beginning of a new surge.
David C. Roche, the European strategist for Morgan Stanley & Company in London, is now pessimistic about Germany and much of the rest of Europe. Morgan Stanley has already recommended a reduction of investment in West Germany.
One main reason for Mr. Roche's view is that he thinks the Soviet Union and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev are in trouble and that the orderly transformation that Mr. Gorbachev began will come to a halt. Such a development would have a depressing effect on many European markets, including West Germany's.
In addition, Mr. Roche said the perceptions of equity strategists are changing. First, like Morgan Stanley, they saw the growth and quick returns from Eastern Europe. Now there is growing acceptance that these returns will be delayed.
And with some bankruptcies of East German and other companies, the perception could change to ''it won't happen at all.'' That is when Mr. Roche plans to buy again.
The market has also lost some of its attraction because of the sharp rise in stock prices, which has meant that stocks have gone from selling at 10 times earnings to 18 times earnings, making them expensive.
The decision to exchange the East German mark one to one for the West's mark has also dampened some enthusiasm. After the wall fell, East Germany was thought to be a new source of inexpensive labor. But with the higher costs set by the one-to-one exchange, this labor may not be so attractive now and companies could return their attention to places like Portugal and Turkey.
''It just put things in a different light,'' said Madhav Dhar, a global strategist in New York for Morgan Stanley.
Volkswagen A.G. is an example of what the East German euphoria has done for some stocks. And it could become an example of what happens when reality sets in.
The recent rally in Frankfurt has sent Volkswagen, which is set to build the East German cars of the future, to its high for the year of 631 marks after it fell sharply in the spring on the expectation of losses in Brazil.
''People are playing Volkswagen again,'' said Stephen Reitman, an automobile analyst for UBS in London. But he said buyers have ''yet to really look at the hard facts, like what is the cost of labor; for returns, we are really talking about the second half of the decade.''
Once this view sinks in, he said, he expects Volkswagen to fall again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (80%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (80%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REUNIFICATION OF GERMANY; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TRENDS (75%); BONDS (73%); RETAILERS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN CHRISTIAN PICOT (78%); DAVID C ROCHE (70%); 



722 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Edges Mostly Higher; Gold Firms in Thin Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar edged higher against most major currencies in quiet trading yesterday as the markets ignored a report that showed the economy may be strengthening, traders said.
Currency traders said that there was little activity in the market, and that the dollar moved in a tight range.
The market had little reaction to the Commerce Department's report that its index of leading indicators, intended to forecast economic activity six to nine months ahead, rose eight-tenths of 1 percent in May. 
News of increasing economic activity normally is good for the dollar, but ''a market that's bearish on the dollar ignores good news,'' said John McCarthy, chief currency dealer for the Amsterdam Rotterdam Bank in New York.
 
Bush Sets the Tone
President Bush's statement Tuesday that he may accept a tax increase to reach a budget accord set the tone for the market, Mr. McCarthy said. An accord that cuts the Federal deficit could lead to lower interest rates, which tend to devalue the dollar relative to other currencies.
Against the West German currency yesterday, the dollar rose to 1.6637 marks, from 1.6618 late Tuesday in New York trading.
The dollar also strengthened against the pound in New York, where it traded at $1.7428, cheaper than $1.7430 late Tuesday.
Against the Japanese currency, however, the dollar weakened. In New York, one dollar bought 154.40 yen, down from 154.55 late Tuesday. Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar had closed at 154.35 yen, down from 155.23 Tuesday, and in London, the dollar also traded at 154.35.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Tuesday's late quotes, included: 1.4095 Swiss francs, up from 1.3975; 5.5910 French francs, up from 5.5770; 1,221.50 Italian lire, up from 1,217.50, and 1.1695 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1719.
In the precious metals market, gold prices firmed. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for June delivery closed at $351.40 an ounce, up $1. Later, the Republic National Bank in New York quoted an ounce of gold at $350.10, unchanged, as of 4 P.M.
Gold traded in a narrow range in Europe. Dealers said there was no investor interest and most participants were squaring up their positions for end-of-the-month accounting.
Gold closed in London at $350.05 an ounce, up from $349.50 late Tuesday, and in Zurich at $349.90, down from $350. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold closed at $350.55 bid, down from $353.25.
Silver bullion closed in London at $4.84 an ounce, up from $4.79. In New York trading, silver for June delivery closed at $4.794 on the Comex, down from $4.820 Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (78%); NETHERLANDS (71%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (79%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (71%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: AMSTERDAM-ROTTERDAM BANK NV (56%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (96%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (53%); 

PERSON: IAN J MCCARTHY (70%); IAN J MCCARTHY (70%); 



723 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Military Newspapers Flourish

BYLINE: By Kim Foltz

 BODY:
At a time when many newspapers are facing a slump in advertising, Army Times and its sister publications, Navy Times and Air Force Times, are doing well.
Advertisers like the publications, which are owned by The Times Journal Company, a newspaper publisher in Springfield, Va., because they are an easy way to reach an attractive market. The publications issued by the military, like Stars and Stripes and Army magazine, do not accept advertising.
''It's a classic case of niche marketing,'' said Charlie Rutman, a group media director at Backer Spielvogel Bates. ''These newspapers reach young consumers with a high amount of disposable income and who are not as easily reached by other media.'' 
The average household income for military personnel is $47,400, said Nat Kornfeld, the vice president for advertising for Army Times, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary in September. Members of the armed forces have a greater percentage of disposable income than do civilians because much of their living expenses, like food, housing and medical costs, are paid for by the military services.
The weekly newspapers provide a rundown of who is being transferred, who is getting promoted and sometimes even report blunders the military may have made.
''It is the bible of what is happening in the military,'' said Robert Sims, a former Assistant Secretary of Defense for public affairs who is now a senior vice president at the National Geographic Society. ''The publications give military personnel all the information they need to know about how the armed services affects their lives.''
The close ties that Army Times maintains with the military allows it to report on information important to military personnel several weeks before the armed forces makes the news official, said James Doyle, the editorial director for the Army Times publishing division of the Times Journal Company. ''Because of all of the red tape involved in anything the military does, it uses us as a quick conduit for information,'' he said.
The three publications are the only non-military publications reporting exclusively on the armed forces. Readership has been growing, and now stands at a combined paid circulation of 312,000, although circulation peaked during the Vietnam War years, at 400,000.
Analysts said the publications are particularly attractive to advertisers selling products like automobiles, liquor and insurance, which are popular with the military market.
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company has been using Army Times for five years to advertise special services like its long-distance calling card for miltary personnel.
''It's ideal for selling products geared to the active-duty military market because its reach is greater and it is more economically efficient than using regular consumer publications,'' said Deanna Kenny, the military market manager for A.T.&T.
Since 1975, the number of advertising pages for the three papers has risen nearly 30 percent, to a total of 6,002 pages last year. In comparison, Business Week, which ranks No.1 in ad pages for consumer publications measured by the Publishers' Information Bureau, had 4,914 ad pages last year.
Advertising revenue has been increasing at an even faster clip: during the same period, revenues more than doubled to $24.4 million in 1989.
Analysts said advertisers were also attracted to Army Times because of its high credibility with readers.
Its tough reporting on the military makes it clear that it is not ''in the pocket of the Pentagon,'' said Mr. Rutman of Backer Spielvogel Bates. ''If readers find a publication credible, then they often find the advertising equally credible. That's important in developing brand loyalty.''
Army Times was the first to report a number of important stories concerning the military. It was the first to report, for example, that the Army had charged an American soldier with the murder of a Panamanian prisoner during the United States invasion of Panama, said Mr. Doyle of Army Times.
Of course, Army Times and the military have had disputes about stories. ''They have asked us not to run stories, but even when the military has threatened to take the papers off the newsstands we haven't bowed to the pressure,'' said Henry Belber, the president of The Times Journal. ''If we didn't fight for our readers rights, we'd lose our legitimacy.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Army Times has been described as ''the bible of what is happening in the military.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY TIMES PUBLISHING CO (58%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (54%); AT&T INC (51%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (54%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES JOURNAL CO; NAVY TIMES (NEWSPAPER); AIR FORCE TIMES (NEWSPAPER); ARMY TIMES (NEWSPAPER)

SUBJECT: AD MEDIA; MARKET SEGMENT; INCOME; MILITARY PERSONNEL ARMED FORCES (94%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PAID CIRCULATION (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); YOUTH MARKET (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: FOLTZ, KIM



724 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
President Hussein of Iraq has warned Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates that they must curb their excess oil production. The move is a clear challenge to Saudi leadership in OPEC. [Page D1.] 
Bush announced an expansion of Latin American debt relief and proposed the creation of a free-trade zone for the hemisphere. The President is under pressure from Latin countries that fear that Eastern Europe is draining Western aid programs. [D1.]
Deutsche Bank announced that it had completed a joint venture agreement with a state-owned East German bank. [A8.]
 
 
 
Companies
A.T.&T. said its second-quarter earnings were likely to be lower than last year's, sending its stock $2.125, to $39.125. [D1.]
Garfinckel's started its ''going out of business'' sale. For decades it was the department store of choice for wealthy shoppers in the nation's capital. [D1.]
Security Pacific won the bidding for Gibraltar Savings, in one of the largest U.S. sales yet of an insolvent institution. [D2.]
Peter Cohen has been granted a severance package by Shearson and American Express. [D4.]
Oil companies criticized an Administration plan to repurchase their lease rights. [D7.]
A House panel approved a bill that would mildly reregulate the cable TV industry. [D19.] The franchises of two Manhattan cable companies were renewed, with rate rises sure to follow. [A1.]
The Supreme Court upheld two affirmative-action programs aimed at raising minority ownership of broadcast licenses. [A1.]
For Hoboken, the closing of a Maxwell House plant means the loss of its largest industrial employer. [B1.]
The publishing industry is stunned. Dell has bought two books by Ken Follett for $12.3 million. [C13.]
Large insurers are set to announce that they are developing a computer system to enable independent agents to communicate with the home offices of several insurers at once. [D4.]
 
 
 
The Economy
The Government's economic forecasting index climbed 0.8 percent in May, continuing its bumpy pattern of recent months and confirming, analysts said, expectations that the economy will eke out gains in coming months and avoid a recession. [D1.]
Federal regulators set up a task force to investigate whether ''junk bonds'' sold by Drexel and Michael Milken led to huge losses at dozens of collapsed savings and loans. [D16.]
Bush's tax proposal is a gamble that he can devise a deficit-cutting plan to revive the U.S. economy. Economic Analysis. [A20.]
 
 
 
Markets
Despite a selloff in A.T.&T., stocks advanced as investors apparently reasoned that Bush's endorsement of a tax increase might help stock prices. The Dow gained 19.80, to 2,862.13. [D14.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose and interest rates fell slightly in sluggish trading. [D16.]
The dollar edged higher against most major currencies in quiet trading. [D17.]
Sugar futures prices bounced sharply higher after the Agriculture Department predicted that world sugar consumption would outstrip production for the sixth straight year. [D17.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
International Lease Finance was clearly in transition even before it sat down with investment bankers. Talking Deals. [D2.]
The returns from East Germany will take years to materialize, and stocks in Frankfurt reflect that. Market Place. [D14.]
As many newspapers face a slump in advertising, Army Times and its sister publications, Navy Times and Air Force Times, are doing well. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); BONDS (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INSURANCE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); LEGISLATION (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); TAX INCREASES (63%); PUBLISHING (63%); JOINT VENTURES (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); SEVERANCE PAY (52%); APPEALS (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); MICHAEL MILKEN (50%); 



725 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Designs for Europe;
Germany in NATO? Not Important

BYLINE: By Ronald Steel; Ronald Steel teaches international relations at the University of Southern California.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
A unified Germany will probably be in NATO -but will the United States? The question may seem odd since the Atlantic alliance is, after all, our property. We created it, pay for most of it, and provide the nuclear umbrella that makes it credible. NATO without the U.S. is like the Holy Roman Empire without the Romans. But that's the point.
That entity - neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire - thrived long after the Romans pulled up their tents and returned to their seven hills. 
The same could well be true of our 50-year encampment in Western Europe.
We put NATO together to protect our European allies from the Russians, but also for some other reasons: to reassure them that we would keep watch over the Germans, and to prevent Europeans from once again dragging us into a war.
One of the purposes of NATO, in other words, was to keep Europe in its place, where its endemic rivalries would be muted and its ability to harm itself and others limited. We did this not only by paying the bills, but also through an integrated command structure that put the West European armies (except that of obstreperous France) under U.S. command.
This worked fine for more than four decades, as the Europeans recovered from their war and focused their energies on getting rich. They kibbitzed from the sidelines as the U.S. emmeshed itself in two land wars in Asia, and they let Washington and Moscow jockey for influence in the third world and argue about missiles at various talks from which they were excluded.
The trans-Atlantic arrangement started wobbling a few years ago, however, when U.S. taxpayers began wondering why half the Pentagon's budget went for subsidizing the defense of rich Europeans. And now it is seriously unraveling as the Soviet Union day by day transforms itself from a menacing ogre to one of the world's neediest cases.
NATO planners used to lie awake nights fearing the Soviet Union might march west; today their greatest fear is that it may collapse. Even if it doesn't, the revolution in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union has posed an identity crisis for NATO.
The East Europeans want to join it, Mikhail Gorbachev wants it to disappear into an all-European security system stretching, as General de Gaulle used to say, ''from the Atlantic to the Urals.'' The West Europeans want to keep it as an insurance policy, though whether against the Russians or the Germans they coyly refuse to say.
The Germans see no harm in NATO, particularly since they are likely to dominate it anyway. And the Americans persist in the assumption that somehow everything will continue more or less as before.
Here Washington may be in for a surprise. It was because of the cold war and Europe's military dependency that the U.S. has played such a powerful role in Europe. NATO is both the symbol and the instrument of that dependency. In a post-cold-war Europe NATO will be less important to Europeans. For that reason it will also mean less to Americans.
With the threat of Soviet invasion virtually vanished, with U.S. forces eventually cut by two-thirds or more, with economic rather than military power calling the tune, an evolving Europe will be far less responsive to U.S. wishes. Even Europe's reliance on U.S. nuclear protection will loosen. To contain a weakened Russia, the French and British nuclear forces, with a German voice on the board of directors, may be deterrent enough.
The European Community, already a bigger and as rich a market as the U.S., will do its own negotiating with Moscow rather than letting President Bush do the talking. A unified Germany, as the powerhouse of the community and the paymaster for Eastern Europe, will take the lead in forging a post-cold-war European diplomacy, one responsible to European rather than Atlantic concerns.
What place will there be for the U.S. in a Europe whose armed forces it can no longer control, whose economy is bigger than its own and whose citizens no longer feel dependent on an American protector - a Europe that is reaching out to embrace, even swallow, the Soviet Union in its economic net? Clearly something far less important than it has been.
U.S. officials are not only understandably sentimental about NATO, but see it as the best hope for maintaining American influence in Europe. They should use the card for what it's worth, but not exaggerate its importance. NATO will probably endure in some form, though likely with a new name, less centralized control and a wider geographical scope.
An American connection is useful to the Europeans, just in case the Russians, or even the Germans, become difficult again. But it will be a traditional mutual security pact rather than the integrated military alliance - with U.S. command of Europe's armed forces - it has been. A European-Atlantic pact might even extend far to the east and include whatever remains of the Soviet Union once it has gone through its current ethnic convulsions.
Thus, the current argument over whether a unified Germany should be allowed to join NATO is less important than it seems. In or out of NATO, Germany will be the major actor in tomorrow's Europe. The Europe of two superpower blocs will give way to a European entity, perhaps unified, perhaps not, in which Brussels or Berlin will carry more weight than Washington.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DE BAZAR (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; SURVEYS AND SERIES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ARMIES (75%); BUDGETS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); 

PERSON: STEEL, RONALD



726 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: 3 Little Words: How Bush Dropped His Tax Pledge

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
When President Bush announced this week that ''tax revenue increases'' were essential to reduce the budget deficit, White House aides were hoping that the wording was vague enough for them to argue that Mr. Bush had not explicitly abandoned his campaign pledge of ''no new taxes.''
But the Democrats quickly prevailed in the debate over how Mr. Bush's purposely vague reference to taxes should be interpreted. With the White House silent and refusing to elaborate, Republican members of Congress joined Democrats in ending the discussion: with his three words, Mr. Bush had broken the central promise of his 1988 campaign.
A reconstruction based on interviews with Administration officials, lawmakers and Congressional aides, including some who witnessed a two-hour meeting on Tuesday that led to one of the most momentous political decisions of the Bush Presidency, established this as one of several miscalculations by White House officials.
Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House Republican whip, said the White House had underestimated ''by orders of magnitude'' how dramatic the reaction to Mr. Bush's announcement would be. ''The Democrats,'' he said, ''understood far better than the White House what the symbolic meaning of the word 'tax' is in this town.'' 
Today the President's close aides, closeted in the White House under a code of silence, were increasingly worried by the reaction to the tax statement and were debating how to proceed.
 
A Breakfast Breakthrough
The process by which Mr. Bush made his decision began last week on Capitol Hill, according to Congressional officials and those Bush associates who were willing to ignore the ban on interviews. That ban was being enforced by John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, who was described by one Senator as ''the obstacle'' that had to be overcome in persuading the President to issue the tax statement.
The process culminated in a two-hour breakfast meeting on Tuesday morning at the White House, where House Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington was designated by the Democrats to warn Mr. Bush that they would pull out of the budget talks unless the President made some gesture to help them avoid the political blame for any tax increase that might come out of the talks.
Witnesses to the meeting said Mr. Bush listened to an hour of debate before he agreed to draft a statement that might be interpreted by some people as putting him on record as accepting the idea of tax increases to help cut the budget deficit.
Based on a format suggested by Mr. Foley, Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director, wrote out a draft statement in his own hand.
Mr. Darman included the phrase ''tax revenue increases'' as one that would give the Democrats the political cover they needed, while still leaving Mr. Bush enough ''wiggle room.'' Officials said the White House hoped to argue that ''new tax revenues'' might come from increased money from existing taxes in a growing economy, rather than from a tax increase.
 
The 'T-word' in Disguise
Discussing how the phrase was chosen, a White House official said, ''The idea was that it had to have the 'T-word' in it, but it also had to be general enough that the actual decision on taxes would be left up to the budget negotiators.''
The Democrats discussed the phrase and decided that its meaning was clear enough for them.
Democrats credited Mr. Foley with making a stern and protracted presentation to the President at the breakfast meeting, a presentation they felt was a key element in swaying Mr. Bush.
As the meeting closed, the two sides agreed that each would hold one news conference. The three-paragraph document was posted in the White House press room and the public relations struggle was on, with the White House losing the semantic argument almost as soon as it began.
Many of those interviewed today said the events that led to Mr. Bush's statement began on June 19 when, as the budget negotiations dragged on, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney presented a new plan for cutting the size of the military.
Democrats had been expecting the cuts to reduce the overall size of the budget substantially. But Representative Leon E. Panetta of California, who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, said Mr. Cheney's presentation went ''nowhere.''
Early on June 20, Congress and the White House came up with new forecasts that put the budget deficit for the fiscal year 1991 at $160 billion, requiring $100 billion in cuts to reach the level dictated by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget-balancing law.
That afternoon Mr. Darman presented the Administration's proposed budget cuts of $51 billion, most of it from domestic programs. The Democratic response was angry and the Administration began a frantic four days of damage control.
The next morning, Mr. Darman and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady met with Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and with Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, who is chairman of the Senater Finance Committee, in the first of a series of exploratory meetings.
 
A Pivotal Broker's Role
On Thursday afternoon Mr. Darman and Mr. Brady met again with Senator Bentsen, who played a pivotal broker's role in the discussions. The Senator said he told them ''that the talks were going to come apart, that the Democrats were not going to come up with taxes and that the President had to make a high-profile move.''
At this point the Administration was seeking assurances that if Mr. Bush agreed to do that the Democrats would not reject it, officials said.
After his meeting with the White House officials, Mr. Bentsen met with George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Senate majority leader. Mr. Bentsen told Mr. Mitchell that he thought the Administration would work out a ''good-faith, high-profile move from the President,'' according to a Senate official.
Mr. Brady and Mr. Darman also met on Thursday with two other Democratic Senators, Jim Sasser of Tennessee, the Budget Committee chairman, and Wyche Fowler Jr. of Georgia, Senator Mitchell's delegate at the budget talks.
Congressional aides and lawmakers said Mr. Darman was told the Democrats could not accept the Administration's new plan as the starting point of negotiations. Still trying to salvage the talks, Mr. Darman proposed what one Senate aide called ''the immaculate conception'' plan, arguing that everyone should keep talking and somehow taxes would spring from the process.
''I sensed after our conversation Thursday afternoon that they seemed to be under substantial stress or pressure,'' Senator Sasser recalled. ''Brady and Darman were leading the charge to try to do something. On the other side I think you've got Sununu, who probably was more concerned about the political side of it.''
The Democrats turned up the pressure a notch. On Friday, after conferring with Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Foley told the White House he was canceling a budget meeting that had been scheduled for Monday, the first such cancellation since the talks began in May.
On Saturday morning, Mr. Bentsen had breakfast with Mr. Brady and left feeling that the deal was all but sealed if the proper language could be worked out, Congressional officials said.
On Monday, the President invited the Congressional leadership to the White House for the Tuesday morning meeting, saying he wanted to break the logjam in the negotiations.
 
'That Sounds All Right'
At 1:30 P.M. on Monday, Mr. Bush met with Republican Congressional leaders - most of whom, with the exception of Mr. Gingrich and Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a sponsor of the budget-balancing law, were already urging Mr. Bush to accept a tax increase to bring the deficit under control.
At 7:30 A.M. on Tuesday, Mr. Bush met with the bipartisan delegation in his private residence. One participant said that Mr. Foley raised the subject of a statement by the President on taxes and that after a long discussion on the document's language, Mr. Bush said, ''That sounds all right to me.''
A White House official said today that the statement did not substantially change the President's position on raising taxes. ''We made that decision back when we went into the negotiations and said everything was on the table,'' the official said.
But the White House realized that the new statement went farther than before because it put Mr. Bush on record as saying that he felt a tax increase would be needed, not just that he would discuss the idea.
White House officials calculated that they could keep Mr. Bush out of sight and avoid having him make any comment in person. They also planned to present the statement differently to different audiences: For the Democrats, it was to be a significant, new statement of policy. For Republicans, it would be described as nothing new.
Republican officials met to consider their public relations strategy and decided to paint the President's statement as an act of political courage. They said the eventual budget agreement would contain so many significant measures, like cuts in domestic spending and a reduction in the capital gains tax, that no one would fault Mr. Bush for a tax increase.
At the same time, the White House decided to keep quiet. All interviews were refused. Today, Mr. Darman left this message with his secretary: ''Mr. Darman is not talking to any press right now.''
 
A Public Relations Blunder
That left the Democrats, Republicans outside the leadership circle and the news media doing all the interpretation. As early as Tuesday afternoon, some Bush advisers were concerned that the White House had botched the public relations campaign.
''Don't they think they need to explain it?'' asked one White House adviser. ''They take a piece of paper and tack it up on the press office wall. Bush wants to raise taxes but he doesn't want to have anybody see him visibly move his lips. They want to say, 'See, we put it in writing,' but they don't want to say it.''
Today some White House advisers were worrying that Mr. Bush's response on the tax issue seemed limp. They argued that before he loses his credibility, he should tell the public why he was willing to break his campaign promise. But others said the President should simply wait for the budget negotiations to produce a compromise for which neither side can blame the other.
Still, one aide said the biggest worry in the White House now is how Mr. Bush will address ''the charge that he's a fraud - that there was misrepresentation in what he did.''
The aide added, ''What we need to do is answer that.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: At White House talks on a possible tax increase were from left, Richard G. Darman, budget director; John H. Sununu, White House chief of staff; and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley. (Associated Press; The New York Times) (pg. A1); President Bush, whose aides were locked in debate yesterday over how to handle the backlash generated by his remarks about tax revenue increases. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1988; FEDERAL TAXES (US); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EYEWITNESSES (74%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 



727 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Senator Urges Military Resources Be Turned to Environmental Battle

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
Calling environmental destruction ''a growing national security threat,'' Senator Sam Nunn, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today proposed shifting substantial Defense Department and intelligence resources to address ecological problems.
Mr. Nunn, a Georgia Democrat, was joined on the Senate floor by fellow Democrats Al Gore of Tennessee, Tim Wirth of Colorado, Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and Jim Exon of Nebraska, all members of the Armed Services Committee, in calling for the creation of a Strategic Environmental Research Program.
An influential Democratic leader who has played no significant role on environmental issues, Mr. Nunn made it plain that he had two goals: In an age of diminishing tensions with the Soviet Union, he wants to retain the extensive national security research apparatus at the Pentagon, the Energy Department and Central Intelligence Agency, and at the same time turn much of its focus to what he described as a rising security threat posed by degradation of the environment.
The program outlined by Mr. Nunn would enlist the research talent available to the military and intelligence establishment, as well as its computers, planes, ships, satellites and other resources, to address environmental threats. 
Some new Federal spending would be required, including the costs of a proposed new Defense Environmental Research Council. No detailed financial estimates are available, but in general, planners foresee the diverting resources worth billions of dollars.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Nunn acknowledged that one purpose of his proposal was to retain research and technological capacity for the military establishment at a time when military budgets will be shrinking. ''But the major purpose is environmental,'' he said.
In his speech, the Senator said that global environmental problems were worsening and leading to tensions that could pose military problems, especially in the third world.
''The end of the cold war has greatly reduced the risk of superpower confrontation,'' Mr. Nunn said, but he added that pressures on the environment could increase the danger of ethnic or regional conflicts.
 
The Main Problems
Among the problems listed by Mr. Nunn were population pressures on food and water supplies, the depletion of the ozone layer in the atmosphere, large-scale destruction of forests and global warming linked to air pollution.
Many traditional security problems remain, Mr. Nunn said, citing the proliferation of nuclear weapons, chemical weapons and missles in the third world; ''radical Moslem fundamentalism;'' global terrorism, and the drug trade. But he said he now believes ''that there is also a new and different threat to our national security emerging: the destruction of our environment.''
''I believe that America must lead the way in marshaling a global response to the problems of environmental degradation, and the defense establishment should play an important role in this effort,'' Mr. Nunn said.
Like Senator Nunn, who is a leading Congressional expert on military affairs, the top commanders at the Pentagon from Defense Secretary Dick Cheney down have been concerned about how they would keep the military establishment intact in a time of decreasing world tension.
A Defense Department spokesman, Glenn Flood, said of the plan today: ''On the surface it sounds good. We just have to see what the specifics are before we can embrace everything he has proposed.''
 
Unlocking Secret Data
Among other things, Mr. Nunn's plan would open to nonmilitary scientists and researchers some data gathered by the armed services and intelligence agencies that is now kept secret. An example would be the thickness of polar ice as measured by the Navy's nuclear submarines.
Military aircraft, ships, submarines and satellites could collect information on air and water quality and on global climate, Mr. Nunn said. The powerful computers used by the Defense and Energy Departments could be made available to civilian researchers. The two departments could devote research money and equipment now used for military programs to developing energy technology for civilian use, including new nuclear reactor designs, energy storage techniques and superconducting materials.
Senator Nunn suggested that many resources could be used for military and environmental purposes at once. Aircraft and ships on military exercises, for example, could also collect environmental data.
Mr. Nunn also stressed that the technology for cleaning up the environment would become an increasingly important economic factor in world trade. ''I would like to see American technology leading the world,'' he said. Although a growing number of scholars and Government officials have warned that environmental deterioration is a major threat to national security, this would be the first time the threat would be addressed in the nation's strategic planning. Senator Gore, who has long called for a shift in strategic thinking, said in an interview today that the most significant thing about the proposal is ''this philosophic point that the environment is recognized as a national security issue.''
Senator John W. Warner, the ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee, said he thought Mr. Nunn's proposal was ''worth serious consideration.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Sam Nunn, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, who proposed using military resources to help with environmental problems. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (73%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: EST AS (69%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); SENATE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LAND DEGRADATION (88%); TERRORISM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEFORESTATION (73%); OZONE DEPLETION (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); FUNDAMENTALISM (60%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP; NUNN, SAM (SEN) AL GORE (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); 



728 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND JAPAN SET ACCORD TO RECTIFY TRADE IMBALANCES

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 28

 BODY:
After a year of wide-ranging critiques of each other's economies, the United States and Japan reached an unusual agreement today intended to trim America's spending excesses and to transform the Japanese economy, making it easier for foreigners to do business here.
The trade pact, if faithfully enforced, would change Japan from a nation that fiercely favors producers into one that encourages shoppers and gives new powers to shareholders.
The agreement, aimed at dealing with the underlying causes of the huge United States trade deficit with Japan, was reached tonight after a four-day marathon session that ultimately required the personal intervention of President Bush and Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu. The two leaders spoke by telephone, with the aid of interpreters, during the late stages of the negotiations, formally known as the Structural Impediments Initiative, American officials said. They did not disclose the content of the discussion. 
 
Earlier Stage in April
The accord followed an interim agreement reached in early April, when the two countries first acknowledged that both economies needed fundamental changes if Japan's trade surplus were to be reduced.
But the interim pact lacked details. The current accord, prepared in time for Mr. Kaifu's trip to the United States next week for the Houston economic meeting and more bilateral talks with President Bush, was hard-fought because it establishes a specific action plan.
Specifically, Japan pledged to increase its public works spending over the next decade by 63 percent, reduce the time it takes to issue patents to 24 months from more than 37, reduce the protection afforded small shops and begin vigorous criminal enforcement against bid-rigging, price-fixing and other anticompetitive actions that have long been tolerated by Japanese authorities. All these measures are intended to make Japan more open to competitive foreign goods. $50 Billion Surplus The unresolved question is how much and how quickly the effort will reduce Japan's $50 billion annual trade surplus with the United States. Congress has made clear that if the effort does not appear to work, pressure for retaliation against Japan - what President Bush and Mr. Kaifu were trying to sidestep - will probably grow. [In Washington, President Bush welcomed the agreement and said it should benefit both nations. But some in Congress were cautious about its enforcement. Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, who heads the Senate Finance Committee, said it can be measured only by results.] The Japanese decision to increase public works spending was one of the most politically difficult elements in the agreement. The powerful Finance Ministry resisted the big increase, fearing that more public spending could add to inflation. Japan agreed to increase its public works spending program over the next 10 years to 430 trillion yen, about $2.8 trillion at current exchange rates, as part of a broader push to increase Japan's demand for imported goods. The projected level is 63 percent more than in the preceding decade.
In past negotiations with Japan, American and other foreign representatives have sought access for specific industries, like agricultural products, computer chips or satellites.
But the talks over the past year represent a new approach - an attempt to change some of the fundamental charactistics of the American and Japanese economies that have allowed the trade problems to develop.
At times the talks have ventured into areas so rooted in national culture - like Japanese proposals to limit the number of credit cards American consumers can hold or American proposals to destroy the links that bind families of companies here - that they seemed sure to fail.
In return for Japanese concessions, the United States pledged not only to move toward eliminating the Federal budget deficit, but also to reform antitrust laws to allow companies to enter joint production ventures, and provide more education programs for an American work force.
The Bush Administration also pledged to keep the United States open to direct investment from abroad and to relax somewhat the ban on exports of California heavy crude oil. Japan has argued that if it could buy the crude, much of the trade deficit would disappear.
The American commitments included increased spending for scientific and commericial research . In the 1991 fiscal year, beginning October 1990, the Administration said it would increase Federal spending on civilian research by 12 percent, a 4 percent rise for the military, 22 percent for nonmilitary space research and 14 percent for the National Science Foundation.
 
Much Uncertainty
Because of the unusual nature of the trade agreement, there is considerable uncertainty about how far-reach its impact would be.
''We have never attempted anything like this before,'' said S. Linn Williams, the deputy United States trade representative. ''These are two sovereign countries, big countries, that are discussing issues that until now were considered no one's business but their own.''
Japan's press is doubtful about whether America is taking its own commitments seriously.
The Mainichi Shimbun, one of the country's largest newspapers, this morning seemed to reflect a widely held view that it is so politically unpopular in the United States to curb consumers that the country ''won't give a firm promise on the restraint of its own consumption.'' Such a restraint, the paper said, is ''an impossible thing anyway.''
There are equal reasons to doubt how quickly Japan will change. But one of the odd aspects of the current negotiations is that the American side often found itself cheered on by traditionally passive Japanese consumers, who have begun to question why they pay such high prices and live in such cramped quarters.
For example, the agreement says that Japan will move to eliminate zoning limits and get rid of taxes that encourage land owners to cultivate small farms in the middle of crowded cities, including Tokyo. It also calls for converting unused Government-owned land ''to productive use by the end of fiscal year 1991.''
 
Shareholders' Rights
Japan also agreed to review its commercial code to enhance shareholders' rights and increase public disclosure requirements for corporations. It also agreed to abolish the Government's broad authority to block foreign direct investment in Japan and to relax regulations that require foreign companies to give advance notice of plans to invest in Japan or import technology.
The agreement also commits Japan to a liberalization of a law here that, to the frustration of Japanese and American retail chains, allows small shopkeepers to delay the opening of department stores for more than 10 years. That period will be reduced first to 18 months and then to one year, as part of an effort to open more outlets likely to carry foreign and discount goods.
Japan also committed itself to greatly strengthening its Fair Trade Commission, and allowing the commission for the first time to aid consumers who sue businesses for unfair business practices. ''We want to see the Government take a more active role as a friend of plantiffs,'' Mr. Williams said.
Under the agreement, the Japanese Government will also issue a policy statement soon leading to new measures against ''keiretsu,'' companies that are tightly bound together and often supply each other while sqeezing out opportunities for outsiders. In some cases, companies will be restricted from holding too many of each other's shares, but no timetable was set.
 
Late Sticking Point
In the lastest round of negotiations, one main sticking point was how much Japan was willing to spend on its own public works chiefly houses, airports, ports, parks and sewers.
Though the connection sometimes seems remote, American negotiators have argued that such investments will inevitably close the Japan's current account imbalances. The projects will reduce the gap between Japan's huge domestic savings rate - three times higher than in the United States - and the amount it invests. Moreover, the theory goes, Japanese in bigger houses, driving on wider roads, will become greater consumers, including of foreign goods.
Initially the United States insisted that Japan commit itself to spending a specific percentage of its gross national product on its infrastructure. But that was opposed by the Japanese bureaucracy, which feared it would lose a vital tool in controling the economy. In the end, Mr. Kaifu agreed to spend the $2.8 trillion, and an additional $100 billion through recently privatized companies like Nippon Telegraph and Telephone and Japan Railways, two of the country's largest industrial enterprises.
 
Pact Hailed in U.S.
WASHINGTON, June 28 (Special to The New York Times) - President Bush in a statement called the agreement particularly welcome, adding that it should benefit the economies of both nations. The White House statement said the trade accord was a two-way street, with the United States agreeing in general terms to pursue policies to raise the nation's savings rate and reduce the Federal budget deficit.
In a telephone interview, Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mossbacher said that while the Japanese negotiations were not the main reason for Mr. Bush's decision this week to accept new taxes, ''the timing was right.''
American lawmakers welcomed the trade agreement, but stressed that it would require careful monitoring to make sure it is enforced. ''I'm glad to see that the U.S. trade negotiators have reached a final agreement,'' said Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, who chairs the Senate Finance Committee. ''However, the worth of that agreement can only be measured by hard trade results. In that sense, the jury is still out.''
John B. Taylor, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, said: ''It is difficult to say when it will have an impact. This is a medium-term strategy we have in mind, but it could have a dramatic effect.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: S. Linn Williams, right, the deputy United States trade representative, and Charles Dallara, an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, briefed reporters in Tokyo last night after the final round of a four-day marathan session of the Structural Impediments INitiative talks. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CARTELS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); TRENDS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); PRICE FIXING (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



729 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
A pact to rectify trade imbalances was reached by the U.S. and Japan. The accord is intended to trim America's spending excesses and to transform the Japanese economy, making it easier for foreigners to do business. Page A1

 
American broadcasting operations abroad are facing reductions as the cold war era recedes and the Government budget shrinks, with the most painful cuts occuring at the United States Information Agency. A6

 
A debate over the role of religion in public education has broken out in Hungary, a predominantly Roman Catholic country. The issue threatens to set a troublesome test for a society in which ethnic and religious divisions are still open and raw. A4 
 
 
An East German manufacturer of printing presses is a leading example of how the country's industry is expected, after a shakeout, to grow and become more efficient as a result of economic unification. A4

 
NATO might pursue individual pacts in Eastern Europe A6

 
Lithuanians debating a freeze on independence A5

 
Leningrad journal: Party is facing eviction A4

 
Iran is unlikely to assist the U.S. in obtaining the freedom of any more American hostages in Lebanon, an Iranian official said, adding that ''the level of hostilities'' was rising. A3

 
Slow day at the spy shop in Teheran: Is it a sign A3

 
A war in Western Sahara may end. The U.N. Secretary General will ask representatives of Morocco and Saharan guerrillas to meet in Geneva next week and extend indefinitely a temporary cease-fire they accepted earlier this year. A2

 
Canada is agonizing over Quebec. In the decades that the country has wrestled to keep its English- and French-speaking populations within the confines of a single state, there has rarely been such gloomy clamor.
 A8

 
Israel turned down two compromises suggested by the U.S. that many Palestinians had acceped as a way of getting peace talks started. It was Israel's first official response to Secretary of State Baker's request for movement in negotiations. A3

 
Israeli held in massacre says he sought revenge for rape A2

 
National A10-16, B9

 
A comprehensive bill on oil spills is expected to pass Congress in July. House and Senate conferees resolved the major dispute that had blocked passage of the measure. A1

 
The destruction of the environment poses ''a growing national security threat,'' Senator Sam Nunn said. He proposed the shift of substantial military and intelligence resources to solving ecological problems. A1

 
White House aides miscalculated when they confidently predicted that they could win the battle of public opinion over whether President Bush had explicitly abandoned his 1988 campaign pledge, a reconstruction of a key meeting shows. A1

 
Washington Talk: Budget position is a plum for new Senator A12

 
The prosecution in the Barry trial displayed its key piece of evidence - a videotape of Mayor Barry making passes at a woman in a hotel room, arguing with her about whether to obtain and smoke crack and, finally, lighting a pipe himself. A10

 
Deputy to leave Justice position
 A12

 
Conflicting rulings on Arizona's death penalty law A12

 
Senate again votes to ban assault weapons for three years B9

 
The flaw in the Hubble Telescope might have been detected by top-secret military testing equipment that the space agency considered and rejected using, officials said. A1
 
Scientists assess the Hubble loss A16

 
The mirrors of Hubble A16

 
Fires raged in southern California. The fires - caused by heat, drought and, apparently, human malice -have devoured more than 400 homes. Damage is expected to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars. A1

 
Arson is suspected in Santa Barbara blaze A10

 
Nelson Mandela ventured to Florida, where his refusal to disavow Fidel Castro has earned him the enmity of many in Miami's politically powerful Cuban-American community. A14

 
Mandela mania: Inner-city children find a hero A14

 
Consumer group is naming punished medical professionals A16

 
A.M.A. endorses use of abortion pill in U.S. A16

 
Baton Rouge journal: A democracy stressing flamboyance A10

 
Regional B1-4

 
The health-care finance system in New York State would be revised under an agreement reached by legislative leaders. The plan would bail out distressed hospitals and provide substantial incentives for expanding the availability of primary care. B1

 
Property taxes would increase in New York City by $260 million under an agreement nearing completion by the Dinkins administration and the City Council. B1

 
Motive is the all-important mystery in each investigation by the New York City Police Department's bias unit. It operates continuously in the political limelight of a city where racial tensions dominate the news. A1

 
Brutality trial is testing New Jersey Police unity B2

 
At jogger trial, a rescuer tells of gang attack B3

 
Marcos jury is told to weigh whether she avoided truth B2

 
A jury cleared Karin Aparo of the most serious charge against her -that she was an accessory in the murder of her mother nearly three years ago in an affluent Hartford suburb. But a mistrial was declared on another charge. B1

 
A judge in the Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, Marie M. Lambert, is defending herself against claims that she abused her powers by awarding excessive fees to lawyers and by failing to disclose her friendships with lawyers in cases before her. B1

 
School board gets two new Hispanic members B3

 
Chancellor seizes drug programs B3

 
New chapter for Shoreham: New York files to take plant
 B3

 
Rinfret sees President Bush in Washington B3

 
Short census form will be included in New York papers B4

 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend

 
Discovering traces of the time when America was born C1

 
Architectural awards C11

 
Some theater grants said to be in jeopardy C15

 
Theater: On Stage C2

 
''Falsettoland'' C3

 
Film: At the Movies C6

 
Music: Gerry Mulligan group C13

 
Stars gather as events overlap C18

 
Bobby McFerrin and Chick Corea C18

 
Pearl Bailey and Wynton Marsalis C18

 
Dance: Mark Morris at Jacob's Pillow C3

 
Surprise City Ballet premiere C8

 
Art: Marsden Hartley's late works C15

 
Auctions C22

 
Restaurants C16

 
Word and Image: ''The Dark Romance of Dian Fossey'' C23

 
TV Weekend C24

 
Law Page B7

 
At the Bar
 
Friends of free speech now consider its limits
 
Sports

 
Baseball: Mets win 10th in row A19

 
Yankees rally A23

 
Basketball: Making of a deal A20

 
Column: Anderson on golf A19

 
Golf: Trevino leads Senior Open A19

 
Golf: Walk, don't ride A20

 
Horse Racing: Notebook A22

 
Soccer: Maradona gains support A22

 
Tennis: Chang breezes A19

 
Obituaries B8

 
Charles S. Jensen, a retired executive of the CIT Corporation
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A24

 
The contra war, 1981 - 1990
 
Plus on drilling, minus milling
 
Letters A24

 
William Safire: Beware the Condor A25

 
Anthony Lewis: Conscience and the Court A25

 
Garry Trudeau: Where's Waldheim? A25

 
Bill Honig: School vouchers: dangerous claptrap A25

 
William H. Luers: The cost of Soviet disintegration A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CANADA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (68%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (66%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (57%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); RELIGION (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); EVICTION (67%); PRINTING EQUIPMENT MFG (54%); OIL SPILLS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



730 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Slow Day at the Spy Shop in Teheran: Is It a Sign?

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, June 28

 BODY:
Business was only fair today at the spy shop.
It is usually brisk, the store clerk said. But today few customers had shown up by early afternoon, and they seemed less interested in spies than in religious works.
Although some call it the spy shop, or even the spy boutique, the formal name is the Center for the Publication of the U.S. Espionage Den's Documents. It is a most unusual book store, opened eight months ago at the edge of a walled compound on the well-traveled Ayatollah Taleghani Street. 
The compound is a base for the Revolutionary Guards, enforcers of Iran's Islamic fundamentalism, who also use the main building as a school for their children. Most outsiders probably remember the place better as the former United States Embassy, an early target of the 1979 Islamic revolution and birthplace of America's enduring hostage-taking anguish.
 
Shredded Papers Reassembled
On the store's shelves are collections of secret and confidential documents seized from the embassy and, in some instances, painstakingly pieced together after having been hastily shredded.
Their existence is hardly new, but now bound copies of them are on sale. For $5 - payment is in Iranian rials, but prices are marked in the old espionage den's currency - one can buy any of a dozen volumes called ''U.S. Interventions In Iran.''
There are also tracts on the Zionist conspiracy and South Africa, plus religious books and a few less-than-bloodracing volumes on contract law and Japanese postwar growth. But the name of the snappily tiled shop, nestled below a Revolutionary Guard observation tower, leaves no doubt about its mission to help maintain the anti-American tone that has been basic policy since the Shah's downfall 11 years ago.
The street running by the former embassy compound retains its tension. When two foreign journalists and their Iranian interpreter lingered too long today for the taste of one Revolutionary Guard, he held and questioned them at length before finally letting them move on.
 
Hard-Liner Out of Touch
Judging from available evidence, most of it anecdotal, Iran's fundamentalist and anti-Western hard-liners are out of touch with large numbers of their people, perhaps even a significant majority.
That becomes quickly clear on basic matters like religion, economics and the Government's anti-American stance, which has been softened somewhat in recent days as Iran has accepted United States relief aid after the devastating earthquake last week.
A large sign in the lobby of a major Teheran hotel blares, ''Down With U.S.A.,'' alongside an unsmiling black-ribboned photograph of the country's spiritual leader until his death last year, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
Yet every ordinary Iranian encountered this week told a visiting American, even before he could raise the subject, that they had affection for the United States and longed for improved relations.
 
Business Has Sagged
As for their daily lives, Iranians complain that business has sagged since the 1988 cease-fire in the Iran-Iraq war and that many food staples have become too expensive. And from telephone operators to shop owners in the sprawling, vibrant bazaar in central Teheran, they say they are tired of the stringent rules of Islamic fundamentalism that are imposed upon them from on high.
In 1979, merchants in the bazaar provided important support for the Islamic revolution. But now many of them express regret, speaking freely if guaranteed anonymity.
''We thought we would be better off, but we're not,'' an appliance store owner said. ''The Shah took your money, but he gave 25 percent of it back. This regime takes it all.''
''The religion is killing us,'' another shopowner complained. Paradoxically, he makes his living on religion. He sells polyester fabric imported from Japan and South Korea that is used to make chadors, the all-enveloping black cloak that Iranian women wear to meet Islamic dictates of modesty.
 
Dislike for the Chador
It is clear that many women, in Teheran at least, would throw off this garment in a second if they could.
His chador business has not been great in the last few years, the store owner said, so he has begun to sell blankets and throw-rugs to take up the slack.
Covering up remains the rule for all women, foreigners along with Iranians, and if they reject a chador, they must wear equally concealing scarves and long coats. But beneath the layers of clothing, one can spot signs of rebellion and attempts at individual expression.
Some women are clearly testing the limits by wearing striking eye makeup, expensive rings, designer blouses, blue jeans and even, in one instance, mesh stockings that offered more than a suggestion of ankle.
 
Dress Rules Tightened
There are frequent pendulum swings here between hard and soft lines on clothing standards. Toughness won out last month when the authorities tightened the rules to forbid unmarried men and women from walking alone together, and to require that men also cover up more of themselves by wearing long-sleeved shirts.
The new regulations do not seem to be enforced, however. Teheran's streets are filled with men in short sleeves or with their long sleeves rolled up.
It might have taken an earthquake to shake up the rules a bit, some Iranians believe. The Government, they say, has been too distracted by last week's disaster to deal for now with something like a dress code.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (90%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: TEHERAN HOTEL (77%); REVOLUTIONARY GUARD (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; TEHERAN (IRAN)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); BOOKSTORES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); WRITERS (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); CONTRACTS LAW (64%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); EARTHQUAKES (50%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE



731 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Evolution in Europe;
Model East German Business Looks to Even Better Days Ahead

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RADEBEUL, East Germany

 BODY:
When the sink-or-swim economic era dawns in East Germany on July 2, Planeta, a manufacturer of printing presses, will be a shoo-in not only to swim, but to leave everyone else in its wake.
With its forward-looking management, its sophisticated products and production techniques, and its large export sales to the West, Planeta is a model for East Germany's 7,000 enterprises, an Olympic swimmer amidst hundreds of slow-moving weaklings. Based in a suburb of Dresden, Planeta is one of the world's top 10 producers of printing presses and is also a leading example of how East German industry is expected, after a shakeout, to grow and become more efficient as a result of economic unification.
Planeta had been part of the giant Polygraph machinery industrial group, which the Government broke up into smaller units in May. Planeta remains state-owned, without clear plans for privatization, although its general manager is interested in attracting some outside investors. 
Peter Kahlert, the general manager, says he is confident that his company will double its sales in just three years as Communist-imposed obstacles to efficiency are swept away. Mr. Kahlert, who has headed Planeta for two years, complains that Communism prevented his 92-year-old company from becoming even more of an East European success story than it already is.
 
Heavy Export to West
Its presses, which cost up to $3 million apiece, are as good as Western-made machines, and it exports half its production to the West. Indeed, the Planeta machines, used to print calendars, magazine covers, detergent boxes and the like, are in demand in the United States and Western Europe.
Another index of Planeta's success is that a dozen Western suitors are eager to sign cooperation agreements with it. And Planeta recently chose a West German company, Konig & Bauer, as a partner over several companies from West Germany, Japan and the United States, including Rockwell Graphics Systems. The West German company will supply Planeta with needed investment funds and technological know-how. Konig and Bauer said it might take an equity interest in Planeta.
Some experts place a value of more than $100 million on Planeta, which Mr. Kahlert said earned about $30 million last year on revenues of $180 million.
''Our product is right, our market is right, and our labor force is good,'' he said.
Though skilled, the Planeta workers lack the Western work ethic, the 50-year-old Mr. Kahlert said. ''There isn't the right approach to work in the whole German Democratic Republic, not just at Planeta,'' he said.
But he expects all that to change come early July, when economic unification of the two Germanys begins. In his view, the advent of capitalism will mean an end to a common feature of central planning: supply snags that closed down Planeta's production line one-and-a-half days a week on average and sapped employee morale. Thanks to more flexible labor rules, he plans to slash bloated costs by laying off 1,000 of Planeta's 5,500 workers.
And he expects Planeta's employees to work harder because they will be paid in West German marks, which can buy whatever the world has to offer.
 
Profit Re-invested in Company
Although 90 percent of its profits went directly to the central Government, $12 million dollars a year was returned to Planeta, a generous sum by East German standards, to buy the latest manufacturing equipment from East or West. This gave Planeta advanced electronics and top-of-the-line machine tools, which were rarities in Eastern Europe.
In a first for an East German enterprise, Planeta acquired an American company in January, buying Royal Zenith, which is based in Long Isaldn and was Planeta's American distributor. Mr. Kahlert said the acquisition would allow Planeta to be more aggressive in North America, and it has already doubled its American order book to $35 million.
Planeta's presses have received favorable reviews in the United States. ''I am several times a millionaire because I got into Planeta presses 15 years ago,'' said John Jarbo, whose Washington, D.C., print-shop owns five of the East German presses. He said they were as good as Western presses, and often lower-priced.
Mr. Kahlert often sounds like a union member when he talks about wages; he is eager to raise them by 25 percent this year. He fears that unless Planeta can keep its profits strong, enabling it to raise wages quickly, many valuable skilled workers will move to higher-paying jobs in West Germany.
He has met repeatedly with his workers to explain that though he would like to raise wages, it would be imprudent to do so now. He says Planeta will first have to improve its productivity.
 
Workers Are Understanding
At a time when workers at many enterprises are clamoring for 70 percent raises to catch up with West German workers, Mr. Kahlert's explanations seem to have won over his workers.
''West German workers needed 40 years to achieve their standard of living,'' said Matthias Reiche, a 30-year-old machine tool operator. ''We can't expect to achieve that standard of living in four months.''
Many of the workers understand Mr. Kahlert's layoff plans. Because of gaps in central planning, Planeta had to establish many operations in house, including construction and laundry, for which Western companies would have found outside suppliers.
Mr. Kahlert said Planeta's work force should be reduced by 18 percent by lopping off these extraneous operations and by laying off hundreds of administrative workers who spend their lives cajoling, yelling, pulling strings and filling out forms in an effort to obtain supplies from central planners.
Planeta's Western partner plans to be tougher than Mr. Kahlert. ''The staff at Planeta will have to be reduced by 25 to 30 percent,'' said Klaus Schmidt, assistant to the president of Konig & Bauer, which is based in Wurzburg.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Planeta plant near Dresden, East Germany, one of the world's top 10 producers of printing presses, hopes to double its sales in three years as state-imposed obstacles to efficiency are swept away. (Planeta)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SKB (FRA) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: DRESDEN, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: KOENIG & BAUER AG (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; WEST GERMANY; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF PRINTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TRENDS (74%); SWIMMING (73%); SPORTS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); ETHICS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN PETER KAHLERT (75%); 



732 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Voices: Crisis Over Quebec Arouses More Chagrin Than Alarm

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, June 28

 BODY:
Anybody watching television here in recent days might have thought Canada was preparing for its own funeral.
There have been scenes of people stomping on Maple Leaf flags in the streets of Montreal, of a doleful Prime Minister Brian Mulroney warning the nation not to delude itself about dangers to the nation's survival and glimpses of him and other politicians agonizing over economic damage to Canada if Quebec secedes.
In the decades that the country has wrestled to keep its English-speaking and French-speaking peoples within the confines of a single state, there has rarely been such gloomy clamor.
But already, calmer voices are suggesting that Canada may find a way to remain one country. 
In interviews with Canadians who write about the country, who manage some of its largest financial institutions and who have designed some of its most celebrated buildings, the mood seemed to be less one of alarm than of chagrin that politicians could have allowed the bonds uniting the country to become so strained. How Is It Perceived in U.S.? Away from the emotional roller-coaster ridden by the politicians, some Canadians expressed bemusement about how their crisis was being perceived in the United States, where Canada has often been seen as a stable and perhaps stolid neighbor.
''People down there think we're nuts,'' said Stephen Lewis, who was Canada's chief delegate to the United Nations until 1988, and who now serves as a special adviser to the United Nations on Africa.
After reading about the collapse of a constitutional agreement that would have given Quebec special status as a ''distinct society,'' Mr. Lewis said, his American friends telephoned to ask what was going on.
 
'Orgy of Self-Immolation'
''It's simply beyond their imagination that a country like Canada, with so much that other countries can envy, could engage in this orgy of self-immolation,'' he said.
The sense that Canada offers too much to its 25.9 million people for them to demolish the country turned up in some surprising places.
In Quebec, where the latest opinion polls have shown close to 60 percent of those surveyed favoring some form of independence, French-language newspapers have been considered stalwarts of the ''nationalist'' cause.
Yet at the largest newspaper in Quebec, La Presse, with more than 220,000 daily circulation, Alain Dubuc, the editorial page editor, said that the anger against English Canada that drove the independence movement a decade ago had given way to a ''pro-Quebec'' feeling. And this feeling, he said, might still be accommodated within Canada.
''Most people in Quebec really don't want to separate,'' he said. ''It would be a heavy, burdensome process.''
The editor, noting that the Premier of British Columbia, William Vander Zalm, had said that he would favor a constitution that declared his timber and fish province on the Pacific coast also to be a ''distinct society,'' suggested that Canada should become a looser confederation.
In it, all provinces, including Quebec, would have broad autonomy while uniting around a common currency, unified armed forces and allegiance to treaties.
''I think our demands could be the basis for a new deal for Canada, which might not only be good for us but for the rest of the country, too,'' Mr. Duboc said.
 
Soul-Searching Deplored
Some of those interviewed felt the country had been through needless soul-searching since two English-speaking provinces killed the constitutional accord with Quebec by withholding consent.
''I think it's not a crisis at all,'' said Richard M. Thomson, chairman of the Toronto Dominion Bank, which has assets of $57 billion.
Mr. Thomson noted that provinces representing more than 90 percent of the English-speaking population outside Quebec had ratified Quebec's desire to protect its identify as home to five million French-speaking people.
''This was a technical failure, not a failure of spirit,'' the executive said.
On Saturday, in a televised lament for the constitutional pact, Prime Minister Mulroney backed away from earlier expressions of foreboding by stressing that Canada was held together by more than ''dry parchment'' - meaning the Constitution.
The interviews turned up a strong echo of this. Several people predicted that Quebec and the rest of the country, whatever the strains of working out new arrangements, would eventually rally around their shared history, economic links and unwillingness to risk being submerged politically by the United States.
''Have you been to Louisiana?'' asked Margaret Atwood, the Toronto writer who has won critical acclaim in the United States, most recently for her novels ''The Handmaid's Tale'' and ''Cat's Eye.''
Ms. Atwood said that visits to a writer friend in Louisiana had shown her how a once-thriving French culture had withered without the protections given to Quebec.
Among the English-speaking Canadians interviewed, a common view was that after living alongside each other for more than 300 years, French and English Canadians know disturbingly little about each other. This must be changed, they agreed, if a lasting political accord is to be reached.
Ms. Atwood suggested that much of the fault lay with Quebec, where, she said, resentments over the British conquest in 1759 seemed to outweigh efforts in recent decades to spread the use of French and to guarantee Quebec a decisive share of power.
''I understand the historical background, the desire to protect an identity but I don't feel I'm stepping on anyone's neck,'' she said.
 
Strong Echoes of View
Among English-speaking Canadians with Quebec roots, this view found strong echoes.
Mordecai Richler, the novelist, spoke of the dissension as ''a childish tribal squabble'' that he said had been touched off by the Quebec Government's imposing French-only laws.
Moshe Safdie, the architect of Canada's new National Art Gallery, assailed the ''hypocrisy'' of blaming English-speaking Canada for a lack of understanding of Quebec while remaining silent about Quebec's treatment of its English-speaking minority.
While Canada would have to make allowance for Quebec's cultural distinctiveness, Mr. Safdie said in a telephone call from London, where he was celebrating his 60th birthday, Quebec would have to reciprocate by accepting that it was bound, like other provinces, to respect the rights of minorities under the country's Bill of Rights, which the province overrode in imposing its French-only laws.
But Mr. Lewis, the former chief delegate to the United Nations, said that if Quebec was to be discouraged from taking its independence, the effort to break down misunderstandings would have to begin among English-speaking Canadians. They have shown, he said, ''a determined imperviousness to what has been going on in Quebec for years.''
Mr. Lewis suggested that this insensitivity was part of a broader pattern.
''We have a quite unwarranted reputation as a generous, sympathetic, tolerant society,'' he said. ''But it's just not the case. Canada is simply not the angelic crucible of tolerance we've always pretended.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen Lewis, Former Canadian delegate to the U.N. (The New York Times); Margaret Atwood, Author (Jerry Bauer); Alain Dubuc, Editorial page editor of La Presse (Canadian Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; DUBUC, ALAIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



733 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Mandela Mania: Inner-City Children Find Hero of Their Own

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 28

 BODY:
In a sun-dappled schoolyard here, a dozen children lost themselves in the furious foot-stomping of an African dance. They flailed their arms and twirled and swooned, and chided the few who got out of step because everything had to be perfect.
They were, after all, rehearsing to perform today for Nelson Mandela, the South African anti-apartheid leader, matter-of-factly described by one young dancer, Quirita Quates, as ''just the greatest man in the world.''
In his eight days in this country, Mr. Mandela may have charmed the United Nations and won standing ovations at a joint session of Congress, but perhaps his most captivated audience is the generation of schoolchildren who were not even thought of when he was first jailed more than 27 years ago. 
But when Mr. Mandela arrived at the airport here at 5:45 this afternoon, he was more than three hours behind schedule, so the children were not able to perform for him. Still they waved and cheered as he was officially greeted by Mayor Coleman A. Young, and dignitaries including the president of the United Automobile Workers, Owen Bieber, whose union has given strong support to the anti-apartheid movement.
 
Warm Reception at Ford Plant
Shortly afterward, Mr. Mandela was greeted with a roar by hundreds of U.A.W. Local 600 workers at the Ford River Rouge plant in Dearborn. Ford had pulled its operations out of South Africa as part of an anti-apartheid protest.
Tonight a crowd of 52,000 people waited for more than three hours in Tiger Stadium for a 25-minute speech by Mr. Mandela, who was welcomed by a 2,000-member choir singing, in Zulu, the anthem of the African National Congress.
At almost every stop so far in his eight-city tour, young people have been right beside him, presenting him flowers at the airport, singing African hymns and urban rap songs, cheering and dancing for a man who has caused near-mania among inner-city children hungry for a hero.
''The tension is high,'' Marvis Cofield, who runs a youth center in Detroit, said on the eve of Mr. Mandela's visit here. ''When you're black, how many times do you get to see somebody that looks like you and has gotten the attention of the world?''
A sense of wonder and jubilation has swept through playgrounds and summer school classrooms where, after hearing adults talk of little else in recent days, many children -black and white - are embracing Mr. Mandela as a grandfather they've heard about and are finally getting to see in the flesh.
 
History Comes to Life
''For the last three months, the schools have been full of Mandela, Mandela, Mandela,'' said the Rev. Jim Holley of Little Rock Baptist Church, who is a coordinator of the Detroit visit. ''Now all the books and pictures are coming to life, and he's responding in a storybook way - gentle, kind and cuddly at a time when we need a hero. We need one so bad.''
For a week now children have been making the most of their big chance to see history in progress. At Madison Park High School in Boston, students made posters greeting Mr. Mandela's wife that said, ''We love you Winnie.'' They waited for hours to hear Mr. Mandela's 10-minute speech.
At Boys and Girls High School in New York, students joined Mr. Mandela on stage and accompanied him to City Hall. ''They were not just throwing ticker tape at the parade,'' said Alan Walls, a youth group administrator in Brooklyn. ''They were up on stage with him looking at the crowd from his eyes. Now, anytime they feel they can't do something, they can think of Mandela.''
In Detroit, where city officials are in an unabashed race to raise more money for Mr. Mandela's African National Congress than any other city, children are the cheerleaders.
 
Rally at Tiger Stadium
Five hundred pairs of commemorative Mandela sneakers in the red, black and green of the A.N.C. went faster than prime seats at Tiger Stadium. Competition to go on youth group charters to the stadium's sold-out rally and to the private children's reception for the Mandelas has been so fierce that youth groups have had to hold lotteries and essay contests to decide which children could go.
Last Saturday, several teen-agers stood in the rain for four hours at an intersection near the airport to raise money for Mr. Mandela's cause. They planned to hand-deliver a check to Mr. Mandela for $327 - the amount they raised from curbside donations and a dance they held.
''He's standing up for us,'' said 16-year-old Nezula Sibert, who helped raise the money. ''He was in jail for longer than I have even lived. We wanted to do something to help him out.''
Most children want to do more than that. They want to touch him, play basketball with him, ask him what kind of music he likes and what kind of food he ate while he was in prison. And they are already assessing the possible effects of his visit. ''If he makes life better in South Africa, he makes life better for us,'' said Jason Bradford, an 11-year-old at Mr. Cofield's Youth Center. ''If Africa's strong, it makes us stronger. Pretty soon we'll have a black President.''
For now, people in the remaining cities on his tour are still trying to figure out how best to see Mr. Mandela. Going to see the man has become the hip thing for the grade school set.
''Not that long ago, some of the kids were ashamed of Africa,'' said Hakim Abdal-Khallaq, owner of Nubian Notions in the Roxbury section of Boston. ''Now they want anything African. They want anything with Mandela on it.''
Black leaders are hoping the euphoria lasts after the commemorative Mandela sneakers are scuffed up and outgrown.
''With Mandela here, this is the closest many of these kids will ever get to Africa,'' Mr. Holley said. ''Many of them wear the continent on their neck and can't find it on the map. I'm hoping that after Mandela, these kids will feel that they're not just going to school for themselves, but they're going to school for a nation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; DETROIT (MICH); DEARBORN (MICH)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (NON-US); SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); DANCERS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MUSIC (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); RAP MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; MANDELA, NELSON; YOUNG, COLEMAN A (MAYOR); BIEBER, OWEN F NORM COLEMAN (69%); 



734 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Beware The Condor

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
A charge was made in this space a month ago that the Defense Ministry of France was turning a blind eye to the shipment of Sagem inertial missile guidance systems to Iraq.
French officials denied this with the same air of offended innocence displayed 18 months ago by West Germans when The New York Times revealed that German companies built Libyan and Iraqi poison-gas factories. (This week, a German Todeskramer - ''merchant of death'' - was sentenced to five years in jail.) When asked by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about the report that the French had helped extend the range and improve the accuracy of Iraqi missiles, John Kelly, Assistant Secretary of State, testified, ''the intelligence, as I understand it, doesn't demonstrate that we have evidence that that is true.'' 
If the C.I.A. is unaware of sophisticated guidance systems sold to Iraq, it would be the only major intelligence service in the dark.
However, Secretary Kelly also testified, ''I know of no written or oral communication'' by State Department lawyers to Justice prosecutors about the potential indictment of a high-ranking Iraqi in the investigation into $3 billion in funny funding at the Lavoro bank's Atlanta office.
Because the misleading Kelly assertion could be controverted by further Senate questioning of others, I conclude that State is studiously ignoring data that might compromise Western relations with Iraq.
If French journalists want to emulate their hard-digging German brethren, chercher les dual-use guidance systems: orders that are intended for use in the new Condor II missiles are disguised as inertial guidance for aircraft. As a result, Iraq is getting a ''smart'' new missile system capable of delivering a quarter-ton warhead on a target more than 400 miles from its frontier.
Note that this Condor warhead is not so big: that suggests it is designed to deliver a nuclear bomb rather than poison gas. Saddam Hussein already has Soviet Scud missiles capable of reaching both Teheran and Tel Aviv; he is evidently preparing for a delivery system for a nuclear weapon to be ready by 1995.
Put yourself in the shoes of the only man who has started and won a war that cost a million lives. Last time Saddam began building a nuclear bomb 20 miles southeast of Baghdad, the Israelis took it out in a surgical strike. (That was deplored in 1981 by George Bush, but probably prevented the later incineration of three million residents of Teheran.) Saddam needs an interim threatener to deter any strike at his greater threat to come. That's what his present missiles are for, and explains his vow to ''scorch half of Israel'' with gas if it takes out his nuclear plant again. Last week, curiously, he extended his retaliatory protection to the West African seacoast nation of Mauritania.
If he already has missiles able to reach Israel, why is he spending great sums on sophisticated guidance systems for the longer-range Condor II? Why does he need to extend his missile-testing area to roomy Mauritania?
The answer to both: The capacity to obliterate the U.S. Sixth Fleet and the capitals of Syria and Turkey would satisfy any dictator's power drive. His past record of destruction would make him a superpower: as Saddam coolly told ABC's Diane Sawyer this week, didn't the U.S. drop the bomb on Hiroshima?
In his PR putsch this week, undertaken at the behest of his panicky Jordanian puppet, Saddam told The Wall Street Journal's Karen Elliott House he would accept nuclear weapons as a gift from the U.S. That was his idea of a joke.
The Bush Administration counsels appeasement: although a half-billion dollars in grain credit guarantees has recently been suspended because kickback greed got out of hand, our Export-Import Bank guarantees continue. An Ex-Im release says serenely about Dow Chemical shipments financed by the U.S. taxpayer: ''it was unlikely that they would be used for the production of chemical weapons.''
Unlikely! Tell that to the 5,000 Kurdish dead in Saddam's poison-gas attack on Halabja.
Before the U.S. can protest other countries' aid to Iraq's Condor II, we need to clean up our act. Senator Inouye has a quarantine bill to stop trade, aid and the arms buildup.
The Bush Administration argues that other suppliers will take our place and Senator Dole says this will hurt our farmers, but Senator Nancy Kassebaum makes them all look like moral pygmies: ''It would hurt wheat sales in Kansas, that's true. But sometimes we have to stand up and be counted.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: LAVORO BANK AG (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; MISSILES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (87%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); SPACE NAVIGATION & CONTROL SYSTEMS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); SENTENCING (75%); LITIGATION (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); POWER PLANTS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); WRITERS (67%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (61%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



735 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Albany Leaders Agree on Hospital Aid Increase

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 28

 BODY:
Legislative leaders agreed tonight on a major revision of the state's system of health-care financing that would bail out distressed hospitals. The pact would also provide substantial incentives for expanding the availability of primary care, although not by as much as Gov. Mario M. Cuomo had requested.
The accord between the Assembly and the Senate will pump $420 million into New York's health-care system. The state will provide $52 million through increased Medicaid payments, a move that will set off an automatic increase in contributions from the Federal government, local governments and private insurers, who will pay the rest. Some business leaders fear that health insurance premiums paid by private businesses could jump as much as 20 percent because of the accord. 
The agreement was seen as a major victory for the state's hospitals, which would receive far more than had been recommended by Mr. Cuomo and his Health Commissioner, Dr. David Axelrod. The money will help hospitals cope with a debilitating nursing shortage and crowded emergency rooms and compensate them for rapidly increasing labor costs and the high price of treating patients with AIDS and drug-related conditions. ''It appears that the Legislature has attempted to come to terms with every major problem the hospital system faces,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.
 
No Veto Expected
Mr. Cuomo, whose aides were not involved in the hospital reimbursement negotiations, had not signed off on the agreement by late this afternoon. But legislative leaders believe their bill gives the Governor enough of what he wants to forestall a veto.
The risk of a veto was not the only political obstacle facing the legislation today. After a day of bizarre election-year maneuvering, the reimbursement bill remained the political captive of two other pieces of important health-care legislation.
When the discussions on hospital reimbursement concluded tonight, the Democratic negotiators representing the Assembly majority believed they had reached an agreement with their Republican colleagues from the Senate on an innovative, but potentially expensive, plan to provide state-subsidized health insurance for poor children.
Senate officials said today that there was a basic understanding on the framework for such a plan. But they said that they would not pass a children's health insurance plan unless the Assembly and Mr. Cuomo accepted legislation to cap the fees doctors can charge senior citizens.
Senator Michael J. Tully, the chairman of the Health Committee, said the Senate Republicans were very concerned about the potential cost of the children's health insurance plan. But he and other Senate leaders suggested that the bill would be easier to swallow if passed in conjunction with the legislation limiting doctors' fees, which is known as mandatory Medicare assignment.
''They want to hold the kids hostage for the seniors,'' said Eve E. Brooks, executive director of Statewide Youth Advocacy and a leading lobbyist for the children's health insurance package.
The political wrangling over the health bills, all of it conducted behind closed doors with the Legislature seemingly close to adjournment, was largely about how the measures might affect this fall's elections. The Republicans hold a 34-to-26 margin in the 61-member Senate, but the Democrats have threatened a strong campaign to reverse that majority. One seat is vacant.
Mr. Cuomo and Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, both Democrats, have made a children's health insurance plan an important part of their legislative agenda for the year. The law would provide free or low-cost insurance for almost half of the 260,000 children in New York State who are currently without medical coverage, a program with great appeal to traditional Democratic constituent groups.
 
New Formula Needed
The Senate Republicans, meanwhile, hope to appeal to the state's influential senior citizens lobby by portraying themselves as the defenders of Medicare benefits.
The Senate's proposal for to limit doctors' fees is actually less generous to senior citizens than one favored by the Assembly. But by insisting that the bill be linked to hospital reimbursement, campaigning Republicans would be able to argue that they forced action on an issue that might otherwise have died this session.
The Legislature has no choice about approving a new hospital reimbursement formula this year. The current three-year formula, which determines the amount hospitals are paid by Medicaid, Blue Cross/Blue Shield and private insurers, expires on Dec. 31.
The state's hospitals have run up operating losses estimated at more than $1 billion in each of the last two years.
The state's budget, which was approved last month, included almost $500 million for a normal inflationary adjustment for hospitals. It also included $13 million to pay for the changes the Legislature would later make in the reimbursement formula.
 
Dividing the Aid
That $13 million covers the state's share of Medicaid payments, the government's health insurance program for the poor, in the last quarter of this fiscal year. Because it also dictates the share of Medicaid payments that must be made by the Federal and local governments, as well as the reimbursements required of private insurers, the state's $13 million, which will grow into $52 million on an annual basis, will bring hospitals an estimated total of $420 million.
Mr. Cuomo and Dr. Axelrod had hoped that the $13 million would be divided by providing approximately $7 million for hospital inpatient services and $6 million for outpatient services. By giving such a large proportion to outpatient services, they reasoned that hospitals would be prodded into opening and expanding family and community clinics, a move that would relieve crowding in emergency rooms.
 
Bonus for Rural Hospitals
The formula announced today, however, would give between $9 million and $10 million to inpatient services and the rest to outpatient programs.
The largest chunk would give hospitals money to increase the salaries and benefits needed to attract registered nurses and other health care professionals. Money also was provided for the acquisition of new medical technology, unexpected capital expenses like asbestos removal and the cost of inpatient admissions from emergency rooms.
Rural hospitals that have difficulty retaining personnel were given a bonus, as were hospitals with high proportions of complicated cases, like AIDS.
Although the money for outpatient services is not as much as Mr. Cuomo wanted, that area did receive a financial boost. Among other measures, the cap on Medicaid payments for visits to outpatient clinics would be raised to $70 from $60 and the maximum payment to hospitals for outpatient services provided in emergency rooms would rise to $97.50 from $90.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GREATER NEW YORK HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (61%); MEDICARE (84%); MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; AGED; MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION); MEDICARE; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RATES HOSPITALS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INSURANCE (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); AIDS & HIV (68%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (67%); CHILD WELFARE (60%); MEDICAID (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); SACK, KEVIN DAVID AXELROD (52%); 



736 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Get Tough With Cuomo Is Bush Advice to Rinfret

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
Pierre A. Rinfret, New York's Republican candidate for Governor, said President Bush told him today to hit Mario M. Cuomo and ''hit him hard'' in this fall's election campaign.
Mr. Rinfret then spent much of his day here hammering away at the Governor for having been ''too chicken'' to serve in the Korean War, when Mr. Cuomo had a student deferment.
But Mr. Rinfret, who saw the President during a brief photo session at the White House with gubernatorial candidates from several states, declined to offer any specifics on the advice Mr. Bush may have given him and said, in any event, that it was not particularly detailed.
''We were like cattle through a chute,'' said the economist, who began his first run for political office after nearly a score of other possible contenders turned down offers from Republican leaders. ''He said, 'Hi ya, Pierre.' I've never met him in my life.'' 
 
Bush Looks 'Much Thinner'
Mr. Rinfret, who said the President looked ''in great shape, much thinner than he does in the pictures,'' continued his free-wheeling style in several other appearances today.
He suggested that officials ''down the line'' from Mr. Cuomo were going to single him out for an audit of his state income taxes but admitted this was only conjecture. When a reporter asked why he was throwing out such a charge without proof, he said, ''Then I'll pull it back. How's that?''
He also said that he would not speculate on whether his candidacy might be damaged by President Bush's concession on the need for more tax revenues, saying that ''nobody knows any details'' about what taxes might be raised.
Republican officials publicly sang Mr. Rinfret's praises and Eddie Mahe, a political consultant who has been hired by the Rinfret campaign, said the candidate would have a lot of appeal because ''the guy's open, he's forthright, he doesn't play games.''
But there were some difficult moments as well. One official at the Republican National Committee silently banged his forehead when Mr. Rinfret said in a television interview that President Lyndon B. Johnson had led the country into the Korean War; actually Harry S. Truman was President when the war began. Mr. Rinfret said that the Republicans had discussed both arranging a Presidential campaign visit this fall and pumping some money into the candidate's treasury, but acknowledged that there had been no firm commitments on either score.
Although Mr. Rinfret is expected to use footage from today's White House visit in his campaign commercials, President Bush is widely seen as having essentially backed away from New York Republicans this year once it became clear that they were encountering difficulty finding both the money and the candidate to defeat Mr. Cuomo.
Mr. Rinfret's dig at Mr. Cuomo for not serving in the Korean War came in the context of accusing Mr. Cuomo of also being afraid to engage in a debate. Both candidates have said that they would would be willing to debate, but have set no dates.
''He's too chicken to debate, just as he was too chicken to serve his country,'' said Mr. Rinfret of Mr. Cuomo. ''All I know is that I served my country, my family served, and my brother-in-law is dead. And I think it's a very fair question to say, 'You had a chance to serve your country in the military and you didn't.' ''
Mr. Cuomo's spokesman, Gary G. Fryer, said the Governor did get a student deferment while at St. John's University. But he said to say that Mr. Cuomo got it because of a lack of courage was ''absurd on its face.''
''We had hoped for a positive campaign, and it's sad that Mr. Rinfret isn't interested in that,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); KOREAN WAR GOVERNORS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); KOREAN WAR (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (70%); INCOME TAX (64%); 

PERSON: RINFRET, PIERRE A; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



737 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: 4 Projects Honored For Design

BYLINE: By PAUL GOLDBERGER

 BODY:
The Albert S. Bard Awards, presented since 1963 by the City Club of New York to outstanding works of architecture and urban design in the city, were given yesterday to four New York projects and four New York public officials. The awards to officials, one of whom is former Mayor John V. Lindsay, represent something of a departure for the Bard Awards, which have gone to more than 100 buildings and projects over the last 25 years but have been presented only four times before to individuals.
Two city-owned buildings received top honors: the reconstruction of the Central Park Zoo, designed by Kevin Roche, John Dinkeloo & Associates, and the restoration and modernization of Brooklyn Borough Hall, designed by Conklin Rossant Architects. Two privately owned buildings - the St. Thomas Choir School at 202 West 58th Street in Manhattan, designed by Buttrick White & Burtis, and the Columbus Townhouses, a development at 103-113 West 89th Street in Manhattan, by Hoberman & Wasserman Architects - received honorable mention. The awards were presented at a program yesterday evening at the Central Park Zoo. 
Mr. Lindsay is being honored by the City Club for his administration's ''enlightened concern for urban design and planning,'' according to the Bard citation. The City Club committee that conferred the award said, ''His administration was unique in establishing quality of design as an important factor in decision-making.'' Mr. Lindsay oversaw the creation of the Urban Design Group within the City Planning Commission, which has since been disbanded, as well the establishment of community planning boards and numerous innovative programs in zoning.
 
More Recent Officials Honored
The other special awards went to more recent officials: Paul A. Crotty and Abraham Biderman, former commissioners of the Housing and Development Administration under Mayor Edward I. Koch, who are being honored jointly for conceiving and implementing the city's 10-year master plan to rehabilitate 250,000 low- to moderate-income dwelling units, and David Gunn, former president of the New York City Transit Authority, for overseeing the renovation of the subway system.
The decision this year by the Bard Awards jury, which was headed by the architects Lee Harris Pomeroy and John Ellis, to confer its highest awards on two projects built by the city itself is unusual for this awards program. In recent years the Bard Awards, generally considered the most prestigious architectural awards that are given specifically to buildings within New York City, have gone mainly to privately built projects. The awards were actually created to encourage serious architectural quality in civic architecture, and were originally intended to go only to city-owned buildings. But when the first Bard jury in 1963 could not find a single building worthy of honoring, the scope was expanded to include any recently completed work of architecture and urban design within the city.
''This marks a kind of return to the original premise of the Bard Awards, honoring projects in which the city itself is the client and the owner,'' said Peter Samton, president of the City Club. ''By honoring these projects, as well as former Mayor Lindsay and these other public officials, we want to send a message that this is a time for the city to plan, to strengthen what it does in design and planning, and not to be shortsighted and use the budget crunch as an excuse to do less.''
 
Fitting Into the Context
The two city-owned projects that received Bard Awards, as well as the two private projects receiving honorable mention, all represent the current trend toward making architecture that seeks to fit into the existing urban context.
The Brooklyn Borough Hall is literally an old building, of course, completed in 1848, modified continually over the years, and now restored to something approximating its original appearance while getting completely modern mechanical systems.
The Central Park Zoo is new, but was designed by Kevin Roche to fit comfortably into the landscape of Central Park as well as relate to the older architecture of the park. It is fanciful and dignified at the same time, and could not be more right for Central Park; in some ways it is the single most encouraging example of city-sponsored public architecture in the last decade.
The St. Thomas Choir School is among the city's best examples of ''contextual architecture'': it is a building of brick and limestone that manages to fit gracefully into a midtown streetscape while still appearing to be a special and distinct place.
The Columbus Townhouses are less handsomely detailed than the choir school, but speak more of the trials and tribulations of the real world. In this case the architect Joseph Wasserman was his own developer, taking on several adjacent sites in the Upper West Side urban renewal district, and this grouping is unquestionably the best of them.
In addition to Mr. Pomeroy, Mr. Ellis and Mr. Samton, this year's Bard awards jury included Amanda Burden, former vice president of planning and design for Battery Park City; Meyer S. Frucher, executive vice president of the development firm Olympia & York; the planner Raquel Ramati, and the architects David Childs and Rafael Vinoly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING & DEVELOPMENT BANK (53%); CITY CLUB (79%); NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY CLUB (NYC); DINKELOO, JOHN, & ASSOCIATES; ROSSANT, CONKLIN, ARCHITECTS; BUTTRICK WHITE & BURTIS; HOBERMAN & WASSERMAN ARCHITECTS

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; BARD, ALBERT S, AWARDS ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); CITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); ZONING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL; ROCHE, KEVIN CHRISTIE HEFNER (50%); 



738 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 24, Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: TV Weekend;
The Urge to Gamble, and How to Fight It

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Gambling as an addiction, as severe and destructive as an addiction to alcohol or any other drug, is the subject of ''Lucky Number,'' a feisty documentary tomorrow at 8 P.M. on Channel 13. Presented by Maryland Public Television, the hourlong essay was made by the same team that did ''Other Faces of AIDS.'' John Grassie is the producer, Everett Marshburn the executive producer. The host and narrator is Charles Gibson of ABC's ''Good Morning America.'' 
At issue is compulsive gambling. The program estimates that at least 110 million Americans gamble, up to 5 million of them compulsively. In a sense, they represent the purest form of addiction: totally psychological. That's one problem. As one victim observes: ''People don't smell dice on your breath or see card marks on your arm.'' As a result, very few treatment programs are available, and some of the better ones, like the one at the Taylor Manor clinic in Maryland, may not always have their expensive tabs covered by medical insurance.
Another problem is that gambling in America is a very big business, reported to generate $250 billion a year, legally and otherwise. In addition to the casinos, there are state lotteries, parimutuel betting and sports wagers. Some of the more pertinent statistics offered about compulsive gamblers: 65 percent are men; 96 percent started betting before the age of 14. Their personal profiles cut across all social, economic and age groups. One expert, Dr. Robert Custer, says that 20 percent of the compulsive gamblers he now treats started in the financial markets.
For compulsive gamblers, addiction takes over their lives. It may start by ''chasing money,'' trying to win back losses, to clean up and pay off debts. But Dr. Robert E. Hunter, a psychologist at Charter Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev., observes: ''In the end stage of the disease, it has to do with anesthesia. They are blocking feelings, blocking sensation, blocking pain, through their gambling.'' The by now familiar penalties are bankruptcy, destroyed families and even imprisonment. Yet these victims are often encouraged by casinos that go on extending credit, and occasionally even free transportation, far beyond the point of no return.
''Lucky Number'' poses some tough questions for the sponsors of gambling, including the 32 states that run lotteries. ''For legislators,'' Mr. Gibson says, ''approving a lottery is a whole lot easier than asking for new taxes.'' Only Iowa has a provision for putting part of its lottery revenues into a Gamblers Assistance Fund designed to support treatment centers throughout the state.
The casinos continue to devise ways to get more money out of their patrons faster. In Las Vegas, for instance, we see the new rapid-play ''video poker'' machines that are especially appealing to women who, it is theorized, do not like the competitive atmosphere of the gaming tables. Some of the women interviewed admit to spending more than 12 hours a day with the machines. A couple of them talk about pawning their valuables to keep going.
The problem of the compulsive gambler is receiving more attention through organizations like Gamblers Anonymous. The producers of this documentary argue that much more could be done, including programs supported directly by clearly reluctant casino operators. Mr. Gibson concludes, ''Just because the problem isn't completely understood doesn't mean it can be ignored.''
 
Lucky Number
Produced by John Grassie; executive producer, Everett Marshburn; presented by Maryland Public Television; Charles Gibson, narrator. Saturday at 8 P.M. on Channel 13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LUCKY NUMBER (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MARYLAND PUBLIC TELEVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC)

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); GAMING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LOTTERIES (89%); POKER (79%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JOHN J CHARLES GIBSON (83%); JOHN GRASSIE (58%); EVERETT MARSHBURN (58%); 



739 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: Friday, June 29, 1990

 BODY:

International
 The U.S. and Japan reached an unusual agreement intended to trim America's spending excesses and to transform the Japanese economy, making it easier for foreigners to do business here. The pact comes after a year of wide-ranging critiques of each other's economies. [Page A1.] 
The battle between T. Boone Pickens and Koito Manufacturing grew more chaotic as the American raider staged a walkout at the company's annual meeting, calling it a ''farce.'' [D1.]
Industrialized economies remain on a steady course at the start of the 1990's, but governments should not ease up in the fight against inflation, the head of the O.E.C.D. said. [D2.]
A sophisticated East German printing-press maker is a model for the nation's 7,000 enterprises. [A4.]
 
 
 
Companies
 The cost of Donald Trump's problems is showing up on the financial statements of the banks he dealt with. Manufacturers Hanover will classify as ''non-performing'' $157 million of loans to the developer. [D1.]
Lotus won a victory against several companies whose software imitates the command structure of 1-2-3 when a judge ruled that its copyright had been infringed. [D1.]
Minolta will sell a Polaroid instant camera under its own name, the two companies announced. Closer links may follow. [D1.]
A $1 billion I.R.S. claim against Federated Stores is said to be under consideration. [D3.]
A.T.&T. plans to reduce its long-distance rates by $300 million, beginning July 1.[D3.]
The Justice Department has asked airlines for detailed information about their computerized system of publishing fares, Government and industry officials said. [D4.]
Conagra's net rose 12.4 percent, and General Mills' earnings more than doubled in the quarter. [D16.]
Toyota chose five U.S. chip makers to work with it to develop 23 specialized parts for future automobiles. [D3.]
 
 
 
The Economy
 Common Cause said savings and loan operators contributed more than $11 million to members of Congress during the 1980's and that lawmakers on the House and Senate Banking Committees got the bulk of the contributions. [D1.]
Resolution Trust said it had all but cleared its first major hurdle by completing the sale of more than 140 institutions. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Stocks advanced for the second day, but volume continued sluggish. The Dow rose 16.58, to 2,878.71. [D6.]
 A new computer system for options trading has been agreed on by four of the five exchanges that trade stock options. [D15.]
 Prices of Treasury securities rose and interest rates dipped in moderately active trading. [D12.]
 The dollar finished mostly higher in relatively quiet trading. Traders said much of the day's activity centered on the yen. [D13.]
 Prices of copper futures rose sharply amid speculation of a strike in Arizona and supply disruptions from Zambia. [D13.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Did Bush break his pledge of ''no new taxes''? Some say the President has not really changed his position. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
John Hayes has been named president of Geer DuBois and will eventually succeed Peter Geer. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D5.]
Mutual fund investors have slowed their headlong rush into stock funds, but are still not taking money out of the funds, despite June's choppy equity market. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: 7276 (TSE) (57%); M (NYSE) (54%); GIS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3647 VEHICULAR LIGHTING EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (53%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: KOITO MANUFACTURING CO LTD (57%); MACY'S INC (54%); GENERAL MILLS INC (53%); PRICES OF TREASURY (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PRINTING EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); TELEPHONE RATES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); COPYRIGHT LAW (65%); COPPER INDUSTRY (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); AIRLINES (63%); FUTURES (63%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); COPPER MARKETS (60%); JUDGES (51%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (52%); 



740 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: American's Big Plans For New Latin Routes

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
If European and Asian routes are the highways of international aviation, Latin America has long been merely a side street. Until now, Pan American World Airways and Eastern Airlines have been the only major United States carriers to fly these southern routes.
But starting on Sunday, American Airlines will begin flying to Central and South America, using Miami as its gateway, in what will be the largest route expansion for the nation's largest airline. American, which bought the routes to 20 cities in 15 countries from Eastern Airlines for $330 million, is expected to exploit the market better than did its struggling predecessor. American has the feeder traffic, advertising budget and reputation for service that Eastern could only dream of. 
''It's a market that's been allowed to lie fallow,'' said Ed Greenslet, an industry consultant. ''Someone with American's punch and aggressiveness will stimulate the traffic flow and make a profit.''
 
An Increase in Flights
American's arrival in Latin America will not set off fare wars, because ticket prices must be approved by the governments of both countries on a route, and do not vary much between airlines. But American will offer more flights to the region than Eastern did and plans to win customers with high standards of service.
American tried to elbow its way into Latin America in 1982, with little success. A route from Dallas to Rio de Janeiro proved unprofitable and the airline dropped it after nine months.
This time, American has shown it is more serious. For instance, it has been building up its hub in Miami, a city that, with its large Hispanic population and southern location, has become the nation's gateway to Latin America. Even before the new Latin service begins, American has 48 flights a day to and from Miami, compared with only about a dozen a year ago.
Analysts estimated that, at first, the new routes would generate less than 10 percent of the airline's $10 billion in annual revenue. But they expect the routes to be profitble by next year.
American plans to expand its Latin American route system, said Arnold J. Grossman, vice president of international planning. For instance, Eastern flew to Santiago, Chile, three times a week, but American will fly there daily. American plans eventually to offer direct flights to Latin America from its Dallas/Fort Worth hub airport and from New York.
With 200,000 passengers a day, American has more traffic than any other airline to funnel into its Latin American flights. That kind of volume is sure to put pressure on financially feeble Pan Am. Latin routes account for 16 percent of Pan Am's revenue and are important to its survival. Pan Am objected to the route sale to American, arguing that it would be placed at a competitive disadvantage. ''We recognize that American is a more formidable competitor, but we don't think they're invincible,'' said Jeff Kriendler, a Pan Am spokesman.
But American's major competition will most likely come from Varig, the Brazilian airline. With 6.7 million passengers last year, the carrier is by far the largest in the region and has the best reputation for service among the Latin American carriers, industry analysts say. Pan Am carried three million passengers in Latin America, Eastern 1.5 million and Aerolineas Argentinas, the second-largest Latin American carrier, 3.7 million. $106 Million Outlay Set American will spend $106 million to begin the new service, including $42 million in Miami alone. That $106 million includes the training of workers, the purchase of computers and the construction of check-in counters.
Industry analysts estimate that the figure also includes at least $20 million for advertising. Executives at American concede that the airline has to overcome a lack of name recognition overseas.
American is expanding so rapidly that it now has a shortage of airplanes. In fact, the carrier has had to delay the expansion of its European service to divert planes to Latin America. American will use mostly twin-engine planes on the new routes, while Eastern used less fuel-efficient three-engine aircraft.
The route purchase is part of American's plan to become a major international airline; air travel is expected to grow much more rapidly abroad than in this country. Indeed, American has already added dozens of weekly flights to Europe in the last few years and is one of nine carriers competing for Government approval for six more routes to Tokyo, one of the most lucrative destinations.
But air travel to Latin America is expected to grow by only 5 percent annually, about half the rate for the Pacific market. ''There is a lot of room to grow in Latin America, but it will never be anywhere near the size of Europe or the Pacific,'' said Mr. Greenslet, the industry consultant.
Next week, American begins flying from Miami to Argentina, Brazil and Chile. By Aug. 15, it plans to fly to 20 cities in 15 Central and South American countries. The routes that American purchased are mainly along the west coast of South America - to destinations like Santiago, Chile, and Lima, Peru, that are more popular with business travelers than tourists. ''It's a beautiful route structure,'' said Russ Thayer, a vice president at Airline Economics, a consulting firm based in Washington. By contrast, Pan Am flies mainly to the east coast of the continent.
The transfer of the routes from Eastern to American has not been seamless. American contends that Eastern misrepresented the condition of its hangar in New York, and is asking that $7.2 million be set aside in an escrow account to cover cleanup costs.
American's flight attendants' union sued the airline when it tried to hire foreign residents in Latin America. (The union has since settled with the airline, which has agreed to limit the number of foreign flight attendants.) American has also faced red tape, as the change in route ownership is processed in South America. ''The biggest problem has been the regressive bureaucracies, which can't process our paperwork in a reasonable amount of time,'' said one American executive who asked not to be identified. Indeed, American has still not received approval to fly to Ecuador.
Eastern had not made a profit on its Latin routes for years, said Timothy Pettee, an analyst with Merrill Lynch. Last year, the airline lost $169 million on the routes.
Karen Ceremsak, a spokeswoman for Eastern, said that in addition to the financial drain the airline also encountered unusual problems on some of its flights. For instance, there were ''quite a number of drug finds'' on Eastern planes flying from Latin America, and as a result several of the airline's jets were confiscated. Mr. Grossman of American said the carrier would take extra security precautions on its flights to the region but he declined to elaborate.

GRAPHIC: Map: Cities in Central and Latin America to be served by Amercian Airlines. (Source: Airline Economics) (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CHILE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; EASTERN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; MIAMI (FLA)

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); TICKET SALES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC



741 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
How to Read Bush's Lips

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
Did President Bush break his pledge of ''no new taxes,'' or, with his carefully phrased, succinct but ambiguous acknowledgement of the need for ''tax revenue increases,'' did he not?
The whooping and hollering of many Republicans against the President's statement indicates that they think he did break his pledge, which they regard as crucial to the outcome of this year's Congressional and gubernatorial elections. ''The President may well go into a back room somewhere and sign off on this deal,'' said Representative Robert S. Walker, a Pennsylvania Republican, ''but Republicans haven't.''
But some Republicans and ideological opponents of tax increases contend that Mr. Bush has not really changed his position. Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, famous as a supply sider, said higher tax revenues can come from many sources, including a growing economy, new Federal fees or taxes on tobacco - or even from lower tax rates. Indeed, President Bush still wants a cut in the capital gains tax, contending that it would spur the economy and raise tax revenues. His statement on the budget deficit and tax revenue increases, issued after his meeting with Congressional leaders, also calls for ''growth incentives,'' presumably including a cut in the capital gains tax. 
Nevertheless, something important has happened; the President's statement on taxes markedly improves prospects of a deal between the White House and Congress to cut the budget deficit. The specifics from Mr. Bush are lacking and need to be worked out in negotiations. Mr. Bush declined to elaborate on his position, telling reporters, ''I'll let the statement speak for itself.''
But in an interview this week, Under Secretary of State Richard T. McCormack, who is serving as the President's ''sherpa'' for next month's economic summit meeting in Houston with the other leaders of the major industrial countries, did discuss Mr. Bush's statement and the reasons he made it now. ''He had this sense,'' Mr. McCormack said, ''that the budget negotiations with Congress were stuck at dead center, and he was determined to move the process off dead center.''
The need to act is urgent, Mr. McCormack added, ''because the budget problem had been made worse by the savings and loan problem; we have had horrible news on the S.&L. problem.''
The President and his advisers clearly do not accept the argument of some economists that the savings and loan bailout need not affect either the budget or the economy, representing a ''wash transaction,'' a transfer of capital from bondholders and taxpayers to depositors.
Even without including the rising costs of the savings bailout in the budget, the Administration has raised its estimate of the budget deficit for the fiscal year 1991 to $159 billion, far above the Gramm-Rudman ceiling of $64 billion.
Slicing the deficit by a mere $30 billion or so, as some have proposed, looks painfully inadequate to stem the buildup of debt. The President has long been deeply troubled by the mounting debt and its long-term effects on the economy and the American people. ''He has a sense of stewardship,'' Mr. McCormack said. ''He doesn't want to pile debt on debt, leaving it for our grandchildren.''
But Mr. Bush wants ''tax revenue increases'' as part of a ''broad package,'' Mr. McCormack added, that would also include ''entitlement and mandatory-program reform,'' cuts in discretionary spending, ''orderly reductions'' in military spending, and ''budget-process reform.'' The President does not want the United States to wind up like Canada after it raised taxes, with ''the same enormous budget deficit, the same percentage of gross national product, but at a higher level.''
Mr. Bush sees long-term benefits for the economy's growth resulting from fiscal measures to cut the budget deficit. ''Reducing the claims on public capital would lower the costs of capital'' and spur investment, Mr. McCormack said.
Another reason the President made his statement now was his concern about the talks with Japan over ''strategic impediments'' to trade. As the United States pressed the Japanese to curb their monopolistic practices and devote more capital to public works at home, Japan urged this country to cut its budget deficit as the basic cause of its trade deficit and growing dependence on foreign capital. The two countries reached a broad agreement on these issues yesterday.
Summing up the President's reasons for opening the door to tax increases, Mr. McCormack ranked the President's ''sense of stewardship'' as No. 1, the danger that the ''budget summit was falling apart'' as No. 2, and the need for a breakthrough in negotiations with Japan on the Strategic Impediments Initiative as No. 3.
But the economic summit meeting also affected the President's decision to move on the vexatious issue of taxes, to show America's will and ability to tackle problems of its own making.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); SAVINGS & LOANS (84%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SILK, LEONARD GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



742 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
TREASURY ISSUES CONTINUE TO GAIN

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The credit market rally continued yesterday, as prices of Treasury securities rose and interest rates dipped in moderately active trading. For the first time this week, dealers said, retail customers were significant buyers of securities.
Traders said that there likely was further room for improvement.
''For now the market is under the trance of a budget accord,'' one Government bond trader said, ''and there is nothing of substance to get in the way of that feeling until we get to the employment numbers a week from Friday.'' 
Most market participants remain skeptical that Congress and the Bush Admnistration will come up with a meaningful package to reduce the Federal budget deficit. Nevertheless, President Bush's statement earlier in the week that tax revenue increases will be needed as part of a comprehensive effort to cut the deficit is still ringing in Wall Street's ears.
 
Afraid Not to Believe
''Whether traders believe what Mr. Bush said or not is not the issue,'' said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J., firm that provides research and commentary on developments in the foreign exchange and credit markets.
''At this juncture, they are afraid not to believe it. There is a clear nervousness about selling securities right now, especially when they are holding meetings in Washington to look for ways to cut the deficit.''
Yesterday's price rise began in London, where traders said a Japanese account bought large amounts of securities.
That purchase, plus a successful auction of new one-year Treasury notes in the early afternoon, bolstered prices further.
''The market is firm and the tone is positive,'' another trader said. ''Despite the auctions this week, it doesn't seem like the Street has many securities on its books.''
At yesterday's auction, the new one-year bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.52 percent, down from the average rate of 7.65 percent on the one-year bills auctioned on May 31.
 
Savings Bailout Bonds
In addition to the successful bill auction, traders were also heartened by the Resolution Funding Corporation's announcement yesterday that early next month it will sell an unspecified amount of 30-year bonds.
Earlier this year, Resolution Funding, the entity established to finance the bailout of troubled savings and loan associations, made two offerings of 40-year bonds that were poorly received. But traders said issues with maturities of 30 years are far easier to sell.
The size of the new bond offering will be announced next week.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 3/4 percent bonds of 2020 were offered in late trading at a price of 103 13/32, up 15/32, to yield 8.43 percent, compared with a yield of 8.47 percent late Wednesday.
Among note issues, the 8 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 102 27/ 32 late yesterday, up 3/8 of a point, to yield 8.44 percent.
Prices of the two note issues auctioned earlier in the week also improved.
By late in the day, the 8 1/2 percent four-year notes auctioned on Wednesday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.38 percent. And the 8 3/8 percent two-year notes sold on Tuesday were offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 8.27 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates dipped slightly.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.73 percent, down 3 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates dipped by 4 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.61 percent.
 
Corporate Issues
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the American General Finance Corporation offered $150 million worth of four-year notes through an underwriting syndicate led by Salomon Brothers Inc.
The 9 1/4 percent notes, which mature on July 1, 1994, were priced at $99.55 to yield 9.387, 97 basis points more than the prevailing when-issued yield on the 8 1/2 percent four-year Treasury notes auctioned on Wednesday.
The issue, which is noncallable for life, is rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and A+ by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Also in the corporate market, Texaco Capital Inc., a financing subsidiary of Texaco Inc., offered $150 million worth of debentures.
The 8 5/8 percent debentures have a final maturity of June 30, 2010, but holders may redeem the securities in three years by exercising a put option at 100. The debentures were priced at $99.85 to yield 8.682, 30 basis points more than the prevailing yield on the 8 5/8 percent three-year Treasury notes at the time of pricing.
Morgan Stanley & Company acted as lead manager for the underwriting, which is also rated A-1 by Moody's and A+ by S.& P. Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was slow, dealers said. Prices of most actively quoted issues were unchanged to up 1/8 of a point.
The tone was somewhat firmer in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds.
According to municipal bond traders, prices of most issues improved by 1/4 of a point to 3/8 of a point.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended June 18. The report had no impact on prices in the credit markets.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price......... 92.376
Discounted Rate......... 7.52%
Coupon Yield......... 8.09%
High Price......... 92.365
Discounted Rate......... 7.53%
Coupon Yield......... 8.10%
Low Price......... 92.386
Discounted Rate......... 7.51%
Coupon Yield......... 8.08%
Accepted at low price......... 2%
Total applied for......... $31,662,840
Accepted......... $10,263,830
N.Y. applied for......... $27,657,715
N.Y. accepted......... $9,572,115
Noncompetitive......... $834,280<
The one-year bills mature July 5, 1991.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: 1-Year Treasury Bills; Tax-Exempt Yields (source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MONEY SUPPLY (65%); BANK FAILURES (60%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 



743 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Trading Is Focused on Yen; Dollar Ends Mostly Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mostly higher yesterday in relatively quiet trading on world currency markets.
Traders said much of the day's activity centered on the Japanese yen, which was helped early in Asian trading by expectations of another increase in Japanese interest rates.
When activity shifted to the West, traders sold the West German mark and the Swiss franc to buy yen, and the dollar retreated to the sidelines. It fell more than a yen against the Japanese currency. 
 
Marginal Interest in Dollar
''It looked as if the yen sort of caught on,'' said Curtis Perkins, a trader with the Chemical New York Capital Markets Group. He said there was only marginal interest in the dollar.
Volume was relatively light in United States markets, said Ian Spence, chief dealer at Manufacturers Hanover Trust. Trading was also subdued in Europe, where dealers awaited Sunday's economic and monetary union of East and West Germany.
In New York trading, the dollar settled at 153.15 yen, down from 154.40 on Wednesday. Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar had gained against the yen, closing at 154.42 yen, up from 154.35 yen. Later in London, it slipped to close at 153.20 yen.
In London, one British pound cost $1.7400 late Thursday, compared with $1.7445 late Wednesday. In New York, one pound cost $1.7384, less expensive than Wednesday's $1.7428.
Against the West German currency, the dollar rose to 1.6730 marks, from 1.6637.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates Wednesday, included: 1.4200 Swiss francs, up from 1.4095; 5.6155 French francs, up from 5.5915; 1,228.00 Italian lire, up from 1,221.50, and 1.1699 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1695.
 
Gold, Silver Gain
In the precious metals market, gold prices firmed. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for June delivery closed at $352.10 an ounce, up 70 cents. Later, Republic National Bank in New York quoted an ounce of gold at $351.10, up $1 an ounce.
The late price of gold in London was a bid of $352.25, up from $350.05. In Zurich, the late bid was $352.60, up from $349.90. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold closed at $350.55, unchanged.
Silver prices also rose. On the Comex in New York, silver for current delivery settled at $4.813 an ounce, up from $4.794 on Wednesday. In London the metal traded at a bid of $4.85 an ounce, up $4.84.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SWITZERLAND (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); ZURICH (57%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (52%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (52%); CHEMICAL NEW YORK CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); 



744 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Bush Defends Reversal on Taxes, Citing Nation's Economic Needs

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Coming very close to admitting that he had abandoned a campaign promise, President Bush defended his reversal on taxes today by painting a bleak economic picture and saying he trusted Americans to understand why he was prepared to accept higher taxes in the 1991 fiscal year.
In an adroit display of verbal gymnastics at a 35-minute news conference that offered unusual insight into the thoughts of a usually reticent man, Mr. Bush never denied that taxes were going to go up or that he had reversed the 1988 ''read my lips'' pledge that helped bring him into the White House. He simply avoided making either point himself.
But several times he all but acknowledged that taxes would be increased to reduce a swelling Federal deficit. He also made clear that he expected to make a speech in a matter of months to defend a budget that does just that. 
Mr. Bush acknowledged the ''arrows'' that had been shot at him this week, but he said with resignation, ''That's what I get paid for.'' [Transcript, page 8.] Reaching for ways to protect himself against a backlash from voters and conservative Republicans, Mr. Bush invoked two party icons: Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan. He also cited a need for ''responsible government,'' appealed for bipartisan support and said his announcement on Tuesday that ''tax revenue increases'' were needed to reduce the budget deficit was an act of political leadership.
The deficit-reduction negotiations now under way between the White House and Congress ''are a make-or-break effort at responsible government,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The Congressional budgeting process must succeed, and the negotiators are facing tough questions about where to make cuts and where to raise revenues, and these are not decisions that anyone relishes. They are decisions that Democrats and Republicans alike have got to face with candor and courage.''
 
A Turbulent Week
With the news conference, which capped one of the most turbulent weeks of his Presidency, Mr. Bush emerged from three days of silence on the tax issue. In that time his top aides had struggled to stanch protests from the Republican right and fought a losing battle with the Democrats over interpretation of his tax announcement Tuesday.
Mr. Bush did not demur when several reporters referred to his ''reversal'' on the tax issue, and he said he could understand those who accused him of breaking his 1988 campaign pledge of ''no new taxes.''
''I think it's wrong,'' he said of that interpretation, ''but I can understand it.''
At least eight times during the news conference, Mr. Bush used language that forecast a tax increase of some kind. ''People know we are going to have to take action,'' he said in one instance. In another, he said, ''The negotiators are free to discuss a wide array of options, including tax increases.''
Mr. Bush explained his shift by offering a grim picture of the economy: ''We now estimate a deficit of over $150 billion in fiscal 1991, not counting the costs of the savings and loan cleanup.''
He went on with a grim picture of budget cuts that would be automatically made if the deficit was not brought down enough: ''Unless Congress acts, there will be a cutoff in October of nearly $100 billion in Government services under the sequester provisions of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law. The potential results are Draconian cuts in defense, student grants and a wide array of other domestic services. And to avoid this, tough decisions must be made.''
Mr. Bush said he was sincere in 1988 when he pledged not to raise taxes. ''I go back to the experiences of previous people that have been in this office who say one thing in a campaign, come in and keep that pledge, if you're talking about taxes, for quite a while and then see there's an enormous problem facing the nation that requires a bipartisan answer.''
Mr. Bush insisted that the economic situation had changed significantly since his campaign. That assertion was in keeping with an economic picture that includes interest rates that have been higher and corporate profits that have been lower than were projected by the Administration when it submitted its 1991 budget proposal to Congress in January. On the other hand, Congressional Democrats have declared all along that the White House budget assumptions were far too optimistic.
''I thought I could do a better job on getting spending down,'' Mr. Bush said today, ''and perhaps getting the reforms of the budget process that I also talked about.''
Asked whether he thought his shift on taxes would damage his credibility, Mr. Bush said, ''No, not in the long run.''
He said that if a bipartisan budget agreement is struck, ''I can go to the Amercan people and say, 'Look we've all had to give or take a little on this, but this agreement is going to be good for future generations, it's going to be good for the economy, it's going to be good for jobs.' Then people will say, 'Look, we support the President.' ''
Mr. Bush said the reaction to his announcement on Tuesday had been ''intense.'' At one point, he said, he met with Republican Congressional candidates and found the atmosphere charged with unspoken concern that he had stripped them of the party's most potent campaign weapon: a no-tax policy.
''I could totally sympathize, empathize, with what they were going through,'' said Mr. Bush.
He continued: ''We didn't have time, because it was about a 45-second handshake, but if we had, I'd have said: 'Now, look, you've got to look at the big picture here. Stay with your position. Advocate what you believe and tell your constituents what you'll try to do, and then just stay a bit open-minded so when we get an agreement - and I hope we will - that is good for the country, that you can say, Well, we can accept this.' ''
 
Reaching for Lincoln
Over and over, Mr. Bush reached for the legacy of Lincoln, who in 1862 spoke of the need to leave old dogmas behind in troubled times. The reference was not to taxes, of course, but to how he should deal with Southern secession.
''Like Abraham Lincoln said, 'I'll think anew,' '' Mr. Bush said.
Mr. Bush, who is usually stung by comparisons between himself and Mr. Reagan, especially on issues that test political conservatism, also said he had comforted himself this week by remembering that in 1982 his predecessor, having run on a no-tax platform in 1980, weathered a similar storm after proposing a budget that raised taxes.
''That caused a furor like we're hearing now,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And the President, in my view, did what was right, and so I think that we're on the right track.''
After Mr. Bush's news conference, negotiators in the deficit-reduction talks resumed their discussions, focusing on proposals for deeper cuts in military spending than those proposed by the President in the budget he submitted in January.
Republicans are talking about shaving $9 billion from the current level of Pentagon outlays, while Democrats have suggested a cut of nearly twice that size.
The negotiations will resume July 10, when Congress returns from a weeklong recess for the 4th of July holiday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Lloyd Bentsen, right, conferring with, from left, Representatives Dan Rostenkowski, Leon E. Panetta and Richard A. Gephardt before deficit-reduction negotiations with Administration officials yesterday. The meeting was delayed by the President's news conference on taxes. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (57%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); INCOME TAX (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LEON E PANETTA (54%); 



745 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sees Broad Effects In A Division of Canada

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
The State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency have concluded that any loosening of Canada's federal makeup as a result of the nation's constitutional crisis would affect a broad range of security, trade and environmental ties between Washington and Ottawa.
The reports, completed in the last few days, make clear that there is no immediate threat to the relationship that the United States has with Canada, its largest trading partner. But they emphasized the effects of fraying Canadian unity on the relationship over the long term.
''We're highly concerned,'' said a senior State Department official who deals with United States-Canadian relations. ''We would be highly distressed if Canada broke up. This situation has major implications for the United States in the long term.'' He was alluding to an array of treaties ranging from security to drug enforcement that extend across the world's longest open border. 
 
A Question of Relations
Strains on Canada's unity intensified last weekend with the collapse of guarantees that would have tied Quebec more firmly to the rest of Canada by granting the French-speaking province a special status. Those strains have led to pessimistic thinking among Canadian specialists in Washington who are accustomed to working on less volatile issues.
In none of these projections do American officials view a potentially independent Quebec as hostile to Washington. But they make the point that coordinating cross-border relations between two sovereign states was complicated enough and to have three involved would alter old balances and require complex renegotiations of treaties, agreements and understandings.
The officials volunteered that they had great respect for Quebec's Premier, Robert Bourassa. They said they regarded him as a moderate whose views on politics, economics and Canada's involvement in NATO would be palatable to Washington if he were to lead the province to independence or greater autonomy. But they said a more realistic problem was that many provinces might follow Quebec's example, creating a formless confederation.
 
Scholars Express Concern
Similar concerns were expressed by scholars.
Seymour Martin Lipset, the Stanford University political scientist, noted that 60 percent of the people of Quebec favored independence and estimated that there was a ''one in four chance of Quebec's becoming independent.''
Such a development, he said, would put Canada ''in the old Pakistan situation,'' in which the country was split in two by a country in between. That, in turn, could heighten cultural and political divisions between eastern and western provinces and lead some provinces, particularly Newfoundland, to apply to Washington for statehood.
Most experts doubt that Quebec will leave Canada soon. None of the reports recommended intervention in the Quebec issue, although United States officials are privately urging officials in Ottawa and Quebec to do as much as possible to hold together.
''Whatever happens up there affects us,'' said Charles Doran, director of Canadian studies at Johns Hopkins University. ''We do not want to see a weak, embittered, fragmented Canada.'' Mr. Doran said a ''balkanization'' of Canada would complicate commercial relations, especially if private companies based in Quebec began asking for Government subsidies.
 
The Stakes Are High
Joseph Jockel, professor of Canadian studies at St. Lawrence University, said: ''Best case, this is a headache for the United States. Worst case, we'll have to deal with several sovereignties on our northern border.''
While it is generally conceded that no change in the relationship is immininent, the stakes are so high that Canadian affairs will now become an issue of greater concern. Among these stakes are issues like the joint management of the Great Lakes, large flows of investments running both ways, closely coordinated anti-narcotics policies, and aerial and naval defense. As partners in the Norad defense system protecting the waters, air and land in the north, Canadian and American armed forces work within a single command structure.
In addition, American experts believe that Canadian hydroelectric power, much of it already coming from Quebec, will be critical for the northeastern United States. And with the 1988 free trade agreement between the United States and Canada working out better than expected, United States officials say, bilateral commerce will be vital to the nation's economic health.
Mr. Jockel, a Canada scholar at St. Lawrence University, said it was conceivable that the Quebec crisis could split Canada. He noted that Bill Danderzalm, Premier of British Columbia, said earlier this week that his province would also consider moves toward autonomy. He added that there were also ''feelings of resentment'' against central control in Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Alberta.
Willard Workman, an officer at the United States Chamber of Commerce who deals with Canada, said he was ''resolutely upbeat'' about American trade with Canada despite the troubles in Quebec. ''We take something of a hit'' if Quebec becomes independent, he said, but added that ''Canada would remain an attractive place to do business.'' He played down speculation that Canada might spin apart in the years to come.
Charles Colgan, an economist at the University of Southern Maine, said ''Canadian options for staying together as a country are shrinking but the United States will adapt to what emerges.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about ways in which Canada's constitutional crisis might affect United States-Canadian relations misidentified the Premier of British Columbia. He is William Vander Zalm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CONSTITUTIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); POLITICS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



746 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
International 2-5
 
Lithuania approved a moratorium on its declaration of independence. The republic agreed to suspend the declaration for 100 days in exchange for negotiations with Moscow and the lifting of economic sanctions. Page 1
 
New issue in Moscow: Televise the Congress? 5
 
Grocery stores in East Germany stood bare and people outside banks stood for hours as the country braced for the surrender of its economy to the West. For most, the suspense and uncertainty were tempered by anticipation of a promising new life. 1
 
Goods that Communism produced have been consigned to the past in East Germany. Virtually empty shop windows and shelves demonstrate this rejection in big cities and towns. 4 
 
The political debate in Poland is beginning to reflect a broad spectrum of interests and antagonisms. The traditional frictions between peasants, workers, intellectuals and even the cities of Gdansk and Warsaw are now finding voice. 5
 
Production of harmful chemicals that destroy the atmosphere's protective ozone layer may be halted by the end of the century. In a landmark agreement, most of the world's nations vowed to stop producing and using chlorofluorocarbons. 1
 
President Bush warned Israel that if he is ''stiff-armed'' by Jerusalem in his effort to help put Israel's own peace plan into effect, he will consider other approaches. 3
 
Iranian President defends acceptance of quake aid 3
 
Deir Hanna journal: Poetry seared in the flames of passion 4
 
A royal wedding was held in Japan. Emperor Akihito's second son, Prince Aya, married a commoner, Kiko Kawashima, in a ceremony in a sacred Shinto shrine deep in the woods of the Imperial Palace. 3
 
Canada's constitutional crisis has led the State Department and the C.I.A. to conclude that any loosening of Canada's federal makeup would severely affect a broad range of security, trade and other ties between Washington and Ottawa. 2
 
Guerrillas free kidnapped U.S. miner 3
 
National 6-10, 24
 
The shuttle fleet was grounded. The space agency announced that it was suspending missions by the nation's three shuttles until engineers can find and fix an elusive fuel leak that has now struck two of the spaceships. 1
 
The defects on the Hubble telescope are the latest example of the space agency's lack of attention to quality control, Senator Al Gore asserted. He is the chairman of a Senate panel on science and space. 10
 
President Bush defended his decision to reverse his position on taxes by painting a bleak economic picture and saying he trusted Americans to understand why he was now prepared to accept higher taxes. 1
 
Bush vetoes bill to give workers's family leave 9
 
Food allotments would be restored for many of the poor women and children who have been cut from a Federal nutrition program under a bill approved by Congress. 1
 
Government bans mercury in interior latex paints 24
 
A television reporter has been jailed in San Antonio. He faces the prospect of months behind bars for refusing to name three people who helped him get an interview with a jailed murder suspect. 6
 
The director of an abortion clinic in Corpus Christi, Tex., has been excommunicated from the Roman Catholic Church by her bishop, who sent her a formal decree separating her from the sacraments of the church. 7
 
An outbreak of fires in California has resulted in at least two deaths. State officials offered rewards for information about the arsonist they say touched off some of the blazes. 6
 
Defense lawyers in the Barry trial went on the offensive, aggressively seeking to portray Mayor Barry's arrest in a videotaped undercover drug operation as overzealous conduct by the authorities. 6
 
Nelson Mandela went to Los Angeles, beginning the final leg of his American tour. He planned to attend a celebrity-studded fund-raising dinner and a concert that together were expected to raise over $1 million for the African National Congress. 10
 
Mr. Mandela's plea for sanctions against South Africa has galvanized the continuing debate in South Africa over their effectiveness in hastening the demise of apartheid. 10
 
Regional 25-28
 
A former Congressman's conviction was overturned by a Federal appeals court in New York. The extortion conviction of Robert Garcia of the Bronx was overturned and the case was sent back for a possible new trial. 1
 
A $28 billion budget was agreed on by the Dinkins administration and the New York City Council after two days of intense negotiations. The budget would bring the largest annual tax increase in city history. 25
 
Jerseyans ask if tax increases are worth the pain 27
 
Dinkins reduces club task force 27
 
In Albany, any two chairs soon tilt at each other 26
 
Joe Doherty can apply for asylum, a Federal Appeals Court in Manhattan ruled. A former guerrilla with the Irish Republican Army, Mr. Doherty has struggled to escape a lifelong prison sentence in Britain. 25
 
Racketeering law applies to utilities, court rules 27
 
Power failure leaves commuters stranded for an hour 27
 
A stringent newspaper-recycling law was signed by the Suffolk County Executive. It requires newspapers with weekly circulations of 20,000 or more that are printed or sold in the county to publish only on recycled paper by the end of 1996. 25
 
A popular five-and-dime may close in Rye, N.Y. In a city where trendy boutiques have bloomed, the campaign to keep Woolworth's open seems to have as much to do with preserving a symbol as saving a place that sells a little bit of everything. 25
 
Donald J. Trump is good for a laugh. From the Doonesbury comic strip to ''Late Night With David Letterman'' to tourists in the shiny marble halls of his own buildings, people are reveling in reviling the real-estate developer. 27
 
Trump ousts president of shuttle 31
 
Business Day 31
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
The N.E.A. rejected 4 of 18 grants recommended by the agency's theater peer panel. Each of the four who were denied grants is a performance artist whose act includes strong sexual content and each had received grants in the past. 1
 
The Quedlinburg artworks may have been mailed home 11
 
Film: ''The Big Dis'' 13
 
Music: Regina Belle sings 15
 
Dance: Russian provincial 11
 
Book: ''The Ends of Greatness'' 15
 
British press gets warning 46
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Mets win 11th straight 43
 
Stewart pitches no-hitter 43
 
White Sox beat Yankees 45
 
Column: Berkow on Eric Gregg 43
 
Golf: Trevino breaks a record 43
 
Obituaries 29
 
Irving Wallace, author
 
Jerome K. Ohrbach, former president of Ohrbach's
 
Consumer's World#30
 Lawn care company admits safety claims were too broad
 
What windowless air-conditioners do - and don't
 
Coping with pet portraiture
 
To wash a flag, ''treat it like lingerie''
 
Guidepost
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials 22
 
Give Gorbachev credit
 
Congress, still for sale
 
Repairing the census
 
An exceptional preacher
 
Letters 22
 
Flora Lewis: Mandela must judge again 23
 
Russell Baker: Herky-jerky bang bang 23
 
Ewa Zadrzynska: Nasty? Try New York 3
 
Stuart M. Butler: Bush's biggest blunder 23
 
Franjo Tudjman: All we Croations want is democracy 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: NEWS SUMMARY (NYT)

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); POLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (67%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (88%); SPACE INDUSTRY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); VETO (77%); FAMILY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); SPACECRAFT (66%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (66%); RELIGION (64%); QUALITY CONTROL (60%); NUTRITION (50%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



747 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 6379 words

HEADLINE: President's News Conference on Domestic and Foreign Issues

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's news conference here today, as provided by the Federal News Service, a transcription company:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
Good morning, everybody. And I'm leaving in a few hours and will be gone from Washington for several days. Congress is about to close up shop for the Fourth of July holidays and so I thought it would be a good idea to bring you up to date on a wide array of current topics and respond to your questions.
During the next two weeks the U.S. will join its allies in considering a number of crucial political security and international economic issues. And seldom in the last 40 years have such questions had such direct impact on the lives of all Americans. Today in the U.S. we are carefully examining the historic changes in Eastern Europe, the size of our military forces, our ability to compete in world markets, the assistance that we provide to help emerging democracies, and the size and priorities of our own budget and how to continue the 90 months of economic expansion that we've enjoyed. These issues are not abstract. Every American has a stake in how we as a nation address these very complex questions. 
On July 5th and 6th in London the NATO alliance will gather to forge a new direction for the future. And at the Houston economic summit we will press for progress in the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations, discuss economic support for various countries and review progress on the environment.
These international concerns are reflected in many of the decisions I made just this week. First, we are doing what is necessary to assure continuation of the economic expansion, now in its 90th month, and we want to keep it going. We now estimate a deficit of over $150 billion in fiscal 1991, not counting the costs of the savings and loan cleanup. And this means that unless Congress acts, there will be a cutoff in October of nearly $100 billion in government services under the sequester provisions of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings. The potential results are Draconian cuts in defense, student grants and a wide array of other necessary domestic services, and to avoid this, tough decisions must be made. And leadership is needed, and that is exactly what Administration officials are seeking to provide and indeed, in these talks, I believe are providing.
 
Tough Questions on Budget
The budget negotiations now under way are a make-or-break effort at responsible government. The Congressional budgeting process must succeed and the negotiators are facing tough questions about where to make cuts and where to raise the revenues, and these are not decisions that anyone relishes. They are decisions that Democrats and Republicans alike have got to face with candor and courage.
And frankly, I believe that ultimately good politics is rooted in good government, and I'm optimistic that we can get a budget agreement legislated which not only tells the world that America puts its fiscal house in order, but also will garner the full support of the American people.
Secondly, this week we reached an agreement with the Japanese on the Structural Impediments Initiative that's going to help to open markets and create new opportunities for business and commerce.
Next, we took an important step toward increasing jobs, opportunity, and economic prosperity throughout our own hemisphere - Enterprise for the Americas, an innovative and I think visionary plan for increased trade and investment with Latin America and the Caribbean, and the response from south of our border has been overwhelmingly positive. And this included a new proposal on official debt in the hemisphere which will help our neighbors in Latin America and the Caribbean resume the process of growth.
We developed a plan for protecting our coastal resources - this O.C.S. decision -while also endeavoring to protect energy independence. And as I leave for the Fourth of July holiday, and then from there to the NATO summit, and then to the Houston economic summit, I just wanted to assure you that the America - America will squarely face the challenges of leadership that are before us, both domestically and in terms of intenational affairs. Terry?
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Reversal of Stand on Taxes
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you about your reversal on no new taxes. Do you consider that a betrayal of your promise, and what do you say to Republicans who complain that you've robbed them of the same campaign issue that helped get you elected?
A. Well, I don't - I think what I consider it is a necessary step to get stalled budget negotiations moving. And I am very encouraged with the approach taken now by Republicans and Democrats in this - in these important discussions that are going on. I'm not going to discuss details, what I'll accept and what I won't accept, but things are moving, and I think that much more important today is getting this deficit down, continuing economic expansion and employment in this country. So that's the way I'd respond to it.
Q. Well, what do you say to - can people trust politicians if they make statements and are willing to break them?
A. Well, you know, I recall a previous flurry when I was Vice President, and there was some economic plans proposed back in 1982 that causes a furor something like we're hearing now. And the President, in my view, did what was right, and so I - I think that - I think that we're on right track. And I think that the arrows have been flying, front, back, sideways, but that's what I get paid for. And I think - I think we're on the right track now. And I think we'll have strong support from both sides of the aisle.
Q. Mr. President, do you will believe it will hurt your credibility?
A. No, not in the long run.
Q. Why not? A lot of people are already --
A. Because what people are interested in are jobs, economic growth. People know this deficit is bad. People know that we are going to have to take some action, and that's why I think not.
Q. But what will you say to American people who said you may have promised not to -no new taxes - not --
A. I'll say I take a look at a new situation. I see an enormous deficit. I see a savings and loan problem out there that has to be resolved. And like Abraham Lincoln said, I'll think anew. I'm not - but I'm not violating or getting away from my fundamental conviction on taxes, anything of that nature. Not in the least. But what I have said is on the table, and let's see where we go. But we've got a different - we've got a very important national problem, and I think the President owes the people his - his judgment at the moment he has to address that problem. And that's exactly what I'm trying to do. And look, I knew I'd catch some flak on this decision - just those two words. But I've got to do what I think is right, and then I'll ask the people for support. But more important than posturing now or even negotiating is the result. Do we continue to provide jobs for the American people and do we continue to provide economic growth, and do we try to stop saddling the generations on the way up and the young people with absolutely unacceptable deficits? Yeah?
 
Savings and Loan and Budget
Q. What will you do with the savings and loan situation? Is there any way to do a budget with that still coming out of general revenue or do you have to push the whole issue off to the side?
A. Well, we're - we can't push it off to the side. We've got to solve the problem. My interest on that one, incidentally, is to protect the depositor; put the people that broke the law in jail. And that is exactly what the policy that we proposed did. We came in here 18 days after taking office, initiated a very important savings and loan policy. And the size of the savings and loan problem is terrible and we are trying very hard to go after the criminals and to have in place rules and regulations so that this will never happen again and to protect the depositors. Those are the three key elements of what I'm trying to do.
Q. But where do you pay for it? Is it out of the taxes the Government takes in every year from the American taxpayer?
A. Well we have to. People are going to have to pay for it. And that's - it goes as a part of all our expenditures I'm talking about. There has got to be a remedy. Yes?
 
Deadlock on Mideast Talks
Q Yeah, Mr. President, on another subject. Prime Minister Shamir has sent --
A. Good, Michael. I was hoping we'd get to another one.
Q. Well, we can go back to these taxes later. But Prime Minister Shamir has sent you a -what appears to be a pretty tough letter ruling out flatly talks with any Palestinian with any sort of authority. Do you feel the peace process is deadlocked and are you concerned that the hard-liners, the voices of extremism now have the upper hand throughout the region?
A. I am concerned about a deadlock in the peace process. We have received the Shamir letter. It came over to me late last night. The analysis process between N.S.C. and State has just started so I can't give you - or provide the American people with a response to that letter. But, yes, I am very concerned about a high centering of the peace process. And we've had a plan and it is a sound plan and I want to see it go forward. So we will be analyzing the Shamir response very, very carefully and hopefully, I would then go back and say, find some - find some way - find some material in the response that permit us to get these talks going again. It is essential; the status quo is unacceptable to everybody. But I can't give you right now whether I think the letter is negative or positive or something of that nature.
Q. Well, can you see any way to get this peace process going unless the Israelis show some willingness to talk to the Palestinians with some authority?
A. I think there has got to be discussion with Palestinians, and that has to happen, and we will push and find ways to make it happen if we can. We're halfway across the world, but we are going to not - we are not going to give up on that kind of solution to this problem. We have to do that. But if we get totally stiff-armed on the Baker approach or what was the Shamir plan, Mubarak's help on it - he could have his name on it - and then we go back to the drawing board, because we're not going to sit here and do nothing. Yeah, Leslie?
 
Issue of Increasing Revenue
Q. Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I'd like to go back to taxes.
A. Oh, Leslie, I thought you'd want to get back to taxes.
Q. I know it's hard for you. I can tell it is somewhat difficult.
A. It's not hard.
Q. O.K., if it's not hard, could you clarify what seems to be a fuzzing-up of the issues by some Republicans who are trying to say that your new statement isn't new? Are you telling the American people that this budget outcome is going to be higher taxes?
A. I'm telling the people that there's negotiations going on right now, and there are no preconditions, and everything's on the table. And we will see where we come out. And when we get an agreement that is supported by Democrats and Republicans alike, I will then - and if I think it's a good agreement, I will then tell the American people clearly why they need to support it, what's at stake for them in terms of jobs, continued growth in this economy.
Q. But you're saying right here - you're not saying it. You're not saying, We have to raise taxes. Why aren't you saying it?
A. I'll tell you - oh, I'm sorry, I missed your point - we agreed with the Democratic leaders that we would not discuss the details of what's going on in these discussions, and we're not going to do that. So, if and when we come up with a program that raises revenues - and our original budget talked about that - and if there are taxes in it, why then, I will go out there and advocate strong bipartisan support for this. But if I get into going into each kind of tax that's discussed or each kind of budget reform, or each kind of spending cut, I will be doing something that I have asked our negotiators and the Congress not to do.
Q. Yeah, but when you say in your statement, tax revenues are required --
A. Yeah.
Q. -- is that the same as taxes?
A. And I say budget reforms are required, and I say spending cuts are required, and so let's see where we come out on that.
Q. But is it taxes?
A. Is what taxes?
Q. What you're saying. Are you saying taxes are - higher taxes are --
A. Leslie, I've told you what I've said, and I can't help you any more. Nice try.
Q. You said we needed --
A. You got it. You got it, and you've got a -you've seen the arrows coming my way. And that's fine, but - let people interpret it any way --
Q. Well, I have --
A. Well, I want to leave it the way I said I would, so the negotiators are free to discuss a wide array of options, including tax increases. Does that help?
Q. No --
 
Sharp Criticism Over Shift
Q. Mr. President, you've mentioned a couple of times that you're getting arrows from all directions. One newspaper headline has declared, ''Read My Lips: I Lied.'' Is this kind of criticism justified? Is it fair? Do you deserve it?
A. Well, I expected it. But I don't - I think the deserving of it will - the proof of pudding is going to be in the eating, and how it comes out, because I think the American people recognize that the budget is greater than we had predicted and the Democrats had predicted, the economy has been slower, and so we'll just wait and see how we come out.
But no, I can't say I didn't expect to hear some campaign words played back to me, and it's been fairly intense. But I'll tell you, I've been more relaxed about it than I thought I'd be. I went back into history and took a look at what others have had to go through in this job. So it hasn't been as - it hasn't been as tense - you know, we had some Congressional candidates over there yesterday, people running, and they don't want to see tax increases. And some of them - I could see them - How are we going to handle this? We don't want to be rude to the President, but we feel strongly. And so one or two of them, a couple of them, spoke up, and I could totally sympathize - empathize with what they were going through.
And - but I - we didn't have time, because it was about a 45-second handshake, but if we had, I'd have said: Now, look, you've got to look at the big picture here. Stay with your position. Advocate what you believe, and what you - tell your constituents what you'll try to do, and then just stay a little bit open-minded so when we get an agreement, and I hope we will, that is good for the country, that you can say, well, we can accept this, because we're going to need support from Republicans and Democrats alike, to say nothing of the American people. But I think the people will support it. I think they want to see jobs and economic growth, and that is what is at stake here.
Q. But within hours --
A. Just a follow --
Q. -- within hours after you released the statement, some of your staff members, Chief of Staff John Sununu, for one, was up on the Hill trying to assure conservative Republicans that nothing has changed. At this point --
A. I think what he was talking about is that everything is on the table. Nothing has changed. I saw a lot of interpretations of what he said, but I've not seen a statement or anything of that nature. And you've got various interpretations from various political factions. We've seen the Democratic study group has put out a mandate of what has to happen to have it just exactly their way. We have people with strong - feel very strongly on our side. And so this we expected.
We expected members of Congress who have strong convictions on how to approach this problem to weigh in, and we expected editorial comment. We expected, as I say, some of the slings and the arrows. But I just have a comforting feeling after two or three days now that if I do my job right, and that is to facilitate - help facilitate the negotiations, and then we can get a bipartisan agreement, and then I can go to the American people and say, ''Look, we've all had to give or take a little on this, but this agreement is going to be good for future generations, it's going to be good for the economy, it's going to be good for jobs.'' Then people will say, ''Look, we support the President.''
Q. Mr. President?
A. Yes?
 
Process of Reaching Decision
Q. Can you help us through your thinking just a little bit, and was there one particular moment when you realized you were going to have these campaign promises played back at you all day, and --
A. The minute I - the minute I decided that we would go forward on a - on a joint statement, which I felt was necessary to get the budget process moving - but I'd had a preview of coming attractions, because when we said no preconditions, it wasn't - maybe that wasn't the exact word - but no preconditions, arrows started flying. And I understand this. I've been in the political wars. But I am also President, and I've got to try now to look at the big picture and the welfare of this country, and put it ahead of my own strongly held preferences and everything else. And that's exactly what's happening. And the process has started to move forward as a result of that statement, with a seriousness that I applaud.
Q. Mr. President --
Q. Can you talk a little bit about what it is you feel that you needed --
A. Is this a follow-up - third follow-up?
Q. No, second. But could you tell us a little bit about what led you to believe that that statement was necessary? Was there some moment of epiphany? Was there any particular bit of data that --
A. You mean, did I suddenly get hit with the lightning? No, I got suddenly - I suddenly was presented with the fact from Democrats and Republicans and our three able negotiators, in whom I have tremendous confidence, we've got to do something to get the process going forward. But I don't recall any - because I'm not changing my view on taxes. I'm just saying what's - what we my - you know, what's - everything's on the table. We may have to do something here. And - but if I were going to go back and say, ''Do it my way,'' we'd figure out a way that would be somewhat less controversial than this approach has been. Yes?
Q. Mr. President, if it was so comforting and good for the country, why didn't you do it a year ago?
A. Because we've got a problem that is of far greater magnitude today because we've had a much slower economy than anybody predicted, and that has meant revenue shortfalls. And that means bigger budget deficits. And that means more burden for future generations of Americans and unacceptably high interest rates. And so that is why I --
Q. Are you saying the economy, then, is in some kind of trouble now that these problems are --
A. I'm saying the economy is sluggish, and I think a deficit package that takes care -that is seen to be a real one will have an ameliorating effect on that and, hopefully, will result in lower interest rates and thus have a more vibrant, a more robust economy. Yeah?
 
Outlook on NATO's Function
Q. You talked about the next NATO summit as a milestone. Next Friday, what are we going to see? Are we going to see a totally different NATO? How different will it be?
A. No, but we're going to see a NATO that makes very clear to the world, one, that it's purely defensive, and two, that it has a broadened agenda beside just military, building on Article II of the NATO document, the founding document. That's what you'll see. And I can't help you with the details because we obviously haven't even met yet.
Q. Will there be any American proposals there on NATO --
A. Well, I was asked the other day at a meeting with some foreign journalists whether there would be - I thought - I don't know if they used the word bombshells, but big surprises. I don't anticipate that, but let's wait and see what happens when we get there. But I don't - our - the NATO goal at this juncture should be to convince President Gorbachev that a reconstituted NATO, with Germany as a full member, is not a threat to the Soviet Union but rather is a - provides stability for Europe and thus will guarantee the continuance of the longest peace that Europe has had in its history. Frank, and then Maureen.
 
Public's View of New Taxes
Q. Mr. President, you're a great student of the American electorate. Have you concluded that the American public is more willing to consider and accept new taxes to deal with the deficit?
A. Not particularly. If you say to a guy, ''Do you want to pay more taxes?'' I haven't found anybody that would say that. But I think if we do our job properly and they understand the magnitude of the problem at hand in terms of this deficit, and then we make a proposal that is fair on the revenue side, on the spending side, and then on the reform side so that we don't get in this mess again - and I'm going to restrain myself from putting the blame on Congress - because it's hard to constrain spending so we need some reform, then I think if they see all three of these things and they see it's fair, that people will support this.
Q. Would you under any circumstances consider increasing income tax rates?
A. I've said and told the leaders that I'm not going to go into the details. They are not going into the details of what they will or won't accept. And the only way to accomplish a negotiation is to keep faith with that approach, and they are doing that, Republicans as well as Democrats. So I'm not going to go into the details.
Q. Income taxes are on the table, too?
A. I'm not saying what's on or off. I've made my statements on that, and I'm just going to go forward. I've got preferences, strongly held preferences that people are familiar with, but I'm not going to reiterate them, because more important than my posturing or protecting from arrows coming from one direction is getting a deal that's fair and good for the American people. Yeah, Maureen? Then we'll go to the back. The middle. Sorry.
Q. No, right.
Q. Back. Back.
 
Circumstances for Tax Pledge
Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you can try to explain today why you made the no new taxes promise in the first place. At the time, the deficit was absolutely horrendous, the savings and loan situation was absolutely horrendous, and most people greeted your promise with a fair amount of cynicism, saying taxes were eventually going to be needed to bring down the deficit. Can you sort of blame people for now --
A. No, I don't want to blame anybody --
Q. No, I'm just saying can you blame people for looking back and saying, ''Well, maybe he didn't really mean it the whole time?''
A. I can understand people saying that. I think it's wrong, but I can understand it. I'm presented with new facts. I'm doing like Lincoln did, think anew. And I'm thinking anew. I've still got the principles that underlie my political philosophy and haven't changed my view about whether - you know - taxes. But we've got a major problem facing this country. And I have the responsibility, leading the Executive Branch, to get things moving to get a solution. And the budget deficit is bigger, far bigger. I thought I could do a better job on getting spending down and perhaps getting the reforms of the budget process that I also talked about. So we're not talking about - just in the campaign talking about one aspect, I was talking about reform, I was talking about spending constraints. And not having everything go exactly my way, now we've got to address ourselves to a worse problem, Maureen, than any of us visualized back then. Yeah, Owen and then John.
Q. Could I follow up for a minute?
Q. Mr. President, throughout the '88 campaign --
A. I'll come back.
 
Taxes and Economic Growth
Q. -- you kept saying, and this was a quote: ''The surest way to kill economic growth in this country is to raise taxes.'' Now you're telling us that the reason you're thinking anew about raising taxes is to make sure that you sustain economic growth, and yet you also told us that you're not changing your views about taxes. Exactly what are your views about taxes and what are --
A. Wait till you see the agreement that comes out. That will be my views as to what has to happen - hopefully within a month -of 1990. That will be my views faced with a problem very different than the problem facing the Presidency in the end of 1988.
Q. Well, do you believe that taxes kill economic growth or do you believe that higher taxes --
A. I think taxes wrongly applied can kill economic growth. And yes, I do think that. So I think we've got to be very careful as to how we get this formula to see that we don't kill off economic growth. You've got to look at the overall gross national product when you talk about that, too. Q. Mr. President?
Q. Why didn't you say that during the campaign then?
A. Well, I don't think anybody did such a good penetrating job of questioning - and because the problem is different, the problem is quite different, Owen, today than it was then. Yeah, Tom? And then John. Now, Tom and then John. Patience is what --
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
A. Yes, Tom?
 
Political Deal on Taxes
Q. Some members of Congress and some members of your own staff are saying that your three able negotiators, as you just described them, have signaled one important possible deal, and that is if you - if the Democrats will give you your capital gains tax cut, you're prepared to go along with eliminating the bubble on the high end of the tax rate scale. Is that a fair --
A. We're going to leave all - no it's not a fair - and I'm not sure your dope is correct, either. But the - I just don't want to violate this concept of confidentiality while we're in the negotiating stage, and so I can't respond to it. But I wouldn't put too much trust in that one.
 
Disavowal by Republicans
Q. Mr. President, if your statement here this morning represents your latest thinking, why is it that a whole block of conservative Republicans have already disavowed your position, considering it a tacit request that, you know, taxes will be increased?
A. Well, for the same reason that that -that same response occurred in 1982, John. And we have people who feel very strongly on this question, and I'm one of them, but I've got to make the case for the broader - addressing ourselves at this problem here. But I can understand that.
Q. It doesn't give you any pause that this fall you're going to be out campaigning for Republican candidates who disagree with you on taxes --
A. No.
Q. -- abortion, and perhaps other issues?
A. No, we've already had - we've always had differences with me on all those issues. One way or another, one side or another, but we also have a matrix of a party that is opposed to tax-and-spend, who wants to constrain spending, and who wants reform. And I still feel a fundamental part of that, even though we're talking now about an agreement that will hopefully cover all three aspects of that. If it - if it doesn't, there won't be an agreement, I guess. Yeah?
Q. Mr. President - Secretary - uh -President --
A. You have a message for me? This is going to work out, don't worry about it.
 
Pressure to Aid Soviet Union
Q. Yesterday, the Secretary of State, Mr. Baker, seemed to duck questions that encompassed two of your dilemmas. One is the specter of taxes, but the other is pressure from the allies, which you'll see in NATO and then again in Houston, to help the Soviet Union, to give them some - actually more than technical aid. Have you changed your thinking? Are you moving towards some sort of agreement with the allies?
A. We have some differences in the alliance on this question. You're talking about on -just strictly the aid to the Soviet Union? I've tried to be very frank and up-front, not only with the allies but with the Soviets on the difficulties we have at this juncture, because there has got to be economic reform there, market reform and all kinds of changes that I believe Gorbachev wants to see take place. But they have to be in place for the United States to go forward.
Then we have a political agenda that we've tried to be very frank about. Secretary Baker has presented it in considerable detail to Mr. Shevardnadze, and I had a chance to touch on it with President Gorbachev.
And you see, it is hard for the American people to say, ''Why put X billions of dollars of money into the Soviet economy when it's not reformed, when they're spending 18 percent of their gross national product on military, and when they're spending an estimated $5 billion in Cuba?'' We have - some of our allies might not be as concerned about that last point as we are. I'm very concerned about it.
So, we want to try to be of assistance in reform. We can do a lot in terms of helping institutionally. The E.B.R.D., in which we are a partner - a participant now, has in place some - a facility for future lending. But I don't want to misrepresent this to our allies, nor to the Soviets. And that's why I say we've got difficulties with this that perhaps transcend the difficulties that others have.
Q. You will not oppose the allies giving direct aid, though?
A. Well, I want to talk to them about it, but I don't think we should - we should tell Mr. Kohl what his lending policy, or finance policy should be. It's understanding - he's a neighbor, they've got quite different problems with the Soviet Union than we do. But normally it's best to have the alliance act in concert. And I expect we'll be talking about this not only at Houston, but perhaps at the Summit at NATO.
Q. Mr. President?
A. Yeah?
Q. Do your believe that we reporters are being somewhat naive when we suggest in our stories that --
A. Yeah, because I didn't recognize you, I recognized him. I'll come back to it, Frank.
Q. O.K., thank you.
A. Go ahead.
 
Sluggish U.S. Economy
Q. Oh, O.K. A senior economic adviser in the last Administration was fond of telling us that economic expansions don't die, bad policies kill them. Now that you're admitting that the economy is growing sluggish enough that tax revenue increases are needed, what policies went wrong? Why do we need this budget agreement so badly now?
A. In theory, I'm not sure I disagree with that. In practice, provided everything is kept in proper perspective in terms of the total G.N.P., a revenue increase would not kill off economic growth. We've got to see what the size of it is, what form it takes, what -whether it's accompanied by incentives for growth - something I'm very much interested in. So, you can't look at one piece of the package at this point as we're talking about solving a major deficit problem. And you also have to consider the total size of the deficit as it relates to our - to our economy.
Q, Well, sir, what I was asking is what went wrong? Why is it necessary now? Is this proof --
A. Yeah. I think we've got slower economic growth than had been anticipated, and thus fewer revenues, thus a bigger deficit. We have a law requiring us to get the deficit down to certain levels. And so you've got a combination: the discipline that Gramm-Rudman-Hollings causes, and economic growth not being as robust as we predicted. And that is why we've got to do something right now. Frank, yeah?
 
Public and Campaign Pledges
Q. Mr. President, in your research of what's happened to others, have you concluded that we're naive to suggest that the public takes campaign promises seriously?
A. No. I think people are - people are smarter than a lot of us think they are, including me, and I think they're fair. And I go back to the experiences of previous people that have been in this office who say one thing in a campaign, come in and keep their - keep that pledge, if you're talking about taxes, for quite a while, and then see that there's an enormous problem facing the nation that requires a bipartisan answer. And if I could - if I had control of this Congress, both houses, we might not even be talking about this today, but there's a different feeling here, and I've got to see the country go forward. And I've got to take the heat that comes from certain quarters, political and other, and I'm prepared to do that because I think I'm on the right track and I think, in the final analysis, the American people will understand that.
Q. And you think the public understands this and takes this into account when they hear campaign pledges?
A. Well, I've seen - I've seen polling figures that indicate that. But I don't want to -I don't want to suggest that all politicians are cynical. Certainly when I was making -making comments of that nature, I was convinced that I could stay the course, and we did for a long time and we may now. But let's see where we go on this negotiation, because more important than how people look at what I've said is what happens to the economy, what happens to jobs, what happens to economic growth. So, when you - when you make a change that people see as a dramatic shift, you've got to batten down the hatches and take the heat.
But I really - I'm not trying to misrepresent my position. I feel comfortable about that because I've gone back and done a little research and seen these firestorms come and go, people who feel just as strongly on one side or another of an issue as I do and haven't gotten their way exactly. That's the American system, and I've got to work with it. Congress can - they can go out - everybody up there can go out and take a position, but it's only the President that has the responsbility for - you know, for the whole Executive Branch approach to it. Yeah? A couple of more and then I'm going.
Q. Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, how do you explain to the country why you're treating this as essentially a Washington insider's game right now? Why not explain to the public what your list of priorities are within the spending and tax issues? Are there no longer any lines to be drawn in the sand based on your convictions on these areas?
A. Yeah, and they will be drawn in the negotiations. But then I'd - I'm going to do exactly what you're talking about. I'm going to tell the American people why this bipartisan agreement, which I'm still hopeful we'll get, is essential to the national interest. Carl?
 
Q. The Republicans have gotten a lot of mileage in the last several elections out of what the Democrats think has been shameless demagoguery on the tax issue. By assuming that you get this bipartisan agreement, haven't you basically undercut that argument for your party? Hasn't your party now lost that issue?
A. Some will say so but not if I go out and do my part and if I remind them of history. Take a good look at the reaction in 1982, and it didn't have that kind of an adverse effect.
Q. Mr. President?
A. Sarah? Sarah, you thought I'd never --
 
Cutting Back Funds for NATO
Q. Thank you. Here's a way, sir, I think you can solve your problem. Research shows -you're going to NATO and you're going to try to reform it - but research shows that you can save $150 billion to $160 billion by cutting out the support that we give to other foreign countries by preparing for their defense of Europe. Now why, in the name of God, don't you cut down the spending that you're putting on NATO when we're really paying this for other countries that are going to a summit with you?
A. Because I believe that a strong NATO is in the national security interests of the United States. I think it is in our interest that Europe has kept the peace for 40-some years, that it is going more and more the democratic route, and we have a stake in it. Every taxpayer in the United States has a stake in world peace, and that's why I feel as I do about it. Last one.
 
Son's Role in S.&L. Scandal
Q. Mr. President, going back to the S.&L. scandal, your son Neil, has been involved in one of those failed S.&L.'s in Colorado, and I'm wondering if you've discussed this issue with him. Are you convinced that he is not guilty of any wrongdoing, and are you convinced also that a government that you head will be able to fairly investigate his role?
A. Yes to your last question. And I have -what dad wouldn't? - full confidence in the integrity and honor of my son. And I will stay out of anything to do with the investigation, but this is a fine young man. Everyone that knows him and saw him testify feels he's a fine young man. And - but yet, the system's got to go forward. And I convinced it - I'm convinced that it - if he has done something wrong, the system will so state. And if it hasn't, I hope it's fair enough to say, Hey, the boy did nothing wrong.
Q. Have you discussed this issue with him?
A. Only in that broad parental way, but making clear - and he would be the last to ask me in any way to get involved in any side or the other. I do think that those who allege misconduct ought to speak up and say what it is.
But it's not been easy for him. He's probably the most sensitive of our four boys -maybe second most sensitive. I can't quantify this for you with all four of them. But he's a good kid. And it's not easy. He's held his head up. He, too, has taken a few shots on this. But he's had some good defenders from both sides of the aisle. And the system is going to work, whether it's the President's son or somebody else, and to suggest that it doesn't, undermines the basic integrity of the American process, the American system. But it's not easy for him, but he'll do O.K. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President --
A. The last one. Sandy, last one, and then I've got to go.
Jessica, you don't get one today.
Q. O.K.
Q. Mr. President, have you seen the Marion Barry tape, and what's your reaction --
A. I thought I'd get asked that, and I am simply not going to get into that matter. It is not appropriate. It's a matter for, you know, in the courts. And please forgive me for not commenting on that one. Thank you all very much.
Q.-- family leave, Mr. President?
A. Yes.
Q. When?
Q. Today?
Q. Today?
A. I haven't gotten it yet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 



748 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: As Mandela Stumps for Sanctions, South Africa Debates Them

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, June 29

 BODY:
Nelson Mandela's plea for Western countries to maintain economic sanctions against South Africa has galvanized the debate over their effectiveness in hastening the end of apartheid.
It is increasingly apparent that the cumulative damage of sanctions will be difficult for a post-apartheid government to correct. But many whites here say that sanctions have outlived their intended purpose - to shock the Government into change - and that their economic impact has been overrated.
Many South African blacks, on the other hand, value such measures as symbols of international support for their struggle, though the sanctions hurt their incomes more than those of their white employers. 
Frederik van Zyl Slabbert, a liberal white who quit Parliament to promote more direct dialogue between whites and blacks, described the debate on sanctions as ''a quagmire of confusion, half-truths, platitudes, provocation and deception.''
''It is also riddled with laudable intentions frustrated by reality,'' said Mr. Slabbert, speaking last week in Port Elizabeth. He added that the argument would endure, ''if only because of its ability to generate more heat than light.''
 
Opponents Are Derided
Some blacks who question the efficacy of sanctions, like the Zulu leader, Chief Mangosuthu Gatsha Buthelezi, have been vilified as collaborators.
''It is automatically assumed,'' Ismail Lagardien wrote in The Sowetan, the largest black newspaper, ''that if someone is opposed to economic sanctions against South Africa, this person is in favor of apartheid, white domination and capitalism. On the other hand, the person who supports the call for sanctions is seen as sound of mind and character, and most definitely part of the liberation struggle.''
The white minority Government fueled the argument by initially dismissing the effect of sanctions, even while it enacted a law declaring it a crime to publicly advocate the curbs.
''They would not make it illegal if it didn't hurt,'' said Max Sisulu, chief economist for the African National Congress.
More recently, officials have conceded that sanctions restricted growth and limited access to foreign loans. Because of sanctions, Finance Minister Barend du Plessis said, ''we lost a few yards in the 100-meter race.''
 
Shrinking of Economy
A study released in May by the Investor Responsibility Research Center in Washington said sanctions had cost South Africa between $15 billion and $27 billion. It estimated that the bation's economy is 20 percent to 35 percent smaller today than it would have been without restrictions on investment capital and the need to produce costly substitutions of imports. But the study also found South Africa much less vulnerable to sanctions than it was 10 or 20 years ago.
South Africa's acquired ability to live with sanctions has become conspicuous in its foreign trade, which accounts for at least 55 percent of the gross domestic product. The latest trade figures suggest that South Africa will run a surplus of $2 billion this year. Moreover, the nation has found other markets and investors to replace those lost from the United States.
The Trade and Industry Minister, Kent Durr, reported in Parliament last week that foreign companies planned to invest billions of dollars in South Africa in the next six months, with nearly $1.7 billion going into the country's automobile industry. Mr. Durr did not say where the money would come from, but West Germany and Japan have filled the vacuum left by departing auto makers from the United States.
In a meeting with foreign journalists in February, Chris Stals, the governor of the South African Reserve Bank, observed that economic sanctions fell into three categories - trade boycotts, disinvestment and the withdrawal of loans. Only the last had been devastating, Mr. Stals said.
After foreign banks called in loans in 1985, $12 billion flowed out of the country. But some Western economists attributed this not to sanctions but to a loss of investor confidence created by unrest in the black townships, Flow of Rands Prevented ''Since 1985, we've had to run the economy on a cash basis,'' Mr. du Plessis told foreign journalists. ''It's the equivalent of a household trying to raise its standard of living without access to a banking facility.''
But when Western companies stopped doing business in South Africa, Mr. Stals said no factories were closed and little money was lost because the South African rand was kept inside the country, with only the right to use it bought and sold abroad as the so-called ''financial rand.''
''In terms of the balance of payments, disinvestment had little effect,'' he said.
Mr. Stals noted that some South African corporations profited from disinvestment by buying foreign subsidiaries at low prices. ''It led to a bigger concentration of economic power into the hands of the few conglomerates,'' he said.
Where disinvestment has hurt is in disrupting access to new technology and investment from former parent companies.
 
'Hurts Apartheid More'
Some proponents of sanctions now concede that the besieged economy's inability to create any new jobs has left more blacks unemployed, but say the price must be paid.
''Yes, we recognize that sanctions hurt the blacks, but it hurts apartheid more,'' Max Sisulu said.
A survey of 1,400 blacks released by the Chamber of Mines a year ago found that 82 percent opposed sanctions.
Sanctions remain significant in bolstering the morale of those who confront apartheid daily, but they also figure in the domestic political maneuvering that is preceding the negotations proposed by President F. W. de Klerk on the country's future. By influencing the schedule for the lifting of sanctions, the African National Congress has a weapon to wield against the Government and black rivals like Chief Buthelezi.
Mr. Mandela, the African National Congress leader whose world tour has been aimed in part at preserving sanctions, has said removing them too soon could make the Government complacent about the gradual pace of change.
 
Effect on the Future
But in his recent visit to Western Europe, Mr. de Klerk spread a message that sanctions were unnecessary since he was busy dismantling apartheid. He and his supporters contend that repealing the curbs would give him tangible evidence to prove to nervous whites that dismantling apartheid can benefit them, too.
Whatever the future of sanctions, their stunting of economic opportunity and employment seems bound to plague a post-apartheid South Africa.
''The whole idea of sanctions was to signal to South Africans the displeasure of the U.S. Congress over political events in this country,'' said Prof. Carl F. Noffke, director of the Institute of American Studies at Rand Afrikaans University. ''But you can't continue with that signal unless you want to destroy a country.''
Mr. Mandela has proposed large-scale foreign investment to rebuild the economy, once apartheid is ended. But Mr. Stals said investment funds withdrawn by banks from South Africa would probably end up in Eastern Europe.
Mr. Slabbert, speaking in Port Elizabeth last week, said: ''The most dangerous illusion created by the sanctions debate is that when de Klerk and Mandela agree to end the call for sanctions, untold millions of investment capital will pour into South Africa. Nothing of the sort will happen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN COS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON; BUTHELEZI, MANGOSUTHU GATSHA; WREN, CHRISTOPHER S NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (93%); MANGOSUTHU GATSHA BUTHELEZI (67%); 



749 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Give Gorbachev Credit, With Credits

 BODY:
Wisely, Chancellor Kohl of Germany and President Mitterrand of France want the West to pump $15 billion of short-term credits and long-term aid into the Soviet economy - before it collapses and brings down Mikhail Gorbachev. With the backing of the European Community, they'll seek a contribution from President Bush at the economic summit meeting in Houston on July 9.
If Mr. Bush wishes to be as wise, he'll add American credits to the cause. 
Western aid can't possibly substitute for what the Soviets must do for themselves. Nor can the Western aid guarantee reform. But properly targeted, it can make a difference that would benefit East and West.
Opponents of aid, like Defense Secretary Cheney, worry that it will help subsidize Soviet defense spending and support for Cuba and Afghanistan. Other critics argue that it would only give Mr. Gorbachev an excuse to postpone reforms.
Of course, money is fungible and loans made for desirable purposes can free resources for undesired ones. But the aid called for here won't be nearly enough to forestall further Soviet defense and foreign aid cuts. And Western aid also would demonstrate to Mr. Gorbachev's domestic opponents that the West supports perestroika. What effect this support will have on the Soviet economy depends on how well the donors target it.
President Bush has been careful not to slam the door to the vault. He is ''perfectly prepared'' to discuss aid with the Group of Seven. But Mr. Bush seems willing to provide only technical assistance - expert advice on topics like setting up credit markets and a private housing industry and training Soviet managers and accountants. He can do more.
Credits to help Moscow import consumer goods, for example, would pay short-run political dividends. Such credits could help slake the thirst for the better things in life until the Soviet economy begins to produce higher-quality goods. And imports would absorb some of the rubles that the Soviet people have stashed away, lacking anything worth buying.
Longer-term loans can add to the pool of investment the Soviets need. And they needn't retard reforms. One way to help markets along is to set up commercial banks as joint ventures and give them matching funds to lend to new private enterprises. That would keep the money out of the hands of backward-looking Moscow ministries and state enterprises. Such banks could finance demonstration projects, like refrigerator trucks for wholesalers to deliver produce to distant markets.
West Germany has already committed itself to put up $2.9 billion in short-term credits, and is prepared to do much more. The U.S. and Japan would each have to put up at least as much for the $15 billion goal to be met. But Germany's partners in Europe correctly want to study Soviet needs before agreeing to specific figures. The U.S. should do the same.
But Mr. Bush can't afford to let Western Europe proceed alone with aid, leaving the U.S. on the sidelines while Europe's future is decided. Nor is it sensible to leave Mr. Gorbachev in the lurch as the Soviets shift from a command economy to freer markets. The President surely should wish Western aid to do the most good. To accomplish this, he'll have to ante up in Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (54%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR); MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); 



750 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: All We Croatians Want Is Democracy

BYLINE: By Franjo Tudjman; Franjo Tudjman is President of the Republic of Croatia. His conservative, nationalist party recently won a majority in the Croatian parliament.

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Yugoslavia

 BODY:
Last month the Croatian people, sick and tired of Communist oppression, joined the peoples of Eastern Europe in looking away from Communism and toward a democratic future. We have set the goal of a Croatian society that, like the United States, is based on political and economic freedom, respect for human rights, the protection of individual liberties, an independent judiciary and a government that is truly ''of the people, by the people, and for the people.''
There are those, however, even in America, who fear any measure of Croatian democracy. This surge of national identity and authority will, some say, lead to the breakup of Yugoslavia, to civil war, or both. 
These fears are misplaced. Freedom and self-determination do not threaten stability; repression and tyranny do. To reject Croatia's transition to a democracy on the pretext of preserving regional stability only delays the inevitable - and heightens the risk of regional chaos and violence at some date in the future.
The democratization of Croatia will lead neither to the breakup of Yugoslavia nor to civil war. These threats represent a last desperate ploy by the central Communist government in Belgrade to win Western neutrality on the issue of Croatian democratization.
Belgrade has learned and implemented the lesson of Lithuania: rather than condemning democratization, the Communists argue that the price of democratization is higher than the West should be willing to pay. This crude bit of disinformation threatens to undermine Western support for the emergence of democracy, based on free and fair elections, in a Communist country.
In fact, if Belgrade does not cause a civil war by military intervention, there will be no civil war. Croatia is wealthier and more productive than all but one of the other Yugoslav republics. That republic, Slovenia, has held elections recently that also resulted in a mandate for greater autonomy.
It is up to Belgrade whether Yugoslavia will continue to profit from a confederation including Croatia, or whether Yugoslavia will forgo a relationship that remains crucial for the economic stability of the other republics.
It is we, the Croatian people, who have risked our lives to put forward a democratic party and to vote our conscience. And it is we who continue to risk our lives in defiance of totalitarian Communism. If Belgrade chooses to attack us for choosing freedom, we remain prepared to defend our liberty with our blood. It is the height of arrogance for the U.S. to dismiss Croatian democracy on the ground that regional stability is at stake, when we Croatians are willing to put our lives at stake for our freedom and dignity.
The end of Communist rule in Croatia will not result in a domestic bloodbath, as the Belgrade propaganda asserts; there will be no purges against Serbians or retribution against Communist officials and their families.
And I know well the temptation of retribution. Three years ago, when I was 65 years old and after the Communists had sent me to prison twice, I learned the names of the Communist soldiers who shot and killed my father and stepmother in cold blood. These men live today in the Republic of Croatia. For more than four decades, I believed the lie that my parents had been killed by Nazi collaborators. Similar ghastly stories are common in Croatia.
The Croatian Democratic Union and I were elected to end such tyranny. And, despite 45 years of brutal Communist rule, and despite the association of many people with these oppressors, I vow to allow no reprisals in a newly democratic Croatia. I will work to build a society which is a vibrant marketplace of ideas and initiative, where disagreement and debate are signs of strength.
The Communist soldiers who murdered my parents will be judged by God alone. I no longer yearn for revenge; the murderous, inhumane system that killed my parents and tens of thousands like them has been judged for its crimes - in free and fair elections - by the Croatian people. That system has been decapitated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: CROATIA (99%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA (YUGOSLAVIA)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); 

PERSON: TUDJMAN, FRANJO (PRES)



751 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Here's a New York Site for Homeless Housing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Two years after the New York State Legislature set aside $85 million to build permanent housing for homeless families in New York City, the Cuomo administration says it has grown impatient because the money has not been spent, and it is threatening to give some of it to suburban counties'' (news article, June 6).
Your report is extremely upsetting to the members of Manhattan Community Board 4. Not only is it a virtual crime that this money is not yet spent, but it is also terribly ironic.
Mayor David N. Dinkins said today that the trouble in constructing this housing is a result of the problems the city has identifying suitable sites acceptable to the neighboring communities.
Community Board 4 has not only repeatedly endorsed the concepts of affordable housing and housing for the homeless, but has also approved numerous sites for such housing. The Clinton Urban Renewal Area (west of 10th Avenue, between 51st and 55th Streets) has been lying vacant for 20 years. During this period, Community Board 4 has, by acclamation, voted to use much of this area for affordable, mixed-use housing and development. Housing for the city's homeless population has repeatedly and enthusiastically been approved by this board, as long as it was rationally planned and integrated with the community.
Community Board 4 hearings have been held on these issues. We welcome permanent housing for the homeless. Give us your tired, your hungry, your huddled masses. We welcome them.
 
PETER OBLETZ
Chairman, Community Board 4
 New York, June 7, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); MANHATTAN COMMUNITY BOARD (92%); NEW YORK STATE LEGISLATURE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (73%); COUNTIES (72%); SUBURBS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: OBLETZ, PETER HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 



752 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Newsprint Recycling Becomes Law for Papers in Suffolk

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, L.I., June 29

 BODY:
The Suffolk County Executive today signed the most restrictive local newsprint-recycling law in the nation. It requires newspapers with weekly circulations of 20,000 or more that are printed or sold in the county to publish only on recycled paper by the end of 1996.
In signing the law, the County Executive, Patrick G. Halpin, said it would help solve Long Island's garbage crisis by creating a market for recycled newspapers. But he warned that the law could be onerous for the papers and said he would appoint a committee to recommend amendments to it. 
''I believe that recycling is the most cost-effective and efficient way to dispose of solid waste,'' Mr. Halpin said in an interview. ''I hope this law spurs the state and Federal Government to adopt similar legislation, because communities are drowning in their garbage.''
The law will affect all the large daily newspapers sold in the county, including Newsday, The New York Times, The New York Post, The Daily News and USA Today. It will take effect Dec. 31, 1991, and, in its current form, sets a timetable for the papers' gradual shift to recycled newsprint so that by the end of 1996, the papers have to be printed entirely on newsprint made of 40 percent recycled fibers. The law sets a $500-a-day fine for violators.
A spokesman for Newsday, which was the most vocal opponent of the measure when it was passed by the County Legislature at the end of May, said the paper would reserve judgment on the law until the review committee makes its recommendations. Mr. Halpin has promised to put a representative from Newsday on the committee. ''Newsday will participate and do whatever's necessary to cooperate with the group to see where this all goes,'' said the paper's spokesman, Sam Ruinsky.
But other representatives of the newspaper industry said they objected to a law passed when New York's newspapers had already signed a voluntary agreement with the state under which they would gradually shift to recycled newsprint by the year 2000.
''We've been urging a voluntary program rather than a legislative approach,'' said Joseph Lorfano, a spokesman for the American Newspaper Publishers Association. ''Legislation may in effect be a hindrance rather than a help.''
At The New York Times Company, Nancy Nielsen, a spokeswoman, said, ''Since the state has initiated a coordinated program, attempts by individual counties to legislate their own timetables for recycled newsprint are confusing and counterproductive.'' She said The Times uses 8 percent recycled fiber.
The law's sponsor in the Legislature, Maxine S. Postal, Democrat of Amityville, said today that she recognized that the measure might be too restrictive and that she would be open to amending it on the suggestion of the review committee.
The committee will discuss the possibilities of altering the formula for determining the amount of recycled fiber required; of granting exemptions to newspapers that find, for a valid reason - like a lack of available newsprint - that they cannot adhere to the law, and of working out a different system of penalties.
 
Amendments, but Keeping Teeth
''The intent of creating the commission is to keep the teeth in the bill, to make it a law that's important to the environment and not devastating to the economy,'' Ms. Postal said.
Environmental groups said the measure would promote recycling and prod the owners of newspapers and paper mills into spending money to build and retool mills to recycle paper. Many newspapers have said that although there is enough old newsprint to go around, the paper mills they use are not yet equipped to process it and the papers themselves are using all the available recycled newsprint. Paper companies estimate that it costs $500 million to build a new plant that can recycle paper, and $100 million to retool an old one.
''This was a very important action by Suffolk County to let the investors know that there's going to be a market for the product they're putting money into,'' said Gordon Gibson, executive director of Citizens for a Livable Environment and Recycling, a Huntington group.
And James L. Larocca, president of the Long Island Association, Long Island's largest business group, said he found Mr. Halpin's decision ''a livable compromise.''
 
'A Unique Local Regulation'
''We are always concerned when Long Island achieves the status of being the first to enact a unique local regulation,'' he said. ''But this seems to be a good resolution.''
Newspapers around the nation have been wrestling with the question of how to incorporate increasing amounts of old newsprint into their operations. Several states, including Wisconsin, have passed laws similar to that in Suffolk County.
In New York State, 64 newspapers, including Newsday and New York City's major dailies, have signed the agreement with the state, in which they have promised to gradually increase the amount of recycled paper they use, and ultimately to use 40 percent recycled newsprint by the year 2000.
But the agreement carries no penalties, only the threat of new legislation if the newspapers fail to adhere to it. And, unlike the Suffolk law, it does not mandate the amount of recycled fiber to be used in each sheet of newsprint; it merely requires that 40 percent of all paper used be recycled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWSDAY INC (94%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; NEWSPRINT; NEWSPAPERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (93%); NEWSPRINT (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); COUNTIES (90%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH; HALPIN, PATRICK G (COUNTY EXEC) PATRICK G HALPIN (79%); 



753 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Pain vs. Gain in Jersey Tax Increases

BYLINE: BY ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 29

 BODY:
The tax overhaul that begins to take effect in New Jersey on Sunday is as sweeping a change as any state has tried in recent years, but economists, policy makers and business executives disagree on whether the new taxes will help or hurt the state's economic performance.
No single part of the tax package is likely to permanently damage the state's economy or chase corporations from New Jersey, they say.
There is general agreement that in the short run, the new income and sales taxes may make it more difficult for New Jersey businesses to recruit top executives and more expensive for companies to buy goods and services.
But the long-range impact of the entire package is sharply debated. Some economists agree with Gov. Jim Florio, who has said that educational and fiscal benefits made possible by the new tax structure will outweigh the pain inflicted by higher taxes. Sending a Message? Others said the message borne by the taxes may be more important to the state's economic future than the taxes themselves. 
''Even a relatively small tax increase can discourage investors by signalling that a community no longer cares much about economic development,'' said Doug Ross, president of the Corporation for Economic Development, which helps states and cities expanding economically.
Governor Florio has tried to quell business worries by noting that the package approved last week by the slimmest of margins does not include direct new taxes on businesses, like an increase in the corporate profits tax.
The package will increase the state income tax rate for families with incomes over $150,000 or individuals making over $75,000 to 7 percent from 3.5 percent for income over those amounts. And beginning Sunday, the sales tax will rise to 7 percent from the current 6 percent and be expanded to cover more items, including residential and commercial telephone bills.
Harvey C. Fisher, a special assistant to State Treasurer Douglas C. Berman, acknowledged that the various increases will hurt New Jersey businesses in the short run. But he said businesses understand that New Jersey, which this spring faced a $600 million deficit, will be restored to fiscal health by the package, which will benefit everyone.
On Monday, the Standard & Poor's Corporation, which had put New Jersey on a ''credit watch'' in March, reaffirmed the state's top AAA rating, the highest of any Northeastern state.
Mr. Fisher also said that since part of the overall package includes increased aid to cities and urban school districts, as well as property tax relief, businesses stand to gain substantially as those areas benefit.
 
Solving Fiscal Problems
''I don't believe that what has taken place so far is indicative of an anti-business climate,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''It is indicative of a state trying to solve its fiscal problems.''
Several economists interviewed tended to share the state's view about the long-range impact of such tax decisions. Mr. Ross said his organization has studied the relationship between local taxes and growth and found no direct correlation.
''If low taxes were all that mattered, Mississippi would be booming and Minnesota would be in trouble,'' he said. ''In reality, it's just the reverse.''
Steven D. Gold, the director of the State University of New York's Center for the Study of the States, recalled that when New Jersey enacted an income tax in 1976 there were predictions that the state's economy would be ruined.
''But clearly it didn't hurt the economy at all,'' he said.
The changes follow five months of aggressive moves by the new administration to force insurance companies to pay for a bailout of the state automobile insurance pool, to raise the minimum wage to one of the highest levels in the nation, and to revise pollution laws to provide for criminal charges against corporate executives.
''There's a very real danger of a sense gathering out there that New Jersey is becoming a more hostile climate in which to do business,'' said James C. Morford, vice president of government relations for the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAXES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; SALES TAX TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SALES TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (86%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); RELOCATIONS (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY HARVEY C FISHER (63%); 



754 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Almost Everybody's Playing Stomp-the-Trump

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Adrian Alberti stood not 50 feet from a giant poster of Donald J. Trump himself, the man who put his name on hotels and casinos and books and board games and - to the consternation of bankers on several continents - bonds and loan agreements.
''He caused it all himself,'' Mr. Alberti said, raising his voice to be heard over the roar from the waterfall in the Trump Tower atrium.
From the Doonesbury comic strip to ''Late Night With David Letterman'' to tourists in the shiny marble halls of his own buildings, people are reveling in reviling Mr. Trump. Some may be relieved that he arranged the loans he needed to keep control of his empire, but he remains a topic of conversation. 
Mr. Letterman, for example, poked fun at Mr. Trump's financial problems with one of his nightly Top 10 lists - ''Top Ten Signs That Trump Is in Trouble.'' No. 10 on the list was that Mr. Trump ''had the cable company disconnect Cinemax'' and No. 7 was that he ''recently asked his advisers how they thought a 'battling billionaire' character would go over on the pro wrestling circuit.''
 
Raise Those Allowances
Mr. Trump might not make it on the parental circuit. Some children are demanding bigger allowances, all because Mr. Trump's bankers are putting him on one - $450,000 a month, down from the $583,000 he spent on day-to-day necessities in May.
''If she asks,'' said Eileen Arens, referring to her 13-year-old daughter's $5-a-week allowance, ''I'll say he has to live within his budget and we have to live within ours.''
As a target of nasty jokes, Mr. Trump seems to have replaced Japanese real-estate buying in New York City. To stand-up comics who lit into that after Mitsubishi agreed to pay $846 million for a controlling interest in Rockefeller Center late last year, Mr. Trump is now good for a laugh.
 
'Get Rid of That Bum'
And not just in New York. Steve Benson, who works for The Morning News Tribune in Tacoma, Wash., drew a cartoon this month of a man in a shabby-looking suit panhandling in front of a marquee labeled Taj Mahal.
''Get rid of that bum,'' a man in a suit ordered. ''You know how important image is to Mr. Trump.''
''That is Mr. Trump,'' the doorman replied.
Mr. Benson said this week that he took aim because Mr. Trump was a universal symbol. ''There seems to be some kind of perverse satisfaction among the American public to see the great mighty ones brought to humility by their economic problems,'' he said. ''I suppose there's some kind of unexplained glee that we all have that exults in this kind of thing.''
Which is pretty much what many people in New York said about why in 1990 Mr. Trump is not perceived the way he was in 1989. Or 1988. Or 1987. Or, for that matter, any point since his first big success in Manhattan with renovations at the Commodore Hotel in the mid-1970's.
''The problem with Trump,'' said David Garth, a political campaign consultant who included Edward I. Koch among his clients, ''was when someone is where Donnie was a couple of months ago and appeared to be flaunting it, you set yourself up for a bashing when you're down. It's part of the ups and down of New York. ''
The speculation about Mr. Trump soared to near-critical mass after Forbes magazine ran a story in May under the headline ''Manhattan's favorite guessing game: how rich is Donald?'' Forbes said Mr. Trump's declining net worth was about $500 million, down from the magazine's 1989 estimate of $1.7 billion.
Soon, people were talking about Mr. Trump as an icon of the 1980's, an integral part of the real-estate boom that followed the city's brush with default in the 1970's and the subsequent deregulation of some financial markets, which fueled an unprecedented expansion on Wall Street.
Uncharacteristically for him, Mr. Trump did not return a reporter's phone call yesterday.
''Everyone wants to see him fail,'' said Libby Statham, an administrative assistant, eating her lunch by the fountain outside Mr. Trump's Plaza Hotel. ''The same thing with Michael Milken. It's a perverse kind of pleasure.'' Mr. Milken, who pioneered junk bonds at the now-defunct Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., pleaded guilty to securities fraud and conspiracy in April and agreed to pay $600 million in fines and penalties.
''I don't understand why we have to bash Trump,'' said Fred W. Friendly, the Edward R. Murrow Professor at the Columbia School of Journalism and a former president of CBS News. ''unless the city is so angry that they're willing to bash anybody. I'd like to see him survive because he's a New Yorker and New York is in trouble and we shouldn't be shooting down our public figures.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: An advertisement for the Trump book stood outside the Trump office in the Trump Tower last week, but the Trump fans were deserting the sinking Trump ship. In comic strips, on talk shows and among the less-rich, Donald J. Trump-bashing has become great sport; ''He caused it all himself,'' said Adrian Alberti, raising his voice to be heard over the roar of the waterfall during a visit to the Trump Tower atrium; ''Everyone wants to see him fail,'' said Libby Statham, as she ate lunch by the fountain outside Mr. Trump's Plaza Hotel. ''It's a perverse kind of pleasure.'' (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: MORNING NEWS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP ORGANIZATION

SUBJECT: FINANCES, PERSONAL BOARD GAMES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); WRESTLING (51%); PANHANDLING (50%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; BARRON, JAMES DONALD TRUMP (94%); DAVID LETTERMAN (70%); 



755 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
 The Government sold the largest failed savings institution under its control, Centrust of Miami, to Great Western Financial, the nation's second-largest savings and loan company. [Page 31.] ARCO settled a longstanding dispute with the I.R.S. by paying $800 million in back taxes and interest owed on Alaskan North Slope oil production. The dispute centered on the value assigned by the company to the crude oil it pumped from the North Slope. [31.] Donald Trump ousted Bruce Nobles as president of his Northeast shuttle. [31.] People are reveling in reviling Trump, from David Letterman to tourists in Trump buildings. [27.] Perrier's chairman and founder, Gustave Leven, stepped down and was replaced by the vice chairman, Jacques Vincent. The company also said it would set aside an additional $71 million to cover expenses for the recent recall. [31.] Campbell Soup plans to sell small North American operations with total annual sales of more than $300 million. The move is a further effort to cut excess capacity and raise profits. [33.] Kimberly-Clark and The New York Times Company will sell their joint interests in Spruce Falls Power and Paper, a Canadian paper mill, to Kruger of Montreal. No price was disclosed. [33.] Disney is forming a children's book publishing company to capitalize on the characters it has long licensed to publishers. [33.] Chemlawn, the largest U.S. chemical lawn-care service, has agreed to refrain from making broad safety claims. [30.]
 
 
 
The Economy
 Corporate America continued to find Wall Street soil fertile for raising new capital through the first half of 1990, but for the third straight quarter the underwriting revenue earned by Wall Street firms remained low. [31.] Sales of new single-family homes rose 0.4 percent in May, for the first gain in six months, the Commerce Department said, but high interest rates and buyer wariness continued to plague the housing industry. [32.] Prices farmers get for raw products declined 1.3 percent in June, but were still about 2.7 percent above a year earlier, the Agriculture Department said. [32.] Bush vetoed the family-leave bill, which would have guaranteed workers unpaid time off for births, adoptions or medical emergencies of family members. [9.]
 
International
 Most of the world's nations vowed to stop making ozone-depleting chemicals by the end of the century. [1.]
 Mandela's plea for Western countries to maintain sanctions against South Africa has galvanized the continuing debate over their effectiveness in hastening the demise of apartheid. [10.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Stocks edged up for a third day, carrying the Dow to 2,880.69, up 1.98, in sluggish trading. The week's gain was 23.51. [34.]
 Interest rates declined as prices of short- and long-term Treasury securities advanced. [34.]
 The dollar fell in quiet trading amid anticipation of lower U.S. interest rates. [40.]
 Gold posted its strongest one-day advance in nearly three months on the threat of mining strikes. [40.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Drawing on the principles of sexual reproduction and Darwin's theory of natural selection, a computer scientist at Stanford has patented a method for ''breeding'' computer programs as if they were tomatoes. Patents. [32.] ''Start retirement planning at age 35 to 40; let time work for you,'' a financial planner advises, noting that over time stocks do the best. Your Money. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (82%); KMB (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); BOOK PUBLISHING CO (67%); GREAT WESTERN FINANCIAL CORP (58%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (86%); SALES FIGURES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); PAPER MILLS (76%); FAMILY (76%); VETO (75%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PAPER MFG (72%); CHILDREN (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); FAMILY LEAVE (70%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (65%); SICK LEAVE (65%); BOOK PUBLISHING (65%); OZONE DEPLETION (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (75%); DAVID LETTERMAN (54%); 



756 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Pulling the Plug in a Savings Failure

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS

 BODY:
After a century in business, Otero Savings closed its doors for good last month, another casualty in the collapse of the nation's savings industry.
The story of Otero's last days, when Federal regulators shut down the failed Colorado savings and loan, selling its assets and paying off depositors quickly to prevent a panic, is one that is being repeated across the country as the Government strives to resolve the industry's crisis.
In most cases, the Government has been able to sell failed institutions to banks or other savings and loans, which typically acquire the depositors' accounts. But when bidders cannot be found, the institution is liquidated and depositors, whose individual accounts are federally insured up to $100,000, are reimbursed with Government checks.
The Government has sold or liquidated more than 200 failed savings and loans, and scores more are expected to be disposed of by the end of the year. 
Otero, one of the largest savings institutions in Colorado, was liquidated. Its closing became more dramatic than the regulators had hoped after word of the imminent closing was leaked to a local radio station, causing alarm among depositors.
At 11 A.M. on Friday, May 25, Jeanne F. McBride, an official with the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal agency responsible for the savings industry bailout, called together a team of auditors and lawyers in a Denver conference room. In the calmest voice she could manage, Ms. McBride announced that Otero, which was insolvent and had been under Government control for more than a year, would have to be closed hours ahead of schedule.
''We're going to call all the branch managers, we're going to call security, and we're going to tell them to close those doors at 2 P.M. today,'' Ms. McBride said at the time. ''We'll need to hurry.''
Rumors about Otero's fate were spreading quickly that morning in Colorado Springs, where the savings institution was based. Jittery customers had lined up at tellers' windows to empty their accounts.
The concern throughout the liquidation of Otero and other savings and loan associations is not only for the customers, but for the banking system as a whole.
In Otero's case, if the Government had been unable to reassure Otero customers that their money was safe and that they would be repaid quickly, regulators say, a run on deposits could have developed at other troubled savings associations in the area, and even at commercial banks. A Year of U.S. Control The Government actually took control of Otero in March 1989, when it became clear that its managers could not save the savings and loan. For more than a year, regulators tried to find a buyer for Otero. When none emerged, they shut it down.
When it closed, the assets on Otero's books were valued at $484 million. Yet much of the assets consisted of real estate loans on residential and commercial developments, often based on the assumption that property values would continue to rise. But with the downturn in the Colorado economy, the market value of the property fell sharply.
Accordingly, the Government estimates that it will have a shortfall of $196 million after all depositors have been paid and all of Otero's assets have been sold off. The $196 million is the projected cost to American taxpayers of Otero's failure. Investigators are also studying whether fraud may have contributed to Otero's demise. No charges have been filed.
 
Friday Closings Are Typical
Typically, a team of Government auditors and lawyers takes over an insolvent savings association when it closes on a Friday afternoon. They work through the weekend, sometimes around the clock, to review the books and insure that depositors with federally insured accounts can get their money the next week.
Otero's closing should have been routine as well. The Government had originally planned to shut it down at 5 P.M. on Friday, May 25, after customers had conducted their business for the week.
But after the local radio station learned of the Government's plan to liquidate Otero, the regulators' timetable was accelerated. News of the savings institution's demise was spreading quickly in Colorado Springs, 65 miles south of Denver.
Even though their accounts were fully insured by the Federal Government, Otero depositors were lining up at branch offices and demanding their money.
One Otero branch was left with less than $50,000 in cash, meaning that tellers would have to turn away customers if only a few more large accounts were closed. A Colorado Springs supermarket posted a notice announcing that it would refuse checks from Otero.
 
Doors Shut and Locked
Ms. McBride and the rest of the team in Denver rushed to their cars and drove to Colorado Springs.
At each of the 11 offices, they taped up notices announcing that Otero was closed. The automated teller system was shut down. Branch managers were told to close their teller windows and organize Otero's ledgers as if they were about to undergo a year-end audit. At exactly 2 P.M., the doors were shut and locked.
An investigator for the Resolution Trust Corporation, William Cobelli, began to gather documents that might shed light on whether fraud had contributed to Otero's failure. ''We want to be certain that we haven't missed anything,'' he said.
The first customer to learn of the shutdown was Darrin Zappa, an unemployed 22-year-old who had stopped by to withdraw $10 from his account to help him get through the long Memorial Day weekend.
He reacted more with sadness than anger to the news that he would have to wait until the next week for his money. There was, after all, only $71 in his account. ''Everybody here was real nice,'' he said.
 
A Rush to Prepare Checks
At Otero's nine branches, plans were readied to reimburse more than 20,000 depositors with Government checks. The checks would have to be ready by Tuesday morning, when Resolution Trust planned to reopen Otero temporarily after the long holiday weekend.
''Come hell or high water, we will get those doors open on Tuesday and we'll have those checks ready,'' said Michael Esch, one of the Resolution Trust supervisors assigned to the liquidation.
The job of reviewing the accounts and preparing thousands of checks was left to a team of agency employees led by Peter Sullivan. Like many of his colleagues, Mr. Sullivan is young, only 27. The hours required of regulators involved in the Government bailout are often grueling.
''In the past two months, I have spent one weekend at home in Denver,'' said Mr. Sullivan, who looked weary from so many nights on the road.
 
Armed Guards at the Ready
Resolution Trust employees were stationed outside Otero to act as ''public confidence'' agents - to answer questions from depositors who had just heard about the liquidation.
An armed guard stood nearby to deal with any emergency - a necessity, the R.T.C. has found. In mid-May, at the closing of a savings and loan in San Bernandino, Calif., a frantic depositor drew a knife on an agency employee, Mary Shattles, who talked to the man and calmed him down. ''They wanted me to prosecute, but I just couldn't,'' Ms. Shattles recalled. ''All that man wanted was his money.''
Although virutally all of Otero's scores of employees lost their jobs, most volunteered to pitch in over the weekend to help the regulators.
''We've been prepared for the fact that this could happen,'' said Karen Vasil, who was in charge of the safe-deposit-box department at Otero's main branch in Colorado Springs.
By late June, more than 90 percent of Otero's depositors had been paid. Resolution Trust was still trying to contact the remaining depositors by mail, urging them to claim their money, said Kevin Shields, an agency spokesman in Denver.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Shields, back to camera, a spokesman for the Resolution Trust Corporation, answered depositors' questions outside a Colorado Springs branch of Otero Savings in May after regulators closed the institution. (Bruce McAllister for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (88%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: OTERO SAVINGS (98%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (82%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (82%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



757 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: ARCO to Pay $800 Million In Tax Case

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEV, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 29

 BODY:
ARCO said today that it had settled a long-standing dispute with the Internal Revenue Service by paying $800 million in back taxes and interest owed on Alaskan oil production.
The dispute centered on the value assigned by the company to the crude oil it pumped from wells on the Alaskan North Slope. The I.R.S. contended that ARCO, also known as the Atlantic Richfield Company, had assigned the oil a value lower than it should have at that point and thereby underpaid on taxes.
ARCO said its payment, made today after two years of negotiations, is for less than half the total amount billed by the I.R.S. In July 1988, the company received a bill for $1.3 billion from the I.R.S. covering the years 1980 to 1983. Earlier this year, the company received a bill for an additional $500 million, including tax and interest, covering production from the years 1984 and 1985. 
In the early 1980's, when the value of oil rose above a certain base rate, oil companies were required to pay a ''windfall profits'' tax. If a company assigned oil a lower value at the well, it reduced the windfall-profits tax it had to pay.
A spokesman for ARCO, Albert Greenstein, said the company used one method for calculating the value of oil at the well. ''The I.R.S. had another,'' he continued, ''and we reached a settlement we consider fair.''
ARCO, the nation's eighth-largest oil company, said it had previously set aside an unspecified amount to cover the payment.
''The company is adequately reserved, and so this settlement payment we made today will have no impact on earnings,'' Mr. Greenstein said.
 
'It Might Be a Blip'
Analysts agreed. Thomas R. Samuelson, an analyst at Duff & Phelps in Chicago, said he anticipated little effect on earnings. ''It might be a blip,'' he said. ''In the oil industry, there are a lot of unusual items.''
Mr. Samuelson noted that in a settlement a few days ago, ARCO said it will collect $300 million in damages from the Southern Natural Gas Company stemming from an accident on an ARCO drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico in which seven workers were killed.
Analysts have said the I.R.S. began investigating ARCO in the mid-1980's after receiving complaints from other oil companies. During much of the 1980-83 period, analysts said, ARCO was often underpricing rivals by a cent or two a gallon at the pump. One reason for the company's advantage was that it was paying a lower windfall-profits tax than its competitors, analysts said.
 
ARCO's Previous Contention
At the time it received the original I.R.S. bill, ARCO contended that its crude-oil pricing policies conformed to ''widely held'' economic theories about pricing Alaskan crude oil.
The windfall-profits tax was enacted in 1980 at a time of rapidly rising oil prices. It was intended to insure that the Government's share of revenue would increase along with the industry's by imposing an additional tax on oil producers when crude prices surpassed a certain level. The tax was in effect from 1980 to 1985 but was made obsolete when prices dropped in 1986. It was repealed in 1988.
Other oil companies, including Standard Oil (Indiana), have settled similar windfall-profits tax disputes with the I.R.S.
 
ACQUISITION CHALLENGED
 WASHINGTON, June 29 (Special to The New York Times) - The Federal Trade Commission, in an unusual action, moved today to rescind the already-paid-for acquisition by the Arco Chemical Company of $220 million of properties belonging to the Union Carbide Corporation's Chemicals and Plastics Group.
The commission said it authorized its staff to seek a court order to unwind the transaction on both substantive antitrust grounds and because the companies failed, it contended, to follow Government pre-merger notification procedures.
The companies announced the deal, involving Carbide's worldwide urethane polyols and propylene glycols businesses, last September. They said Arco Chemical, which is 83 percent owned by ARCO, would pay the $220 million before the closing of the transaction, which was subject only to Government review, with Arco Chemical assuming all regulatory risk from possible challenge.
The Federal Trade Commission said today that it ''has reason to believe that the acquisition could substantially reduce competition'' in the production and sale of the two products, as well as potential competition in propylene oxide, a feedstock for them. Moreover, it complained that there were indications the companies had violated their agreement not to consummate the transaction without giving the commission 10 days' prior notice.
In a statement, Arco Chemical said it has been ''actively negotiating'' with the commission staff and ''will continue to deal with the commission in a good-faith effort to resolve the issues between us.'' The company said that the staff had presented the case to the commissioners a month ago and that their vote announced today was ''intended only to authorize litigation'' if the issue could not otherwise be resolved.
Commission lawyers declined to say what led the commission to contend that beneficial ownership of the chemical assets had passed to Arco Chemical.
Union Carbide officials could not be reached directly for comment, but they were reported to have predicted the deal would stand. Carbide was also said to be asserting that it made all notifications under the Hart-Scott-Rodino legislation in a timely way and that there is no precedent under these circumstances for rescinding the agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (94%); BP (LSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (95%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (94%); SOUTHERN NATURAL GAS CO (63%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO); ARCO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA; NORTH SLOPE (ALASKA)

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); DAMAGES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: LEV, MICHAEL



758 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
In the Long Run Stocks Are Better

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
''It is heartbreaking to sit down with people 63 to 65 years old and to have to tell them: You can't afford to maintain your life style now; how are you going to retire with a 40 to 50 percent cut?'' Joel S. Isaacson said at a meeting of the Greater New York Chapter of the International Society for Retirement Planning earlier this month.
''Start retirement planning at age 35 to 40; let time work for you,'' said Mr. Isaacson, a partner with Weber, Lipshie & Company, certified public accountants in New York, and director of personal financial planning for the firm.
That advice, of course, means making choices about personal finances and maintaining discipline in spending and saving, so that money can be put aside regularly to provide income in the retirement years. And it means deciding where to put that money so it will grow. 
''Time is the thing that really reduces your risk - time to ride out volatility,'' Mr. Isaacson said. He showed charts of market performances demonstrating that each $1 invested in 1926 in common stocks, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500- stock index, had grown to $535 by 1989; in intermediate-term Treasury bonds to $22 and in Treasury bills to $10. These numbers are before inflation and taxes.
The chart lines for bills and bonds are relatively smooth. For stocks the chart line is jagged, showing volatility, but over time, equities provide by far the greatest return, in part because of reinvested dividends and in part because of capital appreciation. Mr. Isaacson noted that the growth in dividends had outpaced inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index. Corporate earnings and dividend growth fed the equity profits.
The growth of $1 from 1980 through 1989 was as follows: stocks, $5.04; intermediate-term bonds, $3.08, and Treasury bills, $2.34. Because of inflation in that decade, it would have taken $1.65 in 1989 to buy as much as $1 in 1980. When only one-year periods are studied, stocks chalked up gains in 45 years and losses in 19 years; bonds were in plus territory in 58 years and negative in 6, and Treasury bills showed a positive return all 64 years. For the rolling 10-year periods covering that span stocks made gains 53 times against only two losses, while intermediate-term Treasuries showed positive returns in all 55 periods.
Because of these records of return and volatility, financial-planning experts say portfolios should include equities to get growth in long-term holdings but they see credit-market instruments as more appropriate for short-term needs.
Tim Kochis, who is in charge of executive financial consulting for Deloitte & Touche, addressed this point last week at a seminar for the firm's new partners in New York.
Because as partners they are going from salaried positions to sharing in the firm's profits and because many are in areas like auditing and consulting, rather than personal finance, they are treated to executive financial counseling sessions similar to those held for corporate clients' executives. When investing for 10 to 15 years or longer, Mr. Kochis said, equities can bring high returns. For the short term, however, he recommended ''maturity matching,'' that is buying a bond, note, bill or certificate of deposit that will mature when the funds are needed for a particular purpose, like a tax or tuition payment.
''Zero-coupon bonds are the classic maturity-matched instrument,'' he said, ''but I wouldn't buy a 20-year zero.''
For the equity portion of a portfolio, for retirement savings for those who start at age 35 to 40, for example, Mr. Kochis said, ''I believe very strongly that the index approach is the way to go.''
''In the long term, luck will balance out, and you're not going to consistently outwit the competition,'' he added, so it makes sense to keep transaction and portfolio management costs down by simply buying into a mutual fund like the Vanguard Index Trust that mirrors the S.&P. 500.
 
Winning Funds
 Past is not necessarily prologue in investing. Nevertheless, it is interesting to note that some mutual funds have beaten the market consistently.
The Mutual Fund News Service, edited by Reg Green, reports that five funds have beaten both the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 in every 10-year period in the past 30 years. There were 21 such periods beginning in the 1960-69 decade and ending in the 1980-89 decade.
The funds and their average annual rates of return for the 10 years ended March 31, 1990, after all expenses including the maximum sales charge for each, were: the American Mutual Fund, 17.9 percent; the Investment Company of America, 17.9 percent; the Washington Mutual Investors Fund, 19.3 percent; the Windsor Fund, 20.7 percent, and Investors Research, 17.1 percent.
The first three are members of the Los Angeles-based American Funds Group. Its distinguishing characteristics are that each fund is run by three or four managers, not just one, and that it has an intensive global research program.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (83%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); DIVIDENDS (87%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); COMMON STOCK (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M JOEL S ISAACSON (76%); TIM KOCHIS (67%); WINDSOR FUND (56%); 



759 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Prices Paid To Farmers Drop 1.3%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Prices farmers get for raw products declined 1.3 percent in June, but were still about 2.7 percent above a year earlier, the Agriculture Department said today.
Lower prices for oranges, wheat, hay and soybeans were mostly responsible for the overall drop in the commodity price index from May, the department's Agricultural Statistics Board said in its preliminary report.
Higher prices were reported for tomatoes, corn, eggs and grapefruit, partly offsetting the declines for the other commodities. Most prices are mid-June averages which will be revised next month to reflect June as a whole. 
Department economists say farm income may rise to record levels this year, depending on 1990 production and market demands. Recent forecasts show 1990 net cash income of farmers in the range of $55 billion to $59 billion, compared with about $54 billion in 1989. The record was $57.2 billion in 1988.
Net cash income is the money farmers have left from gross cash income during a calendar year after deducting cash expenses. It includes government payments and proceeds from crops grown previously but sold during the year.
Another method taking into account changes in inventories, depreciation and other allowances during a calendar year shows that 1990 net farm income may be $47 billion to $51 billion, compared with $49 billion last year.
Consumer food prices are forecast by department economists to rise 3 percent to 5 percent this year after posting an average gain of 5.8 percent in 1989, the sharpest rise since 1981.
Based on the preliminary figures, the June price index for livestock and poultry dropped six-tenths of a percent from May but still averaged 9.6 percent more than a year earlier.
Milk prices rose 10 cents in June, to an average of $13.60 a l00 pounds. That was up $1.20 from June 1989. The farm price of milk rose to a record $16 a hundredweight in December before easing down.
Crop prices over all dropped 3 percent from May and averaged 5.8 percent below the year-earlier level. Fruit prices declined 4.9 percent from May, led by a drop in the price of oranges. The fruit index was down 4 percent from a year earlier.
Wheat prices, under pressure from the new harvest, dropped 25 cents during the month, to $3.15 a bushel in June.

GRAPHIC: Graph: index of prices received by farmers, Jan. 1989-June 1990 (Source: Agriculture Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS BOARD (59%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; PRICES; FARMERS AGRICULTURAL PRICES (95%); AGRICULTURE (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); MILK (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (79%); CORN MARKETS (79%); POULTRY (79%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (79%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); 



760 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Rose 0.4% During May

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Sales of new single-family homes rose four-tenths of 1 percent in May, for the first gain in six months, the Commerce Department said today, but high interest rates and buyer wariness continued to plague the housing industry.
''Housing's performance is well below normal,'' said Robert Villanueva, director of forecasting for the National Association of Home Builders.
That softness continues to drag down the overall economy, which is growing at a sluggish 1 1/2 percent to 2 percent annual rate after inflation, other analysts said. 
Home sales last month rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 532,000 units, after a 5.2 percent decline in April, to a rate of 530,000 units. The May rise was the first increase since November, when sales were 687,000 units, the department said.
The rate of sales in both May and April was the lowest since 521,000 units were sold in December 1982, when the nation was emerging from its last recession.
 
Industry Below Peak Level
 While sales improved from April, the industry remained far below its peak level. The May sales total was 18.3 percent lower than a year earlier, when sales were running at an annual rate of 651,000.
In May, the actual sales total before seasonal adjustment fell to 50,000 units, from 52,000 in April.
Behind the gain in May was a 7.9 percent rise in the Midwest. Sales in the West were also stronger, rising 4.8 percent.
But other regions remained weak, with sales dropping 10.6 percent in the Northeast and 1 percent in the South.
Helping improve demand was a drop in new-home prices, with the average falling to $150,400, from $154,200 in April. The median price decreased to $128,500, from $133,400.
Mr. Villanueva said it was encouraging that sales had stabilized but said it would take a significant drop in interest rates for housing to recover. Fixed-rate mortgages currently average 10 percent, the same as a year ago.
David Wyss, chief financial economist for the forecasting firm Data Resources Inc., said that in addition to high rates, housing remains soft because consumers are wary about making major purchases.
''They see the newspaper headlines that property prices are not going up, and they ask themselves, 'Is this such a good investment?' '' he said.
The outlook is for rates to show little change until early next year, when they could edge higher because of a pickup in the economy, Mr. Wyss said.
Reports of tighter credit, with lenders in certain areas of the country said to be exercising more caution about making loans for construction and land acquisition, also is a negative factor for housing, Mr. Wyss said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: median price for new home, Dec. 1988-May 1990; new home sold during month, Dec. 1988-May 1990 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); 

PERSON: DAVID WYSS (82%); ROBERT VILLANUEVA (64%); 



761 of 761 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls on Anticipation Of Lower U.S. Interest Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday in quiet trading on world currency markets.
Traders said the dollar lost ground amid anticipation of lower United States interest rates.
''The dollar is once again in a vulnerable position vis-a-vis the European countries, which have a demand for capital,'' said Ron Holzer, chief dealer at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. 
Because the demand for capital is high overseas, European interest rates have been edging up and, in turn, attracting investors to European securities.
 
Effect of Bush Tax Plan
President Bush's announcement that taxes must be raised to help offset the nation's budget deficit also served to push the dollar lower. To many traders, new taxes and a reduced budget deficit enhance the notion that interest rates will head lower, because reduced Federal borrowing needs would curtail demand for credit.
Traders are bracing themselves for next week, which they expect to be laden with market-moving news. The German monetary union is scheduled to take effect Sunday, and the Labor Department is to release the June unemployment report next Friday.
''Most of the market was happy to make a small profit at the end of the week,'' said Linda McLaughlin, a trader at the Chemical New York Capital Markets Group.
Dealers said the dollar's biggest decline Friday came against the Japanese yen, which has been rising because of firmer Japanese money market rates.
 
Fall Against the Yen
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 152.85 Japanese yen, from 154.42 yen at Thursday's close. Later in London, it fell to 152.30 yen. In New York the dollar closed at 152.10 yen, down from 153.15 yen on Thursday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7450, from $1.7400 late Thursday. In New York, the pound rose to $1.7490, from $1.7384.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.6607 West German marks, down from 1.6730; 1.4150 Swiss francs, down from 1.4200; 5.5795 French francs, down from 5.6155; 1,219.75 Italian lire, down from 1,228.00, and 1.1634 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1699.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); ALBANY, NY, USA (53%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (57%); 

 
