

401 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Daisy Chain Of Cheneys

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 I imagine that if you called the new consulting firm of Cheney, Cheney & Cheney and got put on hold, you'd hear the ''Ghostbusters'' theme:
 ''If there's someone weak,
 if you've sprung a leak, 
 if the world looks bleak,
 if you hide and seek,
 who ya gonna call? 
 OBAMABUSTERS!''
 It's hard to believe that the Bush dynasty, which limped away in disgrace after smashing our economy and the globe, has spawned another political dynasty.
 But Jason Horowitz reported in The Washington Post that Mary Cheney, the younger daughter of the former vice president, is starting a consulting firm modeled on Kissinger Associates. 
 Since it involves the Cheneys, it's shrouded in unnecessary secrecy. But Mary's friends say her plan is to make it Cheney cubed, bringing in her dad and big sister, Liz, when those two finish cleaning out the Augean stables of Dick Cheney's legacy for his memoir.
 Horowitz wrote that Mary, who is expecting her second child with her partner, Heather Poe, next month, may be hanging the shingle for the ''gruff clan who speak in dour unison when bashing the current president, second-guessing the previous commander in chief and chiding wayward G.O.P. leaders.''
 The influence-peddling firm will be wildly successful, no doubt, because if anyone has shown a golden touch, it's Dick Cheney. And there are bound to be oodles of clients who want coaching on how to make things look totally the opposite of what they are.
 Saudis, right-wing dictators and Bernie Madoff calling for image makeovers? Scooter Libby calling to see how to get his career back after taking the fall for his scheming boss? Rush Limbaugh calling to strategize about how to buy an N.F.L. team with black players as he says offensive things about blacks? Rupert Murdoch seeking tips on how to merge Fox and NBC into Brian O'Hannity?
 You can hear a receptionist chirping: ''Cheney, Cheney & Cheney. Who would you like to target today?''
 Regarding bipartisanship with the same contempt as multilateralism and multiculturalism, the Cheneys have led the charge against Obama, painting him as a wishy-washy loser who has turned America to mush. On Fox News last Sunday, Liz Cheney -- who still talks about having ''liberated'' Iraq -- called Obama's Nobel Peace Prize a ''farce'' and suggested that he ''send the mother of a fallen American soldier to accept the prize on behalf of the U.S. military.''
 The blonde 43-year-old lawyer, a mother of five hailed by her fans as ''a red state rock star,'' teamed up this week with Bill Kristol to start a new group called ''Keep America Safe.'' Kristol, of course, was the chief proponent of the wacky notion that Dan Quayle, and later Sarah Palin, could Keep America Safe, which somewhat undermines the urgency and gravity of the group's moniker. 
 And Liz's dear old dad was the one who made America less safe by straining our military to the breaking point while carrying out his knuckleheaded theory of pre-emptive war. Still, Liz hopes her new enterprise will energize opponents of President Obama's ''radical'' foreign policy, as she has tried to do so volubly on cable shows, and raise money by presenting the president as a callow, wobbly, golf-playing appeaser whose foreign policy will ''make us weaker.'' 
 The Web site features a daily Willie Hortonish detainee feature, profiling one of the scary swarthy prisoners at Gitmo. And it will also have all kinds of fun reading, like memos by Bush lawyers on enhanced interrogation. (Or, as it's more commonly known outside the gargoyled gates of Cheneyville, torture.)
 The ''Keep America Safe'' mission statement says that ''the current administration too often seems uncertain, wishful, irresolute, and unwilling to stand up for America, our allies and our interests.'' 
 It's evocative of an earlier effort by conservatives to prod a Democratic president to man-up, hectoring him about his ''inadequate'' foreign policy and his course of ''weakness and drift.''
 That was a 1998 letter to President Bill Clinton from the Project for the New American Century, with signers such as Kristol, Paul Wolfowitz, Donald Rumsfeld, Richard Perle and John Bolton, urging a strategy that ''should aim, above all, at the removal of Saddam Hussein's regime from power.'' (Dick Cheney and Scooter Libby signed the project's statement of principles.)
 Kristol joked to Politico's Ben Smith that the venture might serve as a launching pad for Liz to run for office. (A Senate bid from Virginia, where she lives, or Wyoming, which she still calls home?)
 That raises the terrifying specter that some day we could see a Palin-Cheney ticket, promoted by Kristol. 
 Sarah would bring her content-free crackle and gut instincts; Liz would bring facts and figures distorted by ideology. Pretty soon, we're pre-emptively invading Iran and the good times are rolling all over again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



402 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Challenger Finds the Campaign Spotlight Elusive

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
William C. Thompson Jr. walked into Tuesday night's mayoral debate a likeable man who is being outspent 16 to 1, and whose views and background are more than a bit of a mystery to many New Yorkers.
 Unfortunately for Mr. Thompson, he seemed to have exited in the same fashion.
 Save for his accent, which carries the unmistakable cadence of his native Brooklyn, and for his insistent attacks on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's flip-flop on term limits, Mr. Thompson, the city comptroller, resembled a painter who left too much of his canvas blank. 
 He grew up as the high-achieving son of a prominent politician and a teacher in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a neighborhood of elegant brownstones that now suffers a plague of foreclosures and homelessness. During his time on the Board of Education, he voted for two chancellors who concentrated on the poorest students and wrested power from corrupt local school boards. Test scores rose sharply in his final years there.
 A viewer would have learned little to nothing of these facts. Mr. Thompson's personal anecdote count Tuesday totaled zero. 
 The conundrum for Mr. Thompson is that he's carved a three-decade career in public life by being a conciliator, a nimble-footed inside player herded board members to votes and -- with one notable exception -- really tried to avoid annoying former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 He lacked power to make most policy decisions and seemed allergic to crusades. All of which is perfectly defensible, but public powerlessness is not the stuff of compelling narratives.
 On Tuesday Mr. Bloomberg attacked him, erroneously, for being ''in charge'' of the schools in the 1990s. Mr. Thompson scrunched his face, incredulous.
 ''I was in charge?'' he said, turning to look at the mayor. ''Nothing could be further from the truth.''
 Mr. Bloomberg replied with just a hint of a Cheshire cat smile.
 In fairness, neither mayor nor comptroller made the night electric; Mr. Bloomberg in particular tended to dole out energy a miserly watt at a time. The city is sunk into recession's mire, unemployment tops 10 percent -- black male unemployment edges toward 50 percent -- and foreclosure threatens working class families, and the candidates made glancing mentions of all of this. (Neither candidate uttered the word foreclosure).
 A reporter asked the candidates about a controversial fact of life in minority communities: Police each year frisk more than half a million young men, more than 80 percent of them black or Latino. The number of frisks has increased during the past decade, sweeping up hundreds of thousands of teenagers and college students. Police have arrested fewer than 5 percent of this number.
 Mr. Thompson wants to curtail it. ''We know it's being overused,'' he said.
 Mr. Bloomberg conceded no problem. ''I do think the police have struck a good balance,'' he said soothingly.
 Mr. Bloomberg is not much for emoting. He rolls his eyes, his voice cuts monotone and his touch is rarely common. But he came into the night with considerable advantages. He is a reasonably popular two-term incumbent (residents tend to like his policies more so than him), and he sits atop a great green bag of personal swag, having so far spent $65 million of his own money on this campaign. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, an independent, is unsentimentally promiscuous about party loyalty. But in his governing style, he looks an awful lot like a moderate Democrat, which complicates matters for Mr. Thompson, who as it happens is a moderate Democrat. 
 None of which is to suggest that Mr. Thompson has no line of attack -- the decaying economy suggests opportunity. But the Thompson campaign has been curiously relaxed -- last weekend he appeared at two churches, according to his schedule. He offered passionate words Tuesday night about the plight of middle-class New Yorkers.
 But he offered no storehouse of stories of actual suffering to put meat on the bones of his attack. 
 Instead Mr. Thompson concluded as he began, by doubling down on a single bet: term limits. The election, he said, will be New Yorkers' referendum on term limits. ''And that we say: We are not for sale!''
 In less than four weeks, he'll find out if that is enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TERM LIMITS (71%); FAMILY (69%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); ARRESTS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009



403 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: The Magic Word Is 'Focus'

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
MICHAEL SURRETT'S investment portfolio hasn't fully recovered from the market crash, but that didn't stop him from retiring three weeks ago.
 ''We are no different than anyone else in this economy,'' said Mr. Surrett, 64, who lives in Valley Springs, Calif., with his wife, Shirley. ''We have felt this greatly with the decline in stocks, bonds and mutuals. The key is planning and having our priorities set.'' 
 For Mr. Surrett, who spent most of his career in institutional food services and procurement, his priority was swapping the stress of working for a quieter existence that allows him to spend less time in traffic and more with his family. He understands that he must rein in his spending to stretch his retirement savings, which he said are about 20 percent lower than he would like.
 Diminished investment portfolios and declining home values have forced many people to delay their retirement plans. For many older Americans, reducing spending isn't and won't be a sufficient option -- and they face the unfortunate reality of working longer. 
 But a number of people, like Mr. Surrett, are all too ready to move on to the next phase of their lives -- even if it requires mastering the fine art of cutting back, as one financial adviser put it. This group has the financial resources and the motivation to manage the exchange of living standards for freedom, at least in theory. 
 But is the idea delusional? That's where the hard work comes in: evaluating whether you can make the transition in this economy will require soul-searching, tough choices and a return to the thrift-minded ways of past generations. ''It's interesting to see how people can and do adjust to difficult situations,'' said Robin Young, a financial planner with Northstar Financial Planning in Londonderry, N.H. ''People are very resilient and get empowered by their own resourcefulness.''
 Where does an aspiring retiree begin? We asked several financial planners, including a group of professionals known as life planners, who said they took a more holistic approach, prioritizing life goals and spending, and grounding those in sound financial planning.
 ENVISION Before making the transition, people should envision their lives in retirement. Life planners take a thought-provoking approach, which involves asking three questions that try to elicit, with increasingly pointed precision, what's truly important to a person. Ideally, these are answered well before retirement. 
 The first question assumes you have all of the money you need -- how would you live your life today? In the second, you are told that you have five years to live: what would you do with that time? And the final question aims right at the heart. You have 24 hours left on earth -- what did you miss? Whom did you not get to be?
 Answering these questions puts people in a more expansive state of mind and opens them to thinking more creatively, life planners said. ''It essentially describes their picture of freedom,'' said Reed Fraasa, a registered life planner, a designation granted by the Kinder Institute after completion of its life-planning curriculum. And what many people learn is that they've become shackled by a lifestyle they created during their peak earning years, at the expense of pursuing more fulfilling, and often less expensive, goals.
 The answers to the questions rarely center on money or things, say these planners, most of whom have completed the exercise themselves. 
 ''For clients approaching retirement, this process can often help them make the leap because they have something to look forward to and are willing to think creatively about how to get it,'' said Ms. Young, also a registered life planner. ''It really takes digging into the expenses and helping the client to come up with ideas that work for them; they will only do this if they have explored why retirement is important to them and can understand what the trade-offs are.''
 FOR Susan Kuhn, 60, a retired community executive at the American Cancer Society, one trade-off meant giving up a second car. Her husband, Bill, about 13 years her senior, retired about eight years ago. Given their age difference and their goal of doing things together -- and Mr. Kuhn's desire to have their savings support his wife after he's gone -- they knew they would have to make some adjustments. When the market fell and Mrs. Kuhn wrecked her car, the couple decided they could manage with just one.
 ''It seemed like a sacrifice at first, but it has worked out just fine,'' she said, because Mr. Kuhn does a lot of volunteer work from home, including refurbishing computers for the needy and elderly. ''We just work more closely on our schedules, and it saved us a lot of money.''
 For the Kuhns, it was a matter of fine-tuning. They traded in their older, large refrigerator for a smaller one, which halved their electric bill. The thermostat is set at 65 degrees throughout the cold winters in Atkinson, N.H., where they live, and sweaters and a wood-burning stove help keep their heating costs down. Mr. Kuhn said they were living on 65 percent to 70 percent of their preretirement income today. 
 TRACK SPENDING A large part of the Kuhns' flexibility can be traced to Mr. Kuhn's meticulous record-keeping, using Quicken software. ''I am a record freak,'' Mr. Kuhn said. ''It's a pain, but when you get ready to retire you really need to know what it will cost you.'' 
 Most people take a backward approach, advisers said, and aim for a dollar amount -- whether it's $500,000 or $5 million -- that they believe they must hit before they can retire. Instead, you should track your expenses for several months, or, even better, for a year.
 Mr. Fraasa, of Riverdale, N.J, asks his clients how much time they spent researching their last vacation and then asks them to spend at least half that time going through credit-card and bank statements. Automating the process by using expense-tracking software or Web sites can alleviate some of the tedium. Once you know what you're spending, you can more easily compute how much it costs you to live and how much wiggle room, if any, you have. 
 ''Sit down and get conscious,'' said Rick Kahler, a financial planner in Rapid City, S.D. 
 Aspiring retirees need to estimate which expenses will stay (food, utilities), which will go (mortgage, perhaps, or a monthly commuter train pass) and where they may increase spending, like travel. Medicare Part B generally costs about $97 a month, but doesn't include prescription drug, dental, hearing or vision coverage. If you expect to buy a supplemental policy, start pricing them. And familiarize yourself with medical costs you may have to pay for out of pocket, so there are fewer surprises.
 Henry Hebeler, a retired Boeing executive who created AnalyzeNow.com, a Web site that offers retirement advice and calculators, also recommended making what he called a replacement budget: make a list of all the big-ticket items you expect to wear out -- cars, water heaters, the roof -- by estimating their life and replacement cost. 
 CUTTING BACK Once would-be retirees know what they want retirement to look like, they can evaluate whether their resources can accommodate those goals. 
 ''Many would rather live on less and have freedom than go to work each day and have a fatter wallet,'' said Scott Hanson, a financial adviser in Sacramento.
 Leonard Golub, a financial adviser with a life-planning approach, has witnessed a renewed sense of community among his clients, whose solutions often involved sharing resources. ''I see people coming together to pool financial resources in communities, sharing land or sharing dwellings, sharing vacation homes,'' he said. ''I see them making decisions to downsize their home and deciding the home they built is not the home they need.'' 
 A smaller house may be an obvious option, but it's one that many retirees agonize over, especially those with emotional attachments to their home or who want space for visiting children and grandchildren. 
 ''Despite a troubled real estate market, a large percentage of our clients, as they often say about farmers, are real estate rich and cash poor,'' said Charles Farrell, president of 65Retire, a financial services firm in Irvine, Calif. ''By selling a vacation property or even downsizing a primary residence, we can often free up enough cash that can be invested to produce more lifetime income.''
 Depending on where you live, it may pay to wait. But even if you receive, say, 15 percent less than you'd like for your current home, the less expensive home you shop for is also likely to be cheaper.
 For some people, it may simply be a matter of cutting out the excess -- eating out less, sticking closer to home, taking the time to call your service providers to find savings. The same logic can and should be applied to your investment portfolio. Get rid of expensive investments and replace them with low-cost index funds or exchange-traded funds, which can easily cut your investment fees by 1 percent. On a $500,000 portfolio, that could save $5,000 a year, said Kevin Brosious, a financial planner in Allentown, Pa. ''Not chump change.''
 DIVIDE YOUR MONEY Retired people and those on the cusp of retirement need to position their savings so they don't have to worry about having to sell investments at precisely the wrong time so that they can cover living expenses. Most retirees need to plan for a 30-year retirement, but they think of every market downturn as an ''end state,'' Mr. Fraasa said.
 Separating money into ''buckets'' that are designated for different tasks can help alleviate the problem; many planners use this strategy, with slight variations. 
 Mr. Fraasa, for instance, has his clients keep an emergency fund and a reserve fund, with the remainder invested for the long term. The emergency fund contains three to six months of living expenses in liquid investments to cover unexpected short-term expenses or catastrophes.
 The reserve fund, meanwhile, established as you approach retirement, would include three years of basic expenses (so if you have a $500,000 portfolio and you expect to withdraw $20,000 a year, you could put $60,000 in short-term bonds and money-market funds). The remainder is invested in stocks and bonds for the long term, with an allocation based on your risk tolerance and goals. 
 ''Eighty percent of how someone will react to a crisis, with financial planning, has already been dealt with before the crisis, because they have already gone through this process,'' Mr. Fraasa said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES (HAT)
ERIK ISAKSON/GETTY IMAGES (COUPLE)) (pg. F1)
 FINE-TUNING Bill and Susan Kuhn of Atkinson, N.H., replacing a screen door with glass. They have cut electric and heating bills.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BONDS (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



404 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Ease the Pressure of a Cash Crunch

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
MANY retirees are in a cash crunch -- with a lower income stream from their investment portfolios, personal expenses that are higher than expected, or both. 
 While most assets can be used to generate liquidity, deciding what to do requires careful deliberation; there are many pitfalls. Here are the most commonly used approaches for people who find themselves coming up short during retirement, and an analysis of their pros and cons.
CASH FROM YOUR HOME Mortgage rates are so low that many financial planners say the best way to raise money is to take out a conventional mortgage or a home equity line. But reverse mortgages, which allow homeowners who are at least 62 to borrow against the equity in their homes and receive regular monthly payments, are often seen as a last resort. Some financial planners even advise retirees to sell their investment portfolios or cash in their life insurance policies before taking out a reverse mortgage. 
 Unlike traditional mortgages or home equity lines, a reverse mortgage requires no payments until the borrowers die or no longer use the home as their primary residence. Then the mortgage must be paid in full. Closing costs, fees and interest rates are also generally high, reducing the amount of money that borrowers can leave to their heirs. Yet if retirees have exhausted other options, a reverse mortgage may be worth considering, especially for those with high medical expenses, said Alicia H. Munnell, the director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''If you're not planning on leaving your house to a child, then this is an option, rather than depriving yourself during your lifetime,'' she said. 
 TAPPING LIFE INSURANCE Retirees often decide that they no longer need life insurance once their children are grown. If they own whole-life policies, which have an investment component, and want to drop them, they can either cash them in with their insurers or sell them to investors, who will pay the premiums until the policyholders die. An advantage of dealing with investors is that you can sometimes get a better deal than from the insurance company. 
 ''This is a relatively new business,'' said Gary Schatsky, a financial planner in New York, ''so you want to make sure that you are dealing with a reputable company. You also need to decide if you feel comfortable with a stranger benefiting from your death.'' 
 Financial planners say that giving up life insurance to ease a temporary cash shortfall might not be the best option for the policyholder's heirs, though. 
 ''I like to look at this from an investment angle,'' said Lewis J. Altfest, a financial planner in New York. He says he calculates the potential return based on the life expectancy of the policyholder and the cash value of the policy today. For a person with a short expected life span, Mr. Altfest said, ''the return on the policy could be much larger than any return they could reasonably expect to get on their stock and bond portfolio.''
 Financial planners say that it often makes more sense to use a life insurance policy as collateral for a personal loan, especially if the borrower has only a short-term financial need. The interest rate might be higher for this type of loan than for a home equity loan, though, so borrowers should compare the rates carefully if they are eligible for both.
 SELLING STOCKS AND BONDS Selling part of an investment portfolio is one of the most common ways to raise cash. Financial planners say that those who decide to take this course should make sure they have taken steps to minimize taxes and transaction costs. For example, selling individual bonds before they reach maturity can generate higher brokerage costs than selling shares of an open-ended mutual fund. And it is generally more tax efficient to sell shares with long-term capital gains than those with short-term capital gains, which are taxed at a higher rate.
 But if retirees are concerned about how much money they will have to leave to their heirs, they should keep any shares that have appreciated greatly. If these shares are eventually part of their estate, their heirs will owe capital gains taxes only on any increase in the value of the shares from the point they inherited them.
 If a financial need is temporary, retirees can investigate other options, too. ''If it's a short-term need, then they should exhaust other options like family loans or tapping their home equity lines,'' Mr. Schatsky said. 
 It might also be more tax efficient to borrow against an investment portfolio than to sell it, he said. ''If it's only a short-term need, don't rearrange your entire portfolio.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REVERSE MORTGAGES (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INSURANCE (88%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (76%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); WHOLE LIFE INSURANCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



405 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: Making Shabby Chic, Again

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
IT was a look -- and a phrase -- that defined a generation of living rooms, and spawned an industry of knock-offs. And it enjoyed a long and fruitful run. So when Shabby Chic filed for bankruptcy last January after nearly 20 years in business, its creator, Rachel Ashwell, felt both anguish and humiliation, not to mention flat-out exhaustion.
 Ms. Ashwell, who had just turned 50 and had already been blown sideways by the recent death of her mother, was soon presiding over the liquidation of 15 stores and the dismissal of her hand-picked teams of upholsterers and sewers, designers and salespeople. Afterward, she imagined she would be taking a well-deserved, if not exactly planned-for, rest. But it was not to be. 
 The woman who had made unlikely stars out of a giant squashy sofa and a baggy white slipcover -- the decorating equivalent of a peasant blouse and worn jeans, a sartorial style that the very English Ms. Ashwell almost exclusively favors -- was courted by a new partnership. And so it was that last month she found herself hurtling between New York, her home in Santa Monica and London, stocking three new stores with the chipped white furniture and blowsy upholstered pieces that had long been her trademark. So little time had elapsed between the liquidation and this ramping up that Ms. Ashwell's Santa Monica storefront was still available, so technically only two of the three ''new'' stores would be housed in new real estate.
 All of which begs the question: what are the chances that a new business whose product and gestalt are based on a rather old -- that is to say, two decades old -- idea might find success in a still-punishing retail environment? To put it another way, does the big white couch still have legs?
 In fact, late 2009 may be the prime moment for products that derive their energy from comfort, sensuality and the idea of hunkering down. For in many ways, 2009 is shaping up to look a lot like 1989.
 Back then, when Ms. Ashwell, a newly divorced film stylist with two young children, opened her first store in Santa Monica, she filled it with flea-market furniture and reacquainted Americans with a particularly English idea, the slipcover. She certainly didn't invent the look, but by exaggerating it -- making the sofas bigger and the covers baggier -- and branding it with the phrase ''Shabby Chic,'' Ms. Ashwell intuitively positioned herself in opposition to the buttoned-up decorating styles associated with the financial excesses of the 1980s and the subsequent recession, which was soon to be in full bloom. 
 With a style she likes to describe as ''my mush'' or ''the beauty of imperfection,'' she was marketing the sort of at-home comfort that would form the backdrop to what the futurist Faith Popcorn had called ''cocooning'' years earlier, the widespread response to those excesses.
 Not that a Shabby Chic sofa came cheap, by any means, but it was an anti-decorating statement; it showed that you were culturally in touch enough to assume a laid-back style.
 ''She taught people that it was O.K. to be slightly messy,'' said Marian McEvoy, a former editor in chief of Elle Decor and House Beautiful. ''That you can have wrinkles and puckers and your cabbage roses can be tea-stained, and it's O.K. because it's your house, your family, your kids.'' 
 In Ms. Ashwell's own child-centric home, where she road-tested her products, sofas were used mostly as forts, while sheets were tents, she said, adding: ''It was all about, 'Is it washable?' ''
 From that laboratory came Shabby Chic's best-selling sofa, covered in highly washable white denim.
 Scale was also key. Shabby Chic sold enormous couches -- at least 6 to 8 inches deeper, Ms. Ashwell said, than the norm back in those days -- sensual, enveloping maws in which you could do just about anything. And for lanky celebrity clients like Jeff Goldblum and Warren Beatty, she said, she made them even bigger and longer.
 Judith Regan, the publisher-turned-radio host who published five books of Ms. Ashwell's after seeing her Santa Monica store, still has three Shabby Chic chairs and three sofas, one of which she uses as an office. ''I just crawl into it with my laptop and papers,'' she said recently. 
 If Laura Ashley was for good girls, Shabby Chic was for bad girls. Or at least grown-up girls. Also, as Ms. McEvoy said: ''She saved herself from being too twee with the big volume. I think bigger saved her from being another cutesy-pie on the block.''
 By 1992, Ms. Ashwell's company and its signature product had been noted by the Encyclopaedia Britannica in its annual trend roundup for reintroducing the slipcover: ''not the trim, well-fitting kind,'' the article read, ''but sloppy, wrinkled ones dubbed 'Shabby Chic' by a California company of the same name.'' Soon, many furniture retailers were selling some version, and there were knock-offs like Washable Posh, a line of slipcovers made by Domain. 
 Time marched on -- through a reprise of midcentury modernism and then a '30s- and '40s-inspired maximalism. But Ms. Ashwell's sweetly sensual brand held to its soft aesthetic course and kept growing. There were books filled with limpid images of unmade beds and sun-soaked kitchens, and of Ms. Ashwell, slight and lovely in her jeans and peasant blouses. There was a television show, and a vast range of products, from pajamas and bedding to matches and sachets. 
 At its peak, five years ago, Ms. Ashwell said, she had 6 stores and 250 wholesale accounts -- which is to say, retailers other than Ms. Ashwell selling Shabby Chic products -- and annual sales of about $20 million. In 2004, she was introduced to executives at Target, for which she developed a line of sheets, bath products and furniture called Simply Shabby Chic, which she still oversees. Then, nearly three years ago, a venture capital firm, Goode Partners, reached out to her, proposing an expansion that called for nearly 60 stores across the country -- just as the economy was crashing. 
 It's hard to say how such a plan would have fared in another retail era, but the combination proved fatal, and after opening 9 new stores during an 18-month period beginning in 2007, Shabby Chic filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy early this year. 
 ''There's no bad blood,'' she said of her relationship with her former business associates at Goode Partners. ''The Goode guys were good guys. It was just timing.'' (David Oddi, a partner there, declined to be interviewed for this article.)
 Wearied by the illness of her mother, who received a cancer diagnosis the previous August and died two months later, Ms. Ashwell poured her heart out on her blog. And an interesting thing happened: a fan base, in hundreds of comments from women who called themselves things like Shabby Chick or Cottage Flair or the Whispering Poppies, poured their hearts out right back. 
 ''There will be new beginnings as well,'' Cashmere Librarian wrote, in a typical post on Ms. Ashwell's blog. ''This economic hardship has hit all our families.''
 ''You've opened my eyes to the beauty of worn things,'' Kelly wrote. ''There is much love surrounding you.''
 With the liquidation of the merchandise under way, Shabby Chic had one final asset to sell that clearly had some value: the name. Enter Brand Sense Partners, an investment and marketing company that is also branding a line of jeans with Sheryl Crow and apparel with Bravo's ''Real Housewives'' series. It joined with Ms. Ashwell to buy back the name and design what Ramez Toubassy, the company's president and now the chief executive officer of Shabby Chic, called ''furniture for the high end of the middle market.''
 The business plan, he and Ms. Ashwell said, describes a line of lower-price upholstered pieces that will appear in furniture stores sometime next year. Her new flagship stores in Manhattan and Santa Monica (a third is to open in London early next year) have been conspicuously named Shabby Chic Couture, to differentiate their higher price point -- the new $3,500 sofa, versus one that might sell for $1,500 -- from the new line for other stores.
 ''We think Rachel has developed a signature style that is totally relevant in today's economy,'' Mr. Toubassy said recently. ''It allows you to take what you already have and combine it with Shabby Chic products to really capture the Shabby Chic life. And that is a massively relevant thing in today's market, the idea that to get Shabby Chic in your home you don't have to buy a lot of things.'' 
 Warren Shoulberg, editor of Home Furnishings News, said he thinks the brand ''has equity with customers.''
 ''It was a very iconic look when it first came out, and it influenced a whole generation of retailers and customers,'' he said. ''She's still very much identified with that look, and you either like it or you don't. I'm not quite sure as many people like it as used to. But maybe we've come full circle, as the more modern and streamlined look has peaked.'' 
 Marian Salzman, president of Euro RSCG Worldwide, a global marketing agency, described Shabby Chic's psychographic space as ''a safe place, a battening-down of the hatches.''
 ''It's also undressed, a bit free-form, the opposite of fit and toned, which is what we were when we were on top of things,'' she said. Those are ideas that might have particular traction right now, Ms. Salzman allowed, but she worried, too, that the name itself was dated.
 Sally Singer, fashion news and features director of Vogue magazine, who lives in the Chelsea Hotel with her husband and three sons and a white denim Shabby Chic couch she bought seven years ago, agreed. ''Anything-chic seems a bit retro now,'' she said. ''But I'm not sure what replaces it. I guess it seems dated, too, because Shabby Chic as an idea is now the norm, from what Martha Stewart makes to John Derian. Everyone mixes in the flea market finds that have been weathered by the rains of Maine with the big white couch.'' 
 Ms. Ashwell's fans, of course, could care less if Shabby, as Ms. Ashwell calls her company, is ''in'' or ''out.'' When Ms. Ashwell blogged about the opening of her New York store last month, Alison, an English retailer whose online boutique is called Vintage Amethyst, wrote enthusiastically, ''Oh my goodness, so much prettiness here.''
 Felicity from Australia gushed: ''Be still my heart!!! My (Mr.) Darcy chair is coming back!!! And I'm sure just like the original Mr. Darcy it will be as handsome as ever. Thank you, Thank you, Thank you.''
 And Ms. Regan recalled a recent encounter with another fan, Suzette Colette Cole, who runs the Bunny Ranch, a legal brothel in Carson City, Nev. (Ms. Cole's boss, the Bunny Ranch's owner, is a friend of Ms. Regan's.) ''She was so excited to learn that I had been Rachel's publisher,'' Ms. Regan said. ''Shabby Chic, that was her thing.''
 Reached by phone last week, Ms. Cole said she has all Ms. Ashwell's books and endeavors ''to set my house just like them,'' with chandeliers, vintage French furniture and Shabby Chic sheets. 
 Decorating this way, she explained, is her refuge from the brothel business, which, unlike retailing, is booming. ''It's a 24-hour business,'' she said. ''I love my job, but I love to piddle at home and dream about going to Paris. I'm not married, I don't have a boyfriend, I have no kids, and I do like spending time at home.''
 Is there deeper meaning in the blowsy form of a Shabby Chic sofa? Why does it resonate with so many different kinds of women?
 Dr. Prudence L. Gourguechon, a practicing psychoanalyst and the president of the American Psychoanalytic Association, deemed the sofa's lines ''regressive, as in the human tendency to go backwards developmentally, towards the comforts and pleasures of an earlier time,'' like comfort food -- vanilla ice cream, for example. ''It's white, it's escapist,'' she said. 
 ''It would be interesting to track the rise of comfort-food restaurants,'' she continued, and the sales of white, squashy sofas, ''against Standard & Poor.'' 
 In fact, in an article last December in The Wall Street Journal, Kay S. Hymowitz, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, proposed a corollary to the old hemline-to-economics ratio: ''When the economy goes south, sofas go overstuffed,'' she wrote. ''Prepare for the return of what anthropologist Grant McCracken calls 'homeyness.' ''
 That may be true, but as Mr. Shoulberg cautioned, the home furnishings business is tough now. ''It's the first business to go into a recession,'' he said, ''and the last to come out of it.''
 Jerry Epperson, a managing director of Mann, Armistead & Epperson, an investment banking firm that specializes in home furnishings, and the publisher of a newsletter about the business, said that while he was not familiar with Shabby Chic, he thought the ''timing couldn't have been worse'' to introduce a new furniture brand. 
 ''Most in the home furnishings sector have cut back on both inventories and on advertising any new ideas or products, as dumb as that sounds,'' he said, ''until after this horrible recession passes.''
 For her part, Ms. Ashwell acknowledged that a rest would have been nice, but ''even though it was looking to the public like I was walking into the sunset, that was never the idea.'' Target, she points out, is its own business, undiminished or affected by her company's bankruptcy. And along with her ''new'' stores, and new business plan, she has a new book, ''Shabby Chic Interiors: My Rooms, Treasures and Trinkets,'' a book that looks, well, pretty much like all her others: there are the same unmade beds and the same chipped white furniture, and there's Ms. Ashwell in her trademark blue jeans, looking not a day over 30.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A COUCH FOR THE SEASON: Twenty years ago, when Rachel Ashwell started Shabby Chic, her enormous, squashy sofas catered to customers' recession-induced desire to hunker down.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ART STREIBER/SHABBY CHIC (ABOVE)
MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (PORTRAIT))(pg. D1)
COMFORT FOOD: Shabby Chic furniture may be the decorating equivalent of macaroni and cheese. Judith Regan, the publisher turned radio host, top, has three of the sofas in her Manhattan apartment. Suzette Colette Cole, madam of the Bunny Ranch in Nevada, right, finds respite from her work in emulating the decorating in Shabby Chic books. Inset above, the liquidation sale at the San Francisco store earlier this year
center right, the new SoHo store opened in September.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES (REGAN)
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (SOHO)
JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES (INSET)
 BRAD HORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (COLE))(pg. D5) CHART: A Look and an Economy, Roughly Linked (pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIQUIDATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); REUPHOLSTERY & FURNITURE REPAIR (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); CHILDREN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



406 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Berlin, With Few Walls

BYLINE: By CATHRIN SCHAER

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
 MICHAEL ELMGREEN and Ingar Dragset are artists who have exhibited from New York to Tokyo. But for the last 12 years, the globe-trotting artistic duo, collaborators since 1995, have lived in Berlin. And at a certain point, they decided it was time to buy.
 ''We were never particularly interested in property investment,'' said Mr. Dragset, who is from Norway (Mr. Elmgreen is from Denmark). 
 The two men, once a couple but now just artistic partners, originally moved to Berlin because it was near Copenhagen, where they had lived, and because it seemed full of energy as well as inexpensive. But after a decade in Berlin, Mr. Dragset said, ''We were tired of fixing up spaces and having to leave them after a couple of years.''
 And, he added, ''both privately, and within our art practice, we love spatial challenges -- so we were looking for somewhere we could apply the concepts we had been working with in our art.'' 
 When they saw an advertisement for the old water-pumping station in a quiet Berlin suburb, a working-class area called Neukolln in the former East Berlin, the pair's creative antennae began to twitch. The former pumping station, surrounded by fully grown chestnut trees and flanked by apartment buildings on a residential street, had remained empty since the early 1990s because nobody knew quite what to do with such an oversize hall stuck in the middle of a non-industrial location.
 ''Almost too good to be true,'' Mr. Dragset said. ''Especially considering the price, which was ridiculously low compared to any other European capital.'' He declined to specify but said it was similar to a typical two-bedroom apartment in Oslo, which is about $700,000. The renovations cost about the same as the purchase price.
 Working with two young architects, Nils Wenk and Jan Wiese, whom they met through friends, the two began renovations that took about a year. Fortunately the solid old industrial building was in good condition and drastic structural changes were unnecessary. New wiring, heating and plumbing were needed, but as Mr. Dragset explained, ''basically we've broken down more walls than we've built.''
 After the initial apprehension at owning their own property, Mr. Dragset said, they began to treat the renovations more like an art project, playing with the space and coming up with clever uses for the former station's various features. For example, the four large vents in the upper floor once used to ventilate the building have been transformed into a fireplace, a table, a guest bed and an embedded bathtub.
 There's no clutter: just white walls, glacial light streaming in through old warehouse-style windows, trees silently waving at visitors from the outside and what feels like acres of floor space.
 The building is now both home and studio space. Generally, the renovation materials have been inexpensive. Most of the floors are sanded asphalt covered in clear polyurethane that goes with the industrial nature of the building. On one hand, ''it's reminiscent of the building's industrial history,'' Mr. Wenk said. ''On the other hand, it's very economical.'' In smaller rooms, the asphalt was sanded more finely, he explained, then tinted to reflect the personal nature of the rooms. 
 The farther up and back one goes, the more private the space becomes. The back boasts five levels, including two private areas for the artists, a kitchen, an attic living room and four bathrooms. And the renovated attic space is reminiscent of a playboy's penthouse. In this upper section, a window in the roof slides back at the push of a button like something out of Dr. Evil's lair.
 ''We deliberately made the borders between the work and living spaces fleeting,'' Mr. Dragset said. ''The combination of vast floor space and the small, quirky nooks means you can be very hidden here, or very exposed depending on your moods or needs.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about the renovation of a former water-pumping station in Berlin and its conversion into a home and art studio misidentified the location of Neukolln, the building's neighborhood. Neukolln is on the west side of the former border of West and East Berlin, not the east side.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. In the great hall of the former water pumping station, platforms from which engineers once supervised machinery are now mezzanine office space. The height gives Sandra Stemmer, the studio manager, a bird's-eye view. 2. The artists, Michael Elmgreen, right, and Ingar Dragset. 3. The exterior of the 1920s building remained relatively untouched. 4. The main space is used for fabricating artworks created by Mr. Elmgreen and Mr. Dragset. 5. Private and public spaces use similar colors
 in this bathroom, the tub is sunk into the floor. 6. An artwork sits in the main hall, used to rehearse ''Drama Queens,'' a play with Kevin Spacey and Jeremy Irons, done in London. 7. Behind the mezzanine office, a kitchen of stainless steel and wood provides room for the studio staff to have working lunches. 8. In the attic, a new 16-foot-high window opens fully, creating the feel of a terrace.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SIMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); OSLO, NORWAY (72%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (57%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); NORWAY (88%); DENMARK (72%); EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



407 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Stock Exchange Shrinks as Rivals Take Over Trades

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
For most of the 217 years since its founding under a buttonwood tree on Wall Street, the New York Stock Exchange was the high temple of American capitalism.
 Behind its Greco-Roman facade, traders raised a Dante-esque din in their pursuit of the almighty dollar. Good times or bad, the daily melee on the cavernous trading floor made the Big Board the greatest marketplace for stocks in the world. 
 But now, even as the Dow Jones industrial average topped 10,000 for the first time since the financial crisis sent it tumbling, the exchange and its hometown face an unsettling truth: the Big Board, the symbolic heart of New York's financial industry, is getting smaller. 
 Young, fast-moving rivals are splintering its public marketplace and creating private markets that, their critics say, give big banks and investment funds an edge over ordinary investors. 
 Some of the new trading venues -- ''dark pools,'' the industry calls them -- are all but invisible, even to regulators. These stealth markets enable sophisticated traders to buy and sell large blocks of stock in secrecy at lightning speed, a practice that has drawn scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 These upstarts are utterly unlike the old-school Big Board, which is struggling to make its way as a for-profit corporation after centuries of ownership by its seat-holding members. Last year, its parent company, NYSE Euronext, lost $740 million. 
 Wall Street's judgment has been swift and brutal. Since January 2007, the share price of NYSE Euronext has lost nearly three-quarters of its value, even though stock trading over all has soared. 
 While the exchange has been under assault since the beginning of the decade, its decline has accelerated in recent years as aggressive competitors have emerged. Today, 36 percent of daily trades in stocks that are listed on the New York Stock Exchange are actually executed on the exchange, down from about 75 percent nearly four years ago. The rest of are conducted elsewhere, on new electronic exchanges or through dark pools. 
 The old Big Board was far from perfect. Its floor brokers -- who occupy a privileged, and potentially lucrative, niche between buyers and sellers -- have sometimes enriched themselves at their customers' expense. 
 But changes inside the exchange's grand Main Hall are startling. For decades, the New York Exchange was the kind of place where sons followed their fathers onto the trading floor. But half of the jobs there have disappeared over the last five years. Many of the 1,200 or so remaining workers retreat quietly to their computers shortly after the opening bell clangs at 9:30 a.m.
 The Big Board has been forced to close one of its five trading halls, and it has repopulated two others with business from the American Stock Exchange, which NYSE Euronext bought last year. The Main Hall -- the soaring, gilded room opened in 1903 -- can seem little more than a colorful backdrop for CNBC. 
 ''It has not been pretty,'' said Benn Steil of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. ''All the big established exchanges around the world have experienced the same phenomenon, but the New York Stock Exchange has taken the biggest beating.'' 
 It is a remarkable comedown for the New York Exchange, and for New York. Once the undisputed capital of capital, the city is struggling to retain its dominance in finance as the industry globalizes. ''Wall Street'' seems to be no longer a place, but a vast, worldwide network of money and information. 
 The Big Board says that it is fighting back -- and that its hybrid of computers and human traders can beat the new rivals. It slashed commissions and developed its own purely electronic exchange, Arca, in Chicago. Arca has captured about 11 percent of the market for Big Board-listed stocks. It is also winning business in areas like derivatives.
 ''What's going on here is a reinvention,'' said Lawrence Leibowitz, head of United States markets and global technology at NYSE Euronext. ''How can you bring this institution forward into the 21st century?''
 Proponents of the new exchanges and private trading systems contend that ordinary people benefit from the technologies whether they know it or not. 
 ''Competition has benefited the average investor,'' said William O'Brien, chief executive of Direct Edge, one of the new exchanges. ''Their broker has so many choices available, on or off exchanges, anywhere in the world, and they can get their order executed in less than a second.'' 
 Critics maintain that only the most sophisticated players are benefiting, able to execute their trades seconds before smaller investors and in private. 
 ''There are tools now that certain investors have that give them an advantage over other investors,'' said Joseph Saluzzi, who trades equities for institutional investors and hedge funds at his boutique brokerage, Themis Trading. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is beginning to take notice of such complaints, opening investigations into the new type of trading venues and promising action. It is worried, for example, that dark pools, with their scale unknown, could destabilize the market. 
 Unlike the Big Board, the new electronic exchanges are virtually unknown outside financial circles. Direct Edge, the largest, is in Jersey City. Another, the BATS Exchange, is based in Lenexa, Kan. Both are only about five years old. But each now accounts for about a 10th of daily United States stock trading. 
 In its fight to survive, the Big Board is building a new data center in New Jersey and another outside London. The Main Hall is being overhauled, in an attempt to lure business back to the floor. There is even a new coffee shop, Outtakes.
 Even so, the world still watches -- literally -- what happens on the New York Stock Exchange. Twenty television networks broadcast live from the exchange, in nine languages. 
 But whichever way the market goes from here, many see a difficult road for the Big Board. The competition is unlikely to let up. 
 ''There has been a sea change,'' said Sang Lee of the Aite Group, a financial services consulting company. ''I don't envy what any of the exchanges have to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trading at the BATS Exchange in Lenexa, Kan., is a world away from the shouting on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ZURGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) CHARTS: THE SHRINKING BIG BOARD: Faster computers, regulatory changes and aggressive new rivals have eaten away at the New York Stock Exchange's share of trading in stocks listed on its own exchange. (Sources: NYSE Euronext
Nasdaq OMX
TABB Group
 BATS Exchange) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%)

COMPANY: NYSE EURONEXT INC (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: NYX (PAR) (82%); NYX (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



408 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Guide for Online Networking

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH POPE

 BODY:
THE last time Mac McCabe looked for consulting work with sustainable businesses, it was a different world. ''Back in the early '90s, the socially responsible business world was so small I knew everyone coast to coast,'' said Mr. McCabe, 62, of Portland, Me. 
 These days Mr. McCabe, the head of an organic restaurant chain where business has slowed, is in the market for consulting work again. So he pulled out his Rolodex and started phoning old friends. ''I soon discovered there's a whole new generation and they communicate in different ways,'' he said. 
To get up to speed, he registered a domain name and tried to start a blog, linking it to social media networks like Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. ''Pretty soon I was in over my head and I knew I needed help,'' he said.
 As networking has migrated to the Web, many older adults find themselves unfamiliar with online job-hunting tools. They are likely to be ''digital immigrants'' who must learn the language and culture of the Internet Age, said Marc Prensky, the author of ''Digital Game-Based Learning'' and an expert on generational change and education. ''And your best cultural guide is a younger person,'' he said, ''a digital native, born into a world of computers, video games and instant messaging.''
 According to an online survey by Knowledge Networks for the Center for Work-Life Policy in New York, older adults are actively seeking technical help from younger generations. Forty percent of the 1,595 people surveyed reported asking younger colleagues for help with iTunes, text-messaging and social networking, said Laura Sherbin, an economist with the center. 
 ''Gen Y and boomers who are close to retirement have incredible synergy because they want the same things -- autonomy and flexibility,'' Ms. Sherbin said. ''So they work very well together.''
 In September, Mr. McCabe sought help from Bethany Round, his wife's colleague at the University of Southern Maine, who has blogged personally and professionally since 2001. After a couple of tutorials, he started a blog (www.macmccabe.com), linked it to Twitter, wrote a Facebook profile and sent a mass e-mail message to his friends. 
 ''I could have figured all of this out myself, but it would have taken ages,'' Mr. McCabe said. ''Beth's fingers just flew over the keyboard.''
 Blogs and social media are excellent marketing devices for job-hunters and much cheaper than Web sites or newsletters, said Ms. Round, 37, who is assistant director of the university's honors program. ''It's amazing how quickly people start following you,'' she said. ''You'll reach people seeking advice or information or who ask provocative questions. It's a good way to get your name out there.'' 
 More than 60 percent of Generation Y -- those born between 1979 and 1994 -- participate in online social media, according to the Center for Work-Life Policy research. Young people can sometimes spot job leads overlooked by their elders. 
 Dick Goldberg, a playwright in Philadelphia, always enjoyed using his musical and writing skills to raise money for his favorite charities. One day he told his family that if the right nonprofit position came along, he would leap at it.
 ''My daughter Rosa, said, 'Well, Dad, if you're serious about becoming a social change agent, you should take a look at Idealist.org.' '' 
 Mr. Goldberg, 62, had never heard of the site, which lists paid and volunteer positions with nonprofit organizations, but through it he landed a job as director of Coming of Age, a Philadelphia nonprofit that helps adults 50 and older find paid and unpaid work in the social sector. 
 ''I freelanced for more than two decades and this was the only job I applied for,'' he said. ''All because Rosa, who just turned 29, sent me in the right direction.'' 
 After five years of running Coming of Age, Mr. Goldberg is now replicating the program in other cities and helping Idealist.org with a national training program. 
 IN the online world, job-hunting assistance from a younger generation can even come from the other side of the world. Claire LeSage, 62, of Norton, Mass., was pondering a second career after retiring last year from a Boston-area moving company. Her 31-year-old nephew, a Navy officer stationed in Okinawa, Japan, was her adviser as she began a relocation business, At Wittz End. 
 ''He thought this was a great business idea,'' Ms. LeSage said, adding that her nephew set her up on Skype, an Internet telephone service, ''and talked me off a lot of ledges, particularly in the early stages when money was tight.'' 
 Encouraged by her nephew, Ms. LeSage developed a Web site and joined the Chamber of Commerce and BNI International, a business networking service, to build her business. Chamber members in their 20s and 30s have also given her advice on how to set fees and manage clients. 
 ''It's amazing what information you can learn from younger people,'' she said. ''I hate giving public presentations, but they coached me and now I'm 100 percent better.'' 
 For Mr. McCabe, mastering 21st-century social media and blogging tools for job-hunting is a continuing adventure. ''It's like learning a new language,'' he said. 
 The comparison is apt, according to Mr. Prensky, who says some digital immigrants may always speak with an ''accent,'' printing out e-mail messages or reading the user's manual instead of experimenting with new software.
 But bewildered older job-hunters are not alone, he added. ''Smart immigrants have always relied on the younger generation to learn the language,'' he said. ''Kids today are eager to help, because sharing information is part of their culture. Get their phone numbers and call whenever you have a question. They love to pass this stuff around.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ASK AN EXPERT: When Mac McCabe, 62, wanted to use blogs and social media in his consulting work, he turned to Bethany Round.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL PAGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (78%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); INSTANT MESSAGING (74%); GENERATION Y (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (72%); DOMAIN NAMES (69%); EMAIL MARKETING (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (67%); COMPUTER GAMES (66%); WRITERS (66%); TEXT MESSAGING (64%); RESTAURANTS (56%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (91%) MAINE, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



409 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: How Biology Influences Our Behavior

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 David Brooks's terrific Oct. 13 column, ''The Young and the Neuro,'' addresses the interdisciplinary nature of the research being done today in cognitive neuroscience. Far from being merely the domain of medicine or sociology, it is a new discipline being forged through the fusion of biotechnology, psychology, physiology, and political and social science.
 In the future, no single scholarly field will flourish without interrelationships with others. That this truth is being recognized is apparent in the Nobel committee's decision to award the prize in economics to Elinor Ostrom, a political scientist at Indiana University. 
 University administrators should be aware that other areas that are usually relegated to ''the arts'' are also involved in cognitive science, including theater and performance studies, which has been examining how mirror neurons are engaged when audiences watch plays or view films.
 Mr. Brooks is to be commended for recognizing the value of interdisciplinarity. Let us not forget, especially at a time when university budgets are being drastically cut, that those of us working in the humanities are contributing to ''neurohumanism'' as well.
 Linda Charnes Bloomington, Ind., Oct. 13, 2009
 The writer is a professor of English and West European studies at Indiana University.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks heralds the new way that we will be analyzing our behavior, so that we will more fully understand how we react to events and to others. But there is one flaw in Mr. Brooks's conclusion. He declares that the categories ''emotion'' and ''reason'' will no longer be relevant.
 On the contrary, this new ''social cognitive neuroscience'' will highlight the way our reactions are determined by our emotions rather than our reason. We will finally begin to understand scientifically what psychologists have understood for decades: how most of our actions stem from our emotions rather than our rational thought.
 Mark Ettinger New York, Oct. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 For decades, the psychoanalytic community has been helping patients to lead more productive, satisfying lives by searching for the conscious and unconscious motivations behind their actions, attitudes and behaviors. Our work has lately come under attack as being unscientific, but David Brooks describes just how our clinical theories intersect with empirical research and wider social concerns.
 With the benefit of new technology, young scientists can scan brain processes and demonstrate how the unconscious brain affects behaviors and how human attachments are developed or altered. As psychoanalysts, we struggle to retain credibility in the health care debate, to get reimbursements from insurance companies and to get a seat at the table of political and cultural discourse.
 We need to rethink the way we define what we do and challenge the perception of the analyst as insular and out of touch. An article like Mr. Brooks's confirms that we are relevant. I hope that the young scientists can help us find a better way to engage.
 Mindy Utay New York, Oct. 14, 2009
 The writer is a social worker and psychoanalyst in private practice.
 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks writes: ''The anterior cingulate cortices in American and Chinese brains activate when people see members of their own group endure pain, but they do so at much lower levels when they see members of another group enduring it. These effects may form the basis of prejudice.''
 Aren't these effects simply a result of prejudice? Is the biochemical process the basis of prejudice or is prejudice the basis for a biochemical process taking place? To simply assume that a biochemical correlate of a social activity is its explanation is bad science, even if chemical reactions look less ''fuzzy'' than the materials of social and cultural life.
 James Slotta Portland, Ore., Oct. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks seems to consider it delightful that the social cognitive neuroscientists he saw at a recent academic conference were ''young, hip and attractive.'' But as an un-hip 62-year-old professor in a different field, I wonder whether the ''geeks'' and ''graying professors'' whose absence Mr. Brooks seems to celebrate were not there because they would be unwelcome.
 Such discrimination would be not only immoral but also foolish, since even the old and un-hip just might have something to offer intellectually.
 Felicia Nimue Ackerman Providence, R.I., Oct. 13, 2009
 The writer is a professor of philosophy at Brown University. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); BRAIN (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); BUDGETS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (55%); THEATER (54%); INSURANCE (50%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



410 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 ZIMBABWE POLITICAL LEADER 
 Jailed on Terrorism Charge
 Roy Bennett, a leader of the political party that long fought Zimbabwe's president but now shares power with him, was sent to prison in the eastern city of Mutare and formally indicted on terrorism charges. PAGE A6
 PROTEST BY RUSSIAN PARTIES 
 Opposition parties in Russia's Parliament, which have long been relatively docile allies of the Kremlin, staged a walkout to protest what they contended was pervasive fraud in local elections. PAGE A14
 6 KILLED IN BLASTS IN IRAQ
 Three homemade bombs exploded without warning in the midst of crowds who had stopped to gather for evening prayers in southern Iraq's Shiite holy city of Karbala, and the police and government officials said at least 6 people were killed and 45 wounded. PAGE A12
 National
 LITTLE IMPROVEMENT SEEN
 In National Math Scores
 The latest results on the most important nationwide math test show that scores increased only marginally for eighth graders and not at all for fourth graders, continuing a sluggish six-year trend of slowing achievement growth since passage of the No Child Left Behind law. PAGE A18
 STATES LAG IN RECOVERY
 The recent signs of possible improvement in the economy have not trickled down to the states, which continued to be pummeled this spring by the steepest drop-offs in tax collections since comparable data was first compiled nearly half a century ago. PAGE A22
 White House Joins Health Talks A24
 New York
 A DAY OF TRANSIT TROUBLES: PROTEST OR JUST WEDNESDAY?
 It was billed as a Day of Outrage, when angry transit workers would slow down the system. But subway and bus riders in New York City called it something else: just another day. PAGE A33
 REAL ESTATE FRAUD CHARGES
 In 2007, Henry Vargas sold what he said was his stake in a plum piece of Harlem real estate for millions of dollars. There was one problem: he didn't own the property at all, prosecutors said, in announcing his indictment. PAGE A30 
 Business
 U.S. WANTS MORE BANKS TO PAY BACK TARP FUNDS
 Concluding that some of the nation's biggest banks are healthy enough to raise capital from private investors, Treasury officials would like more of them to repay the taxpayer money that bailed them out. PAGE B1 
 INQUIRY INTO NUTRITION LABELS
 The Connecticut attorney general is investigating Smart Choices, a program that labels food products -- including Froot Loops and mayonnaise -- as ''nutritionally smart choices.'' PAGE B1 
 TIMES CO. WILL KEEP GLOBE
 After months of hunting for a buyer, The New York Times Company decided not to sell The Boston Globe. PAGE B1 
 CAMERAS DAZZLE WITH STUNTS
 New cameras offer sparkling abilities, but the pictures need some oomph, David Pogue writes. State of the Art. PAGE B1 
 REDSTONE TO SELL SHARES
 Sumner M. Redstone's National Amusements said it would sell nearly $1 billion worth of shares in Viacom and CBS to pay down its large debt load. PAGE B6 
 Sports
 BINGHAMTON COACH PLACED
 On Leave of Absence
 Binghamton University placed its men's basketball coach, Kevin Broadus, on a paid leave of absence, the latest blow to a program and university in turmoil. Broadus led the team last season to its first appearance in the N.C.A.A. tournament, but several high-profile arrests in his three years as coach have come to overshadow the program. PAGE B17
 Arts
 REMEMBERING THE LIFE
 Of a Hollywood Iconoclast
 ''Robert Altman: The Oral Biography,'' looks at the life of the prolific film director, and Janet Maslin writes that the star-studded remembrances of him embrace the paradoxes of the man and his career. 
 Singer on the Verge of a Tantrum C6
 Home
 BED, BATH
 And the Great Beyond
 The horror film ''Paranormal Activity'' is on the verge of become a pop-cult sensation. Most of the very low-budget film takes place in the real-life bedroom of its director, an artistic choice that required making some home improvements -- like purchasing an actual bed. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 IS THE EXERCISE COOL-DOWN
 Really Necessary?
 The cool-down is enshrined in training lore. But there is little agreement among researchers about what a cool-down is supposed to look like, and what it is supposed to accomplish. PAGE E1
 Obituaries
 CAPTAIN LOU ALBANO, 76
 The pro wrestling villain who reinvented himself as a pop culture celebrity in a Cyndi Lauper music video and in movies and television. PAGE B13
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); STRIKES (76%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MATHEMATICS (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); TRENDS (67%); FOOD LABELING (64%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (52%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (80%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



411 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Off the Shelf, Onto the Laptop, Libraries Turn to Digital Books

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Kate Lambert recalls using her library card just once or twice throughout her childhood. Now, she uses it several times a month.
 The lure? Electronic books she can download to her laptop. Beginning earlier this year, Ms. Lambert, a 19-year-old community college student in New Port Richey, Fla., borrowed volumes in the ''Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy'' series, ''The Lovely Bones'' by Alice Sebold and a vampire novel by Laurell K. Hamilton, without ever visiting an actual branch.
 ''I can just go online and type my library card number in and look through all the books that they have,'' said Ms. Lambert, who usually downloads from the comfort of her bedroom. And, she added, ''It's all for free.''
 Eager to attract digitally savvy patrons and capitalize on the growing popularity of electronic readers, public libraries across the country are expanding collections of books that reside on servers rather than shelves. 
 The idea is to capture borrowers who might not otherwise use the library, as well as to give existing customers the opportunity to try new formats. 
 ''People still think of libraries as old dusty books on shelves, and it's a perception we're always trying to fight,'' said Michael Colford, director of information technology at the Boston Public Library. ''If we don't provide this material for them, they are just going to stop using the library altogether.'' 
 About 5,400 public libraries now offer e-books, as well as digitally downloadable audio books. The collections are still tiny compared with print troves. The New York Public Library, for example, has about 18,300 e-book titles, compared with 860,500 in circulating print titles, and purchases of digital books represent less than 1 percent of the library's overall acquisition budget. 
 But circulation is expanding quickly. The number of checkouts has grown to more than 1 million so far this year from 607,275 in all of 2007, according to OverDrive, a large provider of e-books to public libraries. NetLibrary, another provider of e-books to about 5,000 public libraries and a division of OCLC, a nonprofit library service organization, has seen circulation of e-books and digital audio books rise 21 percent over the past year.
 Together with the Google books settlement -- which the parties are modifying to satisfy the objections of the Department of Justice and others -- the expansion of e-books into libraries heralds a future in which more reading will be done digitally.
 ''As young people become used to reading virtually everything online,'' said Paul LeClerc, president of the New York Public Library, ''that is going to propel a change in terms of readership of e-books rather than readership of physical books.'' 
 For now, the expansion will be slowed partly because, with few exceptions, e-books in libraries cannot be read on Amazon's Kindle, the best-selling electronic reader, or on Apple's iPhone, which has rapidly become a popular device for reading e-books. Most library editions are compatible with the Sony Reader, computers and a handful of other mobile devices.
 Most digital books in libraries are treated like printed ones: only one borrower can check out an e-book at a time, and for popular titles, patrons must wait in line just as they do for physical books. After two to three weeks, the e-book automatically expires from a reader's account. 
 But some publishers worry that the convenience of borrowing books electronically could ultimately cut into sales of print editions.
 ''I don't have to get in my car, go to the library, look at the book, check it out,'' said John Sargent, chief executive of Macmillan, which publishes authors like Janet Evanovich, Augusten Burroughs and Jeffrey Eugenides. ''Instead, I'm sitting in the comfort of my living room and can say, 'Oh, that looks interesting' and download it.'' 
 As digital collections grow, Mr. Sargent said he feared a world in which ''pretty soon you're not paying for anything.'' Partly because of such concerns, Macmillan does not allow its e-books to be offered in public libraries. 
 Simon & Schuster, whose authors include Stephen King and Bob Woodward, has also refrained from distributing its e-books to public libraries. ''We have not found a business model that works for us and our authors,'' said Adam Rothberg, a spokesman. 
 For now, the advent of e-book borrowing has not threatened physical libraries by siphoning away visitors because the recession has driven so many new users seeking free resources through library doors. And in some cases, few library patrons seem to know that e-book collections even exist. 
 In the Brooklyn Public Library system recently, eight people were waiting for three digital copies of ''The Lost Symbol,'' Dan Brown's follow-up to ''The Da Vinci Code,'' while 715 people were waiting for 526 print copies.
 Some librarians suggest that because digital books never wear out, take up no shelf space and could, in theory, be read by multiple people at the same time, the purchasing model for e-books should be different than it is for print. 
 Pam Sandlian Smith, library director of the Rangeview Library District, which serves a suburban community north of Denver, said that instead of purchasing a set number of digital copies of a book, she would prefer to buy one copy and pay a nominal licensing fee each time a patron downloaded it. 
 Publishers, inevitably, are nervous about allowing too much of their intellectual property to be offered free. Brian Murray, the chief executive of HarperCollins Publishers Worldwide, said Ms. Smith's proposal was ''not a sustainable model for publishers or authors.''
 Some librarians object to the current pricing model because they often pay more for e-books than do consumers who buy them on Amazon or in Sony's online store. Publishers generally charge the same price for e-books as they do for print editions, but online retailers subsidize the sale price of best sellers by marking them down to $9.99. 
 '' 'The Lost Symbol' is $9.99 on the Sony Reader book page, and I just paid $29.99 for that for the library,'' said Robin Bradford, the collection development librarian at the Indianapolis-Marion County Public Library. Ms. Bradford said she would consider buying additional digital copies if the price were lower. But ''to buy nonphysical copies at the same price,'' she said, ''I just won't do it.'' 
 Academic publishers have been more willing to experiment with subscription models, inviting libraries to pay an annual fee for unlimited access to certain books. Scholastic Inc., the children's book publisher, also offers library subscriptions to BookFlix, a collection of picture books that children can read online. 
 Steve Potash, the chief executive of OverDrive, said publishers should regard library e-books as a form of marketing. Many people who browse a library's online catalog end up buying the books, he said, although he could provide no evidence of that.
 Some publishers agree that library e-books, like print versions, can attract new customers. ''We've always strongly believed that there is a conversion point where they do start to buy their own,'' said Malle Vallik, the director of digital content at Harlequin Enterprises, the romance publisher. 
 In libraries, readers are attracted to free material. Nancy Gobel, a dental hygienist who already downloads digital audio books from her library in Indianapolis, said she currently buys print books. But she is considering purchasing an electronic reader so she can borrow them for free. ''I would still continue to buy, but I would download as much as I can,'' she said. In many cases, she said, buying ''doesn't make sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Instead of heading for the library stacks, Kate Lambert, a community college student in New Port Richey, Fla., downloads books from the public library onto her laptop, usually from her bedroom.
 Ms. Lambert types in her library card number to select books online through the Lee County Library System. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL C. WEIMAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LIBRARY TECHNOLOGY (58%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (57%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



412 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: New York City and the Homeless

 BODY:
New Yorkers in and out of government should be concerned by new statistics showing that homelessness has reached an all-time high and that 120,000 men, women and children resorted to the shelter system during the fiscal year that ended this summer. The spike in homelessness is especially troubling because it has arrived before the onset of winter, which typically drives people in off the streets, filling the shelter system to bursting. 
 The Bloomberg administration says it is fully prepared for the winter rush and has been adjusting all along for a rise in demand for shelter that began two years ago. Even so, the administration should keep looking down the road to determine if new populations are becoming vulnerable and if new policies might be needed to keep endangered families in their homes.
 The city attributes most of the rise in homelessness to the economy. It says the problem is not as bad here as in other cities and would be worse if not for refinements in the system, including programs that channel people into permanent homes and that prevent at-risk families from becoming homeless in the first place. The administration points with justifiable pride to the fact that the shelter system is more humane than it was a decade ago. 
 Advocates for the homeless and the hungry, however, continue to be suspicious of the city's motives. They argue that the city has driven some vulnerable families to the brink with bureaucratic obstacles that make it difficult for qualified families to receive welfare and food-stamp benefits. A bone of contention between the advocates and the city dates to 2005 when Mayor Michael Bloomberg ended the practice of channeling shelter residents into apartments paid for by the federal Section 8 housing voucher program, which was then under attack by the Bush administration and in disfavor with Congress.
 Under Section 8, people keep subsidies as long as they remain income eligible. In 2007, New York created a time-limited program under which working families get support services and rent subsidies that end after two years. The point was to get as many families as possible to stand on their own, but the advocates are predicting disaster when the subsidies run out and are calling for the city to return to the Section 8 strategy. The Bloomberg administration contends that this program has worked well and that only a tiny fraction of the families have reverted to homelessness. But the city should keep a close watch on these families as the subsidies phase out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); PUBLIC HOUSING (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); FOOD STAMPS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



413 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: In Target-Date Funds, Hidden Homework

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
THE financial world has spent the last decade marketing what it calls target-date funds as the no-worries answer to saving for retirement. The concept seems clear enough: figure out the year you want to retire, then choose the fund with the target date closest to that year. 
 For instance, someone born in 1957 who aims to retire at age 65, in 2022, would select a 2020 target-date fund, as the dates are in five-year intervals. And that is pretty much all the investor needs to do. 
The fund company assembles a mix of stocks, bonds and other securities supposedly just right for that age group, adjusting the allotments as the markets shift and gradually inching out of stocks and into less risky investments as the investors age. 
 Employees who were bored by financial research or overwhelmed by the idea of making investment decisions gladly grabbed the offer. By spring 2007, nearly 10 percent of 401(k) assets had flowed into those funds, according to the benefits consulting firm Hewitt Associates, of Lincolnshire, Ill. 
 Then came the market collapse of 2008. 
 People in their 60s and late 50s with funds dated 2010 and 2015 were flabbergasted that their accounts had lost a quarter of their value, on average, as calculated by Morningstar, the fund research service. More surprising was that these funds typically had about half their holdings in stocks, and most of them did not significantly reduce that percentage until the investors were in their 70s or older. 
 How could an investment specifically aimed at someone retiring in just a few years be so heavily into stocks? Shouldn't the money be tucked in less risky options, like bonds and money market instruments? Congress, the Labor Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission all held hearings looking into the funds' marketing and investment strategies. 
 ''The problem with target-date funds is that the underlying message has been, 'Look Ma, no hands!' '' said Steve Vernon, a financial adviser in Oxnard, Calif. ''They tried to make them idiot-proof. But if you put your money in a fund without knowing what they're invested in, you're an idiot.'' 
 Fund managers say the underlying concept remains sound. People may live 30 years after retirement, and historically stocks provide a higher return over the long term than any other investment. Thus, said Cynthia L. Egan, president of the Retirement Plan Services division at the mutual fund company T. Rowe Price, ''the target-date fund has been designed to be able to sustain their assets for the next 30 years and to outpace inflation.'' 
 The companies also contend that most customers understood this. Still, under pressure from government officials, the managers are considering some minor tweaks in their marketing.
 ''I think you're going to see more graphics to illustrate the concept of the glide path,'' or the way the mix changes over time, said John Ameriks, head of investment counseling and research at the Vanguard Group, one of the largest administrators of 401(k) plans. 
 Others foresee simpler language, warnings about the stock percentage in bigger or bolder print, and clearer examples of what happens when markets drop. But no firm seems to be shifting its basic investment philosophy. 
 That means that unhappy 401(k) participants will have to do exactly what they had hoped to avoid by turning to target-date funds: study the options and make decisions. 
 The easiest solution is to choose a different date. ''Just because you're going to retire around 2020 doesn't mean a Target 2020 fund fits your risk profile,'' said Joseph Montanaro, an adviser with the financial services company USAA in San Antonio. Conservative investors who hope to retire in 2020 but who do not want a lot of stocks could take a 2010 fund, which would have more bonds. 
 For that matter, Mr. Montanaro added, investors could compare same-date funds from different companies. T. Rowe Price keeps its customers 26 percent in stocks as late as age 90 (assuming the person retired at 65), while Fidelity Investments cuts the stock holding to about 20 percent by age 80. 
 Yet most employees do not have this choice, because the majority of 401(k) plans offer target-date options from only a single fund company. However, Robert A. Liberto, a senior vice president at Segal Advisors in New York, said some employers were making that comparison themselves and shifting the whole plan to fund managers whose target-date funds left stocks faster. 
 ''They don't want to be in a position where there's another down market, and people that are in retirement are hurt,'' he said. 
 Another tactic is to keep the bulk of the assets in the target-date fund that most closely matches the intended retirement date, but allocate about a third of the money to a conservative fund that does not use the target-date approach, like a bond fund. 
 Of course, employees could abandon the target-date idea entirely and put their money into a mix of stocks, bonds and other investments that makes them comfortable. 
 PAMELA HESS, Hewitt's director of retirement research, said she thought older employees in particular should consider switching. ''As you get closer to retirement, things like what your spouse has, what other savings you have, make investing more complex,'' she said. ''The one-size-fits-all isn't going to fit as well to someone who is closer to retirement.'' 
 Because target-date funds are almost always mutual funds within a 401(k) plan's menu of investment options, no transfer fees should be assessed, Mr. Ameriks of Vanguard said. 
 In any case, Ms. Hess and other analysts said, investors should consider two factors carefully before selecting a target date: the percentage of the fund that is in stocks at various ages, which should be clearly marked in the glide path, and their own tolerance for risk. 
 To assess risk tolerance, they can try quizzes offered online by many mutual fund companies and financial planning Web sites. A typical question, from Vanguard, notes, ''From September 2008 through November 2008, stocks lost over 31 percent.'' What would you do if that should happen again, it asks -- sell, hold or buy? 
 ''Scream'' is not one of the choices. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LOOKING AHEAD: Pamela Hess, director of retirement research at Hewitt Associates, speaking with a colleague, Winfield Evans, before a speech in Chicago. Ms. Hess advises workers nearing retirement to consider moving their 401(k) accounts away from target-date funds.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



414 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Industry Built From Scratch

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: MADISON, Pa. 

 BODY:
On one side of a factory here, workers dump 500-pound sacks of pine chips into a hopper. Deep inside the plant, an 8,000-degree blow torch roars like a jet engine as the chips are processed. At the far end, the workers turn a tap and out pours ethanol, ready for use as a motor fuel.
 The facility, built by a company called Coskata, is not quite proof that a new era is at hand for American transportation fuels. But with the company claiming it will be able to convert wood waste into biofuel for about $1 a gallon, the plant suggests that day may be drawing nearer. 
 ''We're so close, we can really touch this now,'' said William J. Roe, the chief executive of Coskata.
 Across the country, start-up companies and major corporations are trying to produce biofuel without relying on food crops the way corn-based ethanol does. Congress has already guaranteed these companies a market if they can make the fuel, and the government has given some of them construction grants. The companies have raised millions from investors.
 The results of all this effort are starting to show. Pilot facilities are going up, companies are testing their production lines, and they are starting to make better estimates of the likely costs.
 None of these facilities is yet operating on anything like the scale that will be needed to offset a big portion of the nation's oil imports. That era, if it ever comes, is still years away. In fact, no company in the United States even claims to be making commercial sales yet at any significant scale. (Iogen, a Canadian firm backed by Shell, makes ethanol from wheat straw and supplied a Shell station in Ottawa for a month last summer.) 
 But increasingly, it is possible to visit real plants and see production methods that appear to be working. The plant here, the fruit of $50 million in research and construction, is to be unveiled on Thursday. 
 It is 65 feet tall, an impressive maze of tanks and pipes. Though some of them resemble the components that would be needed in a full-scale plant, the capacity of the facility is only about 50,000 gallons a year, perhaps 1 percent of the output that would be needed for a commercial-scale plant. The company's goal is to work the kinks out of its production method, and get a better handle on costs, before going to full size.
 Coskata -- whose investors include General Motors, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla and the Blackstone Group investment house -- has moved toward the front of a crowded field of companies trying to produce fuel from garbage, construction and demolition waste, trees or special crops. Many hope to acquire their raw material for a few dollars a ton, or to use materials that usually go to garbage dumps.
 In 2007, Congress set a national goal of creating an advanced biofuel industry, and established a quota for gasoline marketers to blend a modest 100 million gallons of such fuel into gasoline by 2010. The goal is not only to lower the nation's oil imports, but also its emissions of the gases that cause global warming. 
 Burning oil or other fossil fuels releases carbon that was buried underground for millions of years into the air as carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. With advanced biofuels, plants would suck carbon dioxide out of the air as they grew, then be turned a few months or years later into biofuel. When the fuel was burned, carbon dioxide would go back into the air. In principle, the process would be neutral on emissions.
 The industry is likely to miss Congress's initial quota of 100 million gallons next year, acknowledging that it will make a few million gallons of the advanced fuel, at most. It could fall even further behind the 2011 quota, 250 million gallons. The quota eventually rises to 16 billion gallons by 2022. 
 The industry partly blames the credit crisis for its slow pace, but acknowledges that getting the conversion techniques to work is the biggest problem.
 ''It's certainly turned out to be more complicated technically than people thought it would be,'' said Brian Foody, the president and chief executive of Iogen, which hopes to build a large-scale facility.
 At BP America, Tom Mueller, a spokesman, also acknowledged slow progress in his company's joint venture with Verenium, in Louisiana. ''We aren't seeing fundamental technology issues; it's more a matter of optimizing the engineering of the pots and pans we use to do the cooking, so to speak,'' he said. The two companies are seeking an Energy Department loan for construction of a biofuels plant in Highlands County, Fla.
 Also prominent in the chase is Range Fuels, a Colorado company in which Mr. Khosla is an investor. Despite some delays, it says it is about half done with construction of a full-scale plant in Soperton, Ga., that will use wood chips and produce ethanol, but by a different method than Coskata's. 
 The waste material the companies are processing is rich in energy-containing substances like cellulose, a structural material from plants.
 Some companies use steam, chemicals or enzymes to break down the cellulose so that sugars locked inside can be freed and fed to yeasts to make alcohol. Others break the cellulose into simpler components, like hydrogen and carbon monoxide. These can be re-formed into hydrocarbon molecules that can be used in place of gasoline or diesel.
 Coskata uses a plasma torch, which shoots 8,000-degree jets of air at twice the speed of sound, to blast wood chips into hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Those gases are pumped into a tank of bacteria that feed on them and excrete ethanol. For each ton of pine chips, the pilot plant produces about 100 gallons of ethanol. Many people in the industry say they believe the economics should work at that yield.
 Coskata plans to own some biorefineries and license its technology to others. According to Wesley J. Bolsen, Coskata's chief marketing officer, ''the question is how rapidly we can scale.''
 As their testing proceeds, some people in this nascent industry are starting to believe they could replace a fair portion of the nation's petroleum imports, probably with different types of technology adapted to various kinds of waste.
 ''You look at the scale of the opportunity,'' said Mr. Foody, of Iogen, ''and it's hard to believe there won't be multiple winners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Coskata's small-scale ethanol plant in Madison, Pa. The factory, through a process that includes a torch, converts tons of wood chips into fuel.(pg. B1)
 ''We're so close,'' said William J. Roe, above, head of Coskata, on his company's efforts.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B10) CHART: Next-Generation Biofuels: Across the country, companies are planning or building plants that will produce biofuels from materials other than food, such as wood chips, straw or even garbage. This map shows selected facilities that are under development.(Source: Biotechnology Industry Organization)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (91%); BIOMASS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ALCOHOLS (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); STARTUPS (68%); IMPORT TRADE (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: COSKATA INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY ORGANIZATION (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); BX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325193 ETHYL ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: VINOD KHOSLA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



415 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Reform and Your Premiums

 BODY:
After months of seeming mostly supportive of health care reform -- and just before the Senate Finance Committee was set to vote on its bill -- the leading industry trade group issued an inflammatory and utterly self-serving report alleging that the committee's bill would drive up premium costs for Americans by thousands of additional dollars a year.
 The committee sensibly went ahead and approved the bill. But the anxiety raised by the report needs to be addressed head-on. 
 There are so many factors in all of the versions of health reform legislation that could affect the cost of insurance -- driving it up or down -- that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has been unable to offer an estimate of the net impact. A rigorous assessment must be made as the bills proceed through Congress. 
 Most analysts already agree that the industry's report was so deliberately skewed to produce frightening results that it deserves little credence. 
 The analysis was commissioned by the trade group America's Health Insurance Plans and prepared by PricewaterhouseCoopers, a big accounting firm. It looked only at four components of the Finance Committee's bill that have the potential to drive up premiums while ignoring other components that would likely drive down the cost of insurance for huge numbers of people. 
 The report claimed that the hardest hit would be people without large group coverage -- namely those who work for small employers or buy policies directly from insurance companies. It claims that their premiums would go up by 49 percent for individual purchasers and 28 percent for small employers -- mostly because the proposed regulations would require insurers to accept all applicants without regard to health status, while the penalty for anyone who decides not buy insurance would be late and comparatively small. 
 As a result, the report argued, healthy people would find it easy to defer coverage, leaving only sicker people in the insurance pool, where their higher average medical costs would inevitably drive up premiums.
 We agree with the industry that the mandate -- the requirement that nearly all Americans buy insurance or pay a penalty -- should probably be stronger, and we wish the subsidies offered were more generous. But the rest of the argument is deeply flawed.
 First, under the legislation, anyone who currently has a policy that turns out to be cheaper than those sold on the exchanges will be allowed to keep it.
 An analysis by Jonathan Gruber, a respected health economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, using data generated by the Congressional Budget Office, demonstrates that even in its current form the Finance Committee's bill would actually save individuals and families who currently buy their own policies hundreds if not thousands of dollars in annual premiums. 
 This is because policies offered on the highly regulated, competitive exchanges would probably be cheaper than comparable coverage available on today's overpriced individual market.
 In a particularly glaring omission, the industry report made no effort to factor in the effect of proposed subsidies that would help millions of people to buy their own insurance on those exchanges. The subsidies would help people earning less than four times the poverty level, or about $88,000 annually for a family of four.
 The industry report also claims that Americans who currently buy their insurance through large employers would see their premiums rise by 9 percent to 11 percent, depending on the form of coverage. It blames most of that on a new excise tax on high-cost insurance policies. Under the Senate Finance Committee's bill, any insurance plan that costs $8,000 for individuals or $21,000 for families would not be taxed; any value above that would be taxed at a rate of 40 percent. 
 As much as Americans hate the idea of taxes, there is a strong logic to this approach. It is designed to encourage employers and their workers to buy less-expensive plans -- and make a more rational calculation of what services they need versus what is ''free'' because it is covered -- and encourage employers to shift compensation more toward higher wages. 
 The report does acknowledge that likely shift, but then it blithely calculates the impact of the tax as if no shift occurred. 
 The report also claimed that new taxes on health insurers and drug and device manufacturers would drive up costs and then premiums. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the impact of those new taxes on the cost of premiums bought on the exchange would be about 1 percent. 
 And the report contends that the Finance Committee bill's sharp slowdown in Medicare payments to health care providers would cause those providers to charge more to privately insured patients, driving up premiums. That conclusion is disputed by many analysts, in part because many of the rate reductions are designed to prod providers to become more efficient and absorb the reductions without passing them on. 
 The report, notably if predictably, makes no mention of other valuable benefits from health care reform: the fact that all workers would benefit from greater security (knowing that they can buy insurance if they get laid off) and greater ability to change jobs without worrying about loss of coverage. 
 Finally, the report makes no mention of the legislation's efforts to find ways to rein in the relentless spiral of health care delivery costs -- the main culprit in today's spiraling premium costs. In the long run, those reforms should reduce the cost of insurance for everyone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (87%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); INSURANCE LAW (75%); APPROVALS (71%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



416 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety in Canada Over Near Parity With U.S. Dollar

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
For Canadians looking to escape winter's premature arrival in many parts of the country by visiting the United States, the equally unexpected movement of the Canadian dollar toward parity with its American counterpart is welcome news. For corporate Canada, however, the development is less inspiring.
 At Cascades, a producer of cardboard used to make boxes and tissue paper, every cent the Canadian dollar gains shaves 4 million Canadian dollars from its operating earnings. 
 With 40 percent of the Canadian economy dependent on trade, mostly with the United States, the prospect of the two currencies being at par for the second time since 2007 probably creates more anxiety than joy in Canada. And while currencies around the world have been rising against the United States dollar, many are laggards compared with Canada's. Since mid-March the Canadian dollar has risen 27 percent, closing on Wednesday at 97.30 cents, up from 76.53 cents.
 ''The Canadian dollar is a strong threat to the economy,'' said David Watt, a vice president and senior currency strategist at the Royal Bank of Canada. ''Once the Canadian dollar starts getting to levels like parity, the recovery scenario goes from assured to dicey.''
 Most economists and businesses had forecast that the Canadian dollar would appreciate this year and had set their budgets and, in the case of large corporations, their currency hedging strategies appropriately. But few if any of them anticipated that the rise would be as rapid and that the result would most likely be parity.
 Mr. Watt was among the surprised. He cites the usual reasons for the Canadian dollar's rise: increased prices for oil and other Canadian commodities as well as the worldwide disfavor that has fallen upon the United States dollar. But the speed and rate of the change, he said, came from unexpectedly high demand from China for Canadian commodities.
 Thomas J. Velk, an economics professor at McGill University in Montreal, said he believes that the Canadian currency's movement also reflects the perceptions by the currency markets of the economic prospects of the United States. 
 ''It's a very loud and clear statement about the failure of Obama's policies,'' he said. That dissatisfaction is causing some capital movement from the United States to Canada, in Professor Velk's analysis. And that trend, he added, is amplified by recent investments in Canadian mining and energy companies by their Chinese customers.
 In 2007, exports were strong when Canadian companies were confronted by a high dollar. That, however, is no longer the case partly because Canada's manufacturing sector is particularly dependent on the American automotive industry. 
 Since July 2008, Canadian exports have fallen 21.3 percent by volume, and export prices are down 16.3 percent, according to Statistics Canada, a government agency. 
 Economists looking for good news two years ago said that the strong dollar would make it easier for Canadian companies to increase their productivity, which lags behind that of the United States, by reducing the cost of new machinery and systems. About 80 percent of machinery and computer systems used in Canada are imported, Craig Alexander, an economist with the Toronto-Dominion Bank estimates, and most of that is priced in United States dollars regardless of its country of origin.
 That investment generally did not happen, however. Capital investment by Canadian companies rose 4.38 percent in 2007, compared with 10 percent the year earlier. The increase was just 0.5 percent last year as companies struggled with the recession, Mr. Alexander said.
 Not every company, however, avoided adjustments. Didier Filion, the director of investor relations for Cascades, which is based in Kingsey Falls, Quebec, said that the previous move of the dollar to parity prompted the company to permanently close underperforming mills and expand automation in those that remained. 
 Cascades also shifted production of some products it mainly sold in the United States to mills in that country. Still the United States accounts for about 45 percent of the sales of Cascades but only 33 percent of its production.
 ''The first time in 2007 was a practice round,'' Mr. Filion said. ''This time we're ready to face it.''
 In speeches over the last several months, Mark J. Carney, the governor of the Bank of Canada, has warned currency markets that he will take action if the Canadian dollar, as he put in it a recent interview with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation ''appears to move away from fundamentals.'' 
 If and when that time comes, Mr. Carney said he may resort to ''quantitative easing, the printing of money'' given that he has effectively exhausted interest rate cuts.
 Mr. Carney has avoided defining what exchange rate might prompt action. 
 But several business groups in Canada argue that the time has come.
 ''The recent movements up and down look more like a penny stock than a currency,'' said Avrim Lazar, the president and chief executive of the Forest Products Association of Canada. ''The time for talking the dollar down has passed. This is the sort of thing that will just suck the life out of the recovery.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); STATISTICS (71%); EXPORT PRICES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (91%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (91%); RY (SWX) (91%); RY (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%) QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



417 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

BYLINE: By MARTIN HUTCHINSON and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
A Dow Bubble?
 It Looks Like It
Investors have rejoined the 10,000 Maniacs. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed above the 10,000 level on Wednesday. Stocks first crossed the five-digit benchmark in the midst of the dot-com bubble. It held higher for five years during the housing bubble. Long-term measures suggest it's now in a new bubble. The Dow could move back and forth across 10,000 for years.
 The Dow broke through 4,000 on Feb. 22, 1995. That was the day Alan R. Greenspan, then chairman of the Federal Reserve, first hinted at a relaxation of monetary policy. At that time, the American economy was in its fourth year of expansion, and stock prices were 50 percent above their peak before the 1987 crash. Modest optimism prevailed. 
 So it's logical to peg 4,000 as an estimate for the Dow's reasonable level at the time. Inflate that by the increase in nominal gross domestic product in the intervening period, which should be related to company profits and valuations, and assume a 4 percent annual growth rate for nominal G.D.P. in the third quarter this year, and the equivalent reasonable valuation today would be just north of 7,800.
 Against that hypothetical level, the Dow appears to be in bubble mode. But then, the Fed has held interest rates around zero for a year, pumping money into the financial system. 
 Either rising inflation or excessive prices for commodities, particularly oil, will soon force the Fed to raise interest rates, most likely knocking back stocks. That's assuming investors don't pull back first on their own. With a mere 4.2 percent nominal growth rate in G.D.P. built into the calculation above, the Dow's hypothetically reasonable valuation passes 10,000 in 2015 -- about 16 years after first touching that figure.
 That would be the same length of time the benchmark took from first topping 1,000 in 1966 to leaving that level firmly behind in 1982. Today's low growth and interest rates and rising commodity prices seem like the 1970s. If so, that could be another hint that the Dow is again outrunning reality.
 Zeroing In on Lawyers
 Kenneth D. Lewis is taking the fall at Bank of America for the botched acquisition of Merrill Lynch, but what about the lawyers who advised him? The bank has agreed to release more documents on the controversial deal, including legal advice. And the bank says it followed its lawyers' counsel. Hindsight has endowed the legal eagles, as well as the bank's bosses, with tin ears at best. Things could get uncomfortable for the lawyers.
 Exhibit A is the decision by Jed Rakoff, a federal judge in New York, to reject the $33 million settlement Bank of America had reached with the Securities and Exchange Commission over disclosures, or lack thereof, surrounding the Merrill deal, including potential bonus payments to the firm's bankers. Simply put, he wanted names to be named. He also wanted to know more about the legal advice the bank had received.
 Exhibit B is Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general. His opportunistic strikes, including threats to charge bank bosses including Mr. Lewis, have helped persuade the bank to make an about-face. For months, the bank insisted it wouldn't release the legal advice it had relied on. This week, it decided it would.
 The bank's letter to Mr. Cuomo's office came from the outside lawyers, Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton. The bank's advice on the Merrill deal came mainly from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. The lawyers involved, particularly those from Wachtell, face an unusual degree of scrutiny.
 They could end up having to testify in Judge Rakoff's court, for Mr. Cuomo or in Congress, which is also interested. There is no suggestion at this point that Wachtell's advice departed from the norms of previous financial sector mergers, or that Bank of America's in-house team acted more aggressively than its counsel proposed. It would be a bombshell if either of those proved to be true. 
 Even so, the exposure won't be fun. The limited disclosure on the Merrill bonuses has become a touchstone for critics of bank practices and pay and Bank of America's initially uncooperative stance smacked of arrogance in the face of a taxpayer bailout. 
 All in all, it's unlikely the lawyers concerned will come out of this agreeing that there's no such thing as bad publicity.
 MARTIN HUTCHINSON and RICHARD BEALES 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader, Alan Valdes, in appropriate headgear Wednesday at the exchange.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); LAWYERS (84%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INFLATION (75%); METALS MARKETS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); TIN MARKETS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); JUDGES (60%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (57%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



418 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Dow, First Time in a Year, Breaks Through 10,000

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average, one of the most watched barometers of the financial world, closed above 10,000 points on Wednesday, a milestone of the stock market's recovery from the depths of the financial crisis.
 The rally carried over into Asian markets Thursday morning, with Japan's Nikkei index rising more than 2 percent after the opening before sliding back some. Other key markets in Asia also showed more modest gains.
 At the market close Wednesday in the United States, baseball caps declaring ''Dow 10,000 2.0'' circulated on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. CNBC scheduled a special report to commemorate a level that Wall Street had not reached for a year, after the Dow fell below five digits last October as Washington rushed to head off an all-out collapse of the financial system. 
 ''The last time we saw 10,000, we were going the wrong way,'' said Doreen Mogavero, president of the brokerage Mogavero, Lee & Company, who was on the trading floor Wednesday afternoon. ''This is a little bit nicer feeling.''
 The Dow has recovered about 3,450 points since bottoming out in early March. But it and other major stock indexes are still shadows of their former selves, and many investors are a long way from whole. The Dow is some 4,000 points off its record high, and broader measures of the market are down 30 percent from their peaks. And the companies that constitute the stock indexes are still grappling with shaky revenues, credit losses and huge uncertainties about the American economy's long-term growth.
 In Washington, the market move became political fodder. Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, played down the gains and said more Americans were concerned with jobs and ''putting food on the table,'' NBC reported.
 On Wednesday, shares pushed higher after JPMorgan Chase reported a $3.6 billion third-quarter profit, earnings rose at the chip maker Intel and retail sales held up better than expected.
 Investors went on a buying spree after the reports, lifting stock markets from London to New York to Mexico City. 
 The Dow gained 144.80 points or 1.5 percent, to end at 10,015.86, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 18.83 points, or 1.75 percent, to 1,092.02, and the Nasdaq composite climbed 32.34 points, or 1.5 percent, 2,172.23. 
 ''Each time it crosses one of these levels, more of the bears get flushed out,'' said Cleve Rueckert, research analyst at Birinyi Associates. ''They're more apt to change their tune. It makes it that much more clear that the market is pushing higher.''
 The Dow first closed above 10,000 in March 1999. It retreated in the years after the dot-com bubble deflated, then retook 10,000 in late 2003 and peaked above 14,000 in October 2007.
 Still, many investment specialists dismiss the significance of such big, round benchmark numbers, and say that no sophisticated investors or hedge funds make investment decisions based on whether a stock index's total value can be measured in four or five digits.
 ''It's psychological,'' said Tom Fitzpatrick, chief technical analyst at Citigroup Capital Markets.
 The major stock indexes have rebounded by 50 percent or more in a scorching rally that began in early March and galloped higher through the summer and early autumn, as the economy stabilized and once-bleeding companies began to report better profits and rising revenue.
 Investors rushed to take positions in companies and commodities that could benefit from a broad upturn in the global economy. Crude oil prices hit their highest levels since last October, topping $75 a barrel. Safety bets like the dollar and government bonds got clobbered.
 Financial stocks surged after JPMorgan Chase announced a third-quarter profit that outstripped expectations. JPMorgan was the first major financial company to announce earnings for last quarter, and the sight of rising revenue and stabilizing losses at one of the most powerful banks lifted expectations that the financial sector was again back on its feet, a year after its near-implosion.
 Shares of JPMorgan climbed 3.3 percent, and its rising tide lifted shares of other banks like Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and Citigroup, which are all scheduled to report their own quarterly results in the days ahead. 
 Investors swept up shares of computer companies, search engines and software makers after Intel reported profits that surpassed Wall Street's expectations. Shares of Intel, which issued its earnings report after markets closed on Tuesday, rose 1.7 percent.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 18/32, to 101 24/32. The yield rose to 3.41 percent, from 3.35 percent late Tuesday.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange cheered as the Dow extended its rally by more than 144 points Wednesday.
Since hitting a low in March, the Dow has gained about 3,450 points as the economy has begun to show signs of recovery.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INTEL CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



419 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Powered by Investment Banking Gains, JPMorgan Chase Posts $3.6 Billion Profit

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Jack Healy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A year after the financial system was brought to its knees, a resurgent JPMorgan Chase reported a second consecutive quarter of surprisingly strong profit on Wednesday, solidifying its position at the pinnacle of American banking. 
 JPMorgan's results -- $3.6 billion in profit for the third quarter -- fanned hopes on Wall Street that the nation's financial sector was entering a new period of prosperity, despite lingering troubles. The bank's robust showing, amid tentative signs that its consumer loan losses might soon peak, has set the pace for other big banks that will report results in coming days. 
 JPMorgan's profit was powered by its investment banking division, where earnings more than doubled from the period a year earlier because of trading in the fixed-income markets and a flurry of deals. The unit's results more than offset the bank's losses on credit card loans and home mortgages, which continued to rise as consumers struggled with a weak economy. 
 The earnings seemed to light a fire under Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 144.80 points, closing above 10,000 for the first time in a year.
 Although the recession weighed heavily on its businesses, JPMorgan appeared to be taking advantage of the financial crisis to leapfrog investment banking rivals in the rankings and expand its consumer lending franchise. Meanwhile, it added $2 billion to its consumer credit reserves for future losses, bringing the total amount it has set aside to $31.5 billion. 
 Net income rose to 82 cents a share, far surpassing analysts' estimates for the third quarter. The bank reported a profit of $527 million, or 9 cents a share, in the third quarter of 2008. 
 ''The revenue growth was very impressive,'' said Anthony Polini, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates. ''They're benefiting from a turn in the economy, and they're asserting their dominance.'' 
 The results also reflected the broader rebound in once-stymied financial markets, with companies again issuing stock, raising money from bond markets and signing merger deals. After being forced to take huge write-downs on the value of some its assets a year ago, JPMorgan said it booked about a $400 million gain on the sale of mortgage securities and buyout loans. 
 Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chairman and chief executive, said the earnings reflected growth across several business lines, but he gave only a cautious outlook. ''While we are seeing some initial signs of consumer credit stability, we are not yet certain that this trend will continue,'' he said in a statement. 
 Consumer loss rates remain high, but there were upbeat signs in the bank's numbers. Bank officials said they saw ''a little bit of stabilization'' in home values, especially for lower price properties and in states like California. And while delinquencies remain high, fewer borrowers were falling behind on mortgages. 
 Michael J. Cavanagh, the bank's chief financial officer, called that a ''hopeful sign'' but stopped short of declaring that heavy losses were over. ''We have to watch the economy and see where it heads,'' he said in a conference call with reporters.
 JPMorgan was the first of the nation's biggest banks to report third-quarter earnings. Bank of America, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs also release results this week. As one of the first major banks to warn of troubles with subprime mortgages, home equity loans and credit cards, JPMorgan is seen as a bellwether for the financial industry.
 Although the housing market and economy remain weak, analysts expect to see a slowdown in consumer loan losses at the biggest banks and for them to start setting aside less money in their reserves. Meanwhile, the troubles are quickly moving to commercial real estate loans, which will place a heavier burden on smaller lenders. 
 Mr. Dimon still must contend with several problems. His decision last month to replace the two co-heads of the investment banking division with a single leader, James E. Staley, raised concern within the ranks. JPMorgan's credit card division is unlikely to turn a profit until 2011, and, like most of the industry, its consumer franchise has seen a fall-off in new mortgage lending. 
 Mr. Dimon also faces obstacles in Washington. He must balance paying bonuses to JPMorgan investment bankers based on blow-out earnings with public furor over Wall Street pay. New regulations on credit cards threaten to lower the profitability of that business, and lenders face other legislative efforts to curb bank fees and derivatives trading. 
 Despite repaying its $25 billion taxpayer investment in June, JPMorgan is still waiting for the government to sell warrants it was given last year. Their value, now at nearly $2 billion, has risen almost $800 million since rivals like Goldman Sachs cut deals to buy them back this summer, according to Linus Wilson, a finance professor at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. That could be a windfall for taxpayers but would not affect the bank's capital.
 Even so, JPMorgan is emerging from the crisis with renewed confidence. Its investment bank, which posted a $1.9 billion profit, reported strong trading revenue, though short of the record levels earlier this year when the markets were in constant flux and prices skyrocketed. 
 The bank's consumer businesses are still bleeding from bad loans. Its mortgage and consumer banking operations posted a narrow $7 million profit, while its credit card division lost $700 million in the quarter. By next year, charge-offs could reach 11 percent of loan balances. 
 ''You are seeing the underlying earnings power is there, albeit challenged by the need in this quarter to add to reserves,'' Mr. Cavanagh said. ''Stabilization is just the first phase; we need losses to return to more normalized levels.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Nearing a Peak: Delinquency and default levels for consumer loans remain high, but there are early signs that fewer borrowers are falling behind.(Sources: Equifax
 Moody's Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MERGERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BONDS (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); HOME PRICES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



420 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: What $100 Million?

 BODY:
Bankers will surely say ''we told you so.'' Citigroup's sale of its profitable energy trading unit Phibro is exactly the kind of unintended consequence that the nation's financiers warned us would happen when the Obama administration set out to limit their pay. 
 We see it as a public policy success. Phibro is a high-risk, high-reward hedge fund. It has no place on the books of one of the nation's too-big-to-fail banks. If a policy to cap bankers' pay forces all banks to get rid of their hedge funds, it will be a winning policy. 
 Citigroup sold Phibro to Occidental Petroleum only to rid itself of Andrew Hall, its most successful trader -- or, more to the point, Mr. Hall's promised $100 million compensation package. 
 Kenneth Feinberg, who was hired by the White House to pass judgment on the compensation of top earners at the banks that benefited from public bailouts, probably could not have stopped Citigroup from paying the $100 million. That was determined by a contract signed before the bailout and not covered by the new rules. But the government does own 34 percent of the bank, and if Mr. Feinberg objected it would almost certainly have attracted unwanted attention from Congress. 
 Mr. Feinberg has more direct leverage over compensation deals negotiated after the bailout. He is threatening to slash executive pay at the American International Group if the company does not reduce the $198 million in bonuses granted to executives at the trading unit that brought the company to ruin. This month he is slated to issue recommendations on the top pay of all bailed-out institutions. 
 Meanwhile, he has done a good deed by getting Citigroup to sell Phibro. Compared with the havoc caused by investment banks like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley, hedge funds played a relatively minor role in this financial crisis. But they are in an explosive business that can cause enormous damage.
 Mr. Hall's unit generated about $200 million a year in earnings over the past decade. But it also posted a $100 million loss in a single day: Jan. 16, 1991, when the United States started bombing Iraq and oil prices wrong-footed Mr. Hall's bets. 
 These kinds of ups and downs are reasonable, perhaps, for a hedge fund playing with the money of sophisticated investors. One lesson from this crisis is that banks -- which play with depositors' money while covered by a big insurance policy financed by the taxpayer -- shouldn't be playing in any high-stakes investment games.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (69%); BOMBINGS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); OXY (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (56%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



421 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Cougars Aren't Mythical

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
OVER the transom the other day came an urgent ''Cougar Alert'': There is a new book out, and this one distinguishes the real cougar, a confident, strong, single woman over 40, from the comically desperate predator-seductress depicted in television shows like ''Cougar Town,'' one of the latest products of Hollywood's obsession with the older woman. 
 There is so much cougar hype that we now have a fake cougar and a real cougar. We also have our first Miss Cougar USA, a 42-year-old crowned in August by a room full of ''cubs,'' men in their 20s and 30s. Cougar cruises are setting sail, cosmetic surgeons are promising to cougarize their clients and online cougar communities are cropping up.
 Newsweek, taking stock of the explosion of on-screen romances between older women and younger men, declared 2009 ''the year of the cougar,'' but then concluded in the June article that ''by this time next year, the cougar will be extinct.'' 
 Maybe so -- if you're talking about television or the box office. But behind the unleashing of cougars in pop culture is what a growing number of sociologists say is a real demographic shift, driven by new choices that women over 40 are making as they redefine the concept of a suitable mate. 
 The loosening of relationship conventions, which is not limited to age but also includes race, religion and economic status, appears to be particularly evident among female baby boomers, sociologists say, who are faced with the tightest ''marriage squeeze'' -- the smallest pool of compatible men as conventionally defined, those two to three years older, of similar background and higher levels of education and income. The reason is that as women have delayed marriage, men still have a tendency to date and marry younger women. 
 In the last several years, as the loaded term cougar was popularized by the media's frenzied fascination with Demi Moore's marriage to Ashton Kutcher, 15 years her junior, and the dalliances and liaisons of other celebrities like Madonna and Katie Couric, researchers have begun to examine the older woman-younger man relationship. It is one that has long been taboo, heavily influenced by the Freudian notion that the older women are mother substitutes or ''robbing the cradle.''
 ''For a long time we've been fed this idea that women should look for a man to take care of her, a man that is more educated, has a better job and makes more money,'' said Sandra L. Caron, a professor of family relations and human sexuality at the University of Maine. ''That might be fine and dandy if you're in high school and have this fairy tale Prince Charming. But when you look at adult women, most are self-sufficient and they don't have to look for that.''
 Dr. Caron is an author of a 2006 study of couples in which the wife is at least 10 years older, which found surprisingly positive attitudes among the couples, although fear of stigma and insecurity about aging for the women, in particular, were common.
 The study, published in the Journal of Couple and Relationship Therapy, reported that the couples thought their age difference mattered more to the outside world than to them, and that the men were more strongly drawn to the relationships at the start because of physical attraction. 
 Consistent with most other research and what many relationship experts are saying about these connections, the authors found that women liked the vitality the younger man brought into their lives, and men liked the maturity and confidence in the women, although generational differences sometimes made both partners uncomfortable. Others have also cited infidelity as a stronger possibility in any relationship with a large age difference. 
 ''Initially I thought I would find more issues,'' said Nichole R. Proulx, the lead author of the study, who is a marriage and family therapist in Maine. ''But it's a relationship like any other, despite what society might say. I thought I'd find that he looks at her like his mother, more inequality, more power struggles.''
 That study involved only eight couples, and the samples have generally been small in other research into a subject that has not until recently received much scholarly attention.
 An analysis of census data on age difference in marriages showed that the number of marriages between women who are at least 5 or 10 years older than their spouses is still small, 5.4 percent and 1.3 percent, respectively. But both rates doubled between 1960 and 2007, according to Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College, who conducted the analysis. 
 At the same time, the data showed that the percentage of marriages of older men and younger women decreased steadily through 1980, and since then it has remained stable. 
 Sociologists say these figures reflect a solid change, if not a major shift in marriage patterns.
 But marriage tells only part of the story. Researchers and relationship experts say that a growing number of men and older women are dating, or at least contemplating it. The women tend to be highly educated and have been married before and are not necessarily seeking out marriage or even cohabitation. 
 Another study by Dr. Caron, in 2004, comparing the dating preferences of women 35 to 50 with those of women 20 to 25, found that the older women were much more open to younger men and to crossing lines like race, religion and socioeconomic status.
 Prior research, Dr. Caron said, had suggested that women of all ages were looking for the same things in a partner, research that lead to the famous Newsweek cover story in 1986 that declared a single woman over 40 had a better chance of being blown up by a terrorist than marrying. That conclusion ricocheted through the culture as a defining fate for women of that age, but 20 years later the magazine issued a retraction, in an article entitled ''Rethinking the Marriage Crunch.''
 A survey in 2003 by AARP of 2,094 older single women, 40 to 69, found that 20 percent were dating or had recently dated a man at least five years younger. 
 Christie Nightingale, founder of Premier Match, a matchmaking service that charges from $6,500 to $50,000 and has 10,000 members in its database, said she had seen a striking leap of interest among women from their early 40s to late 50s in dating men up to 15 years younger. Ms. Nightingale, 45, whose husband is five years her junior, estimated a 30 percent increase in such requests from women in the last year. She attributed it to pop culture's infatuation with May-December relationships as well as the underlying demographics. 
 ''It's become so mainstream and accepted that a lot of people are jumping on the bandwagon,'' she said.
 But, she added, it is not always easy to persuade the men to participate.
 ''I have to be conscious of how many cougars I'll actually work with,'' she said. ''If a woman is truly stunning, a really pretty woman who has a good attitude, who is hip and youthful, I can call some of these men on the fence and maybe get them to go with someone older. There are younger men who are sick and tired of women their age -- they want a woman who is more grounded and more mature. Age is just a number.''
 It's a number that still matters a lot, though, according to research that culls information from online dating services, where men overwhelmingly say they are seeking younger women.
 According to researchers at the University of Chicago and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, men ''consistently dislike older women,'' and show a preference for women five to nine years younger. Although the study, which has not been published, showed men prefer women their own age to those more than 10 years younger.
 The term cougar raises hackles among women who say the image of a wild animal, however sleek and beautiful, prowling for victims -- or an army of Mrs. Robinsons on the march for men young enough to be their sons -- is demeaning. Ms. Moore, who has been married to Mr. Kutcher for four years, has been described as a cougar, but so have sex-starved women slinking through bars for young men to satisfy nothing but physical needs.
 According to the Urban Dictionary, which lists many definitions of cougar too unsavory to print, the cougar woman is generally at least 35 -- and always on the hunt -- while many of the Hollywood and tabloid depictions put the women in their 40s, 50s and even 60s. Sociologists studying these relationships generally are looking at women of those ages involved with men 10 to 15 years younger. 
 The older woman, if she is what some relationship experts refer to as the ''Samantha prototype,'' a reference to the ''Sex and the City'' character who has a strong sexual appetite for younger men -- and anyone else for that matter -- may well be looking merely for a boy toy. There is plenty of research on the notion popularized by Alfred Kinsey that women reach their sexual peak much later than men do, so older women and younger men may be especially sexually compatible. 
 ''I think men are deeply attracted to a woman who knows what it's all about and is sexually free,'' said Pepper Schwartz, a sociologist at the University of Washington and a sex columnist and author. ''The idea of a woman who is sexually knowledgeable and passionate is very attractive to a lot of young men who are getting more hesitant interactions or conditional sexual access from younger women.''
 But economics is also a key factor. Both women and men, particularly as the wage gap has narrowed, are growing more comfortable with the possibility that she is the higher earner, sociologists say. And while she may not want to take a slacker under her wing, she is less likely to be focused on the status of her partner than women of previous generations. 
 The paradox, of course, is that the older-woman relationship makes perfect sense when it comes to life expectancy, with women outliving men by an average of five years. But with men's fertility far outlasting women's, biology makes the case for the older-man scenario, and recent research has even suggested that older men having children with younger women is a key to the survival of the human species. 
 Nonetheless, advice for women who want to pursue younger men abounds in an explosion of magazine articles and books dedicated to cougardom. 
 Linda Franklin, a former Wall Street executive who is the author of a new book, ''Don't Ever Call Me Ma'am! The Real Cougar Woman Handbook'' (Advantage Media Group), said she had decided to take what she thought was an insulting term and use it to empower women.
 ''What you see on TV in no way bears any reality to women in real life,'' Ms. Franklin said. ''These women take very good care of themselves, they are financially independent, and they are making different choices. That certainly does not make them desperate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTS: TV AS LIFE: Courteney Cox and Nick Zano in the ABC show ''Cougar Town.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD CARTWRIGHT/ABC) (pg.E1)
REAL LIFE: Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore, above, and Mariah Carey, 40, and Nick Cannon, 29. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON MERRITT/GETTY IMAGES
ANDREW H. WALKER/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.E6) CHARTS: OLDER WIVES: LESS OF A RARITY: Since the 1960s, it has become more common for wives to be significantly older than their husbands. (Sources: Queens College Department of Sociology
 U.S. Census Bureau) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILD CATS (90%); WOMEN (90%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); MARRIAGE (86%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MEN (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (54%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: MADONNA (76%); KATIE COURIC (57%); MARIAH CAREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



422 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: For Porsche's First Sedan, A Focus on Its Origins

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
HOW interested are consumers these days in buying gold-plated shares of A.I.G. stock dusted with caviar? Diamond-encrusted yachts once owned by a Ponzi schemer? Scrabble sets with platinum boards?
 Not very, it is safe to say. So how keen will they be to buy a sports car that begins at $89,800 and can cost up to $132,600? The answer will begin to be determined on Thursday as Porsche Cars North America, a division of the German automaker Porsche, formally introduces the 2010 Panamera, the brand's first sedan.
 A four-door Porsche? Really? A sports car with room for four? Really? A luxury car with a name that sounds like a mash-up of Pan American, Panera and ''Panamania,'' a song once sung by Dorothy Lamour? Really? 
 Porsche Cars North America and its agency, Cramer-Krasselt in Chicago, acknowledge the daunting challenges they confront. To be sure, the recession has decimated demand for cars, particularly higher-price models, and shoppers are loath to spend for anything other than groceries and gasoline.
 Oh, yes, and conspicuous consumption has become as popular as Bernard Madoff in Palm Beach.
 ''Is Panamera coming into the market a little early?'' David Pryor, vice president for marketing at Porsche Cars North America in Atlanta, asked. ''Maybe,'' he added, but ''you have to have a little optimism,'' because ''we may have seen the end of the worst of it.''
 Porsche sales in the United States have risen for the last two months in a row, compared with the same months of 2008, Mr. Pryor noted, ''and September was up over August.''
 Also, Porsche was one of only six companies to sell more vehicles in the American market last month than in September 2008. (For the first nine months of 2009, however, Porsche sales fell 32 percent from the same period the year before.)
 ''This isn't the greatest time to sell anything at this price point,'' said Marshall Ross, chief creative officer at Cramer-Krasselt, who described himself as ''a sports car fan forever.''
 So the campaign to introduce the Panamera is ''not about showing off status or showing a beautiful car,'' Mr. Ross said. Rather, it is about celebrating that Porsche owners are ''in love with driving'' by asserting that as different as it is, the Panamera fits into the Porsche family alongside models like the 911, the 917 driven by Steve McQueen in the movie ''Le Mans'' and even the early 356 Gmund coupe.
 To underline that point, those cars, and almost 50 more, appear with the Panamera in television commercials and print advertisements, on two Web sites (panamera.com and porscheusa.com/family) and even in a 30-minute program on the IFC cable channel. The show, part of a sponsorship agreement between IFC and Porsche Cars North America, includes interviews with ''Porschephiles,'' to use a term favored by Mr. Ross, like Jerry Seinfeld. 
 Porsche Cars North America is spending an estimated $15 million to $20 million on the campaign, which Cramer-Krasselt has been working on since landing the company's creative and media account in September 2007.
 In fact, ''coming up with strategic concepts for the launch was part of the agency review'' in which Cramer-Krasselt was selected, Mr. Pryor recalled.
 The theme of the campaign, ''Four, uncompromised,'' speaks to the idea that ''whenever we come out with a new model not in our traditional area,'' he said, like the Cayenne sport utility vehicle, ''you have to do a certain amount of convincing people that it's a Porsche.''
 So the ads declare that ''Panamera is simply the newest branch on the family tree,'' Mr. Pryor said, and seek to reassure Porsche owners of the new model's lineage as well as appeal to ''a group out there that drives sports sedans like BMW or Mercedes and never considered Porsche before.'' 
 In a 60-second TV commercial, an announcer declares: ''Over 60 years ago, Dr. Ferry Porsche couldn't find the car of his dreams. So he built one. A full-blooded, unapologetically pure sports car. Since then, every Porsche has fulfilled a dream of one kind or another. Introducing the Panamera, the first true sports car for four. And another bold line on the family tree.''
 At that point, the camera pulls back to show an aerial shot of the 50-odd Porsches, old and new, arranged to form the branches and trunk of a tree. The words ''Four, uncompromised'' appear onscreen.
 The making of the commercial is part of the program on IFC, called ''Welcome to the Family,'' which is to have its debut at 10 p.m. (Eastern time) on Thursday. The channel is calling the show a documentary rather than a program-length commercial.
 ''This is subject matter deserving of a documentary look,'' said Evan Shapiro, president for the IFC and Sundance channels at Rainbow Media Holdings, part of Cablevision Systems, because ''there is a passion for Porsche not present with other brands, other car brands.''
 ''Being a car guy myself, looking at those cars onscreen, it's almost like Porsche porn,'' he added. Vignettes promoting the program will run on both IFC and Sundance, and the program is likely to be repeated on IFC next month.
 For those wondering about the derivation of the name Panamera, Mr. Pryor said it came from La Carrera Panamericana, ''a famous road race back in the '50s.'' The event, also called the Mexican Road Race, was revived in a different form in 1988; the 2009 edition is scheduled for Oct. 23 to 29.
 The Panamera campaign is among several major efforts getting under way for the 2010 model year; others include Hyundai, Ford, Lexus and Toyota. And brands like Cadillac, Chrysler, Dodge and Volkswagen are reviewing their creative accounts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Porsche lover, Jerry Seinfeld, second from left, appears in ''Welcome to the Family,'' which will have its debut on Thursday on IFC and highlight the brand's first sedan, the Panamera.
 The campaign says the ''Panamera is simply the newest branch on the family tree.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORTS CARS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%); PORSCHE CARS NORTH AMERICA INC (57%); PANERA BREAD CO (56%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (56%)

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%); PANASONIC (NSE) (70%); PNRA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (56%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%); JERRY SEINFELD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



423 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Managing Your Career As a Business

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN

 BODY:
EMPLOYMENT experts have some advice for the many Americans either looking for work or fearing they soon will be: Consider yourself an entrepreneur -- of your own working life.
 The term entrepreneur is usually applied to people seeking to start their own small businesses. But those in the recruitment and employment industry say the uncertainty in the current economy means that workers need to think of their careers as their own small businesses. 
 ''The lesson of today is that you're working for yourself,'' said Janice Bryant Howroyd, the founder and chief executive of Act 1 Personnel Services, a staffing and employment company. ''Most people say they're giving their lives to the company, but it's more of a cooperative process. Companies have tasks to perform and you must put in your best effort and identify yourself with that job,'' she said. 
 Employment experts say they see a complex picture of changing job patterns as employers respond to hard times, global competition and fresh opportunities. So as companies and organizations are forced to be more innovative, they say, so must employees. 
 Jim Jonassen, head of Jim Jonassen & Associates Venture Search, noted the explosion of online employment sites and social media that have transformed the marketplace in recent years. ''You used to be scared your boss would see your resume on Monster.com,'' he said. ''But today your boss's resume is on LinkedIn along with your own.'' 
 Ms. Howroyd is an entrepreneur in the traditional sense. She said she left Tarboro, N.C., in 1976 to work for a brother-in-law's talent agency in Los Angeles and two years later started her own small employment firm. At the beginning, she said, she played off the fact that ''I was a minority-owned business in two ways, as an African-American and a woman.'' 
 Through the years, Act 1 has grown past its original role as an employment agency. One division, Agile 1, for instance, supplies and, in some cases, employs people for other businesses. One of its clients is MetLife, the giant insurance company. Jeffrey Hebert, strategic sourcing consultant at MetLife, explained: ''An operation may need a new person but not have the budget to hire this year. So we get somebody from an agency like Act 1, which handles that individual's payroll and benefits.'' 
 While flexibility helps businesses, it means that workers are not insulated from hard times and insecurity. 
 Mr. Jonassen, who has founded half a dozen software and personnel companies over two decades, said he and his latest firm suffered a dry period starting in the fall of 2008 when the high-technology start-ups that he recruits for stopped hiring and began laying off people. ''The venture capital outfits that backed them had ordered these entrepreneurs to stop following their visionary plans and cut back to where they could make a small profit, by doing research for others in digital technology and other routine work,'' Mr. Jonassen said.
 But, he said, ''In July of this year, demand picked up for computer and mobile phone applications, and these entrepreneurs found they had cut too much.'' Now, he said, they are scrambling to hire skilled people, and his recruiting business is thriving.
 Joy Chen followed her own entrepreneurial career path. Ms. Chen, with a master's degree in business administration from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, had been a deputy mayor of Los Angeles and then went to work for Heidrick & Struggles, the management search firm. She left to start her own recruiting firm, Chen Partners in 2007, just as the economy started to slow. Business was initially scarce, she said. ''Many employers were even then hunkering down.'' 
 Then this year, Ms. Chen said, things changed. ''Many companies noticed that after all the layoffs and uncertainty, skilled people were available at lower salary demands than in former years. And now business is very active.'' The lesson of the economy's ups and downs, she said, is that workers cannot let hard times or lower pay discourage them. ''It's a change in the market, not a depreciation of who you are as a person.'' 
 Ms. Howroyd, whose Act 1 Group has grown in recent years as businesses have experimented with assembling staffs from a mix of full- and part-time employees, said she had noticed the same increase in demand. ''We are growing this year,'' Ms. Howroyd said, because ''employers now recognize that they must decide how best to manage staffing, whether with independent contractors, temporary or full-time employees.''
 Ms. Howroyd said temporary work used to be seen as a dead end but that that was not necessarily true anymore. ''In the recent market, we see companies taking people on temporarily or as contract workers who could become full time when conditions improve,'' she said. ''It's more flexible today and that's smart, rather than hiring people on and then letting them go.''
 Caris Diagnostics of Phoenix, which is also a client of Act 1, is a molecular testing company that employs cell biologists and skilled lab technicians. It does not routinely hire short-term help but occasionally needs to fulfill a special project, said Wendy Brown, the company's human resources manager. ''So we contract for as many as 40 scientists for limited periods.''
 Scientists working as contract labor, part time, as needed -- the old model of permanent positions and fixed employment has changed profoundly.
 And workplaces will continue to do so, Mr. Jonassen predicted, because ''recessions like this spawn entrepreneurs.'' In the downturn of aerospace-defense industries in the early '90s, he recalled, ''many people had to rethink careers and become entrepreneurs.'' Today, because companies can be formed cheaply thanks to cloud computing and mobile communications, he said, ''I think we'll see a new surge of entrepreneurs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janice Bryant Howroyd of Act 1 Personnel Services says employees should identify themselves with the job, not the company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (85%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (79%); HUMAN RESOURCES (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STARTUPS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (65%)

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (90%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



424 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: In Moscow, Clinton Urges Russia to Open Its Political System

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: KAZAN, Russia 

 BODY:
On a day that took her from an elite Moscow university to this bustling city in Russia's Muslim hinterland, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton paid tribute on Wednesday to religious tolerance, while also challenging Russia's leaders to open their political system and allow more dissent.
 In a speech to nearly 1,000 students at Moscow State University, Mrs. Clinton spoke far more forcefully about human rights and the rule of law than she did on a trip to China earlier this year. Russia, she said, could best fulfill its potential by protecting basic freedoms. 
 ''That's why attacks on journalists and human rights activists are such a great concern, because it is a threat to progress,'' she said. ''The more open Russia will become, the more Russia will contribute.''
 As if to illustrate that point, Mrs. Clinton then traveled from Moscow to Kazan, the 1,000-year-old capital of Tatarstan, a Russian republic where Muslims, Orthodox Christians and Roman Catholics live together peacefully, with none of the violent separatism that afflicts places like Chechnya.
 Mrs. Clinton was met by Tatarstan's longtime president, Mintimer S. Shaimiev, who showed her around a mosque and an Orthodox cathedral, both of which are within the walls of Kazan's version of the Kremlin. Mr. Shaimiev is no democrat, but he played up his ecumenical credentials.
 ''This is a multiethnic place,'' he told her as she gazed at a shimmering chandelier in the mosque. ''There are plenty of mixed marriages.''
 Mrs. Clinton praised Mr. Shaimiev for being ''someone who is well known for fostering religious tolerance.''
 The three-hour side trip to Tatarstan captured the ambitions and limitations of Mrs. Clinton's approach to being secretary of state, nine months into her tenure. It was driven, her aides say, by her desire to get out of capital cities, to places where she could mingle with people.
 But the stop in Kazan had a rushed feel to it, and Mrs. Clinton has little time these days for even brief forays. Minutes after her plane took off from Kazan, she holed up in her cabin to take part, by secure telephone link, in the White House's latest meeting on Afghanistan.
 Mrs. Clinton has managed to keep encounters with students on her schedule. Her talk in Moscow drew noisy applause, and she was asked questions about issues like the American role in the global economic crisis and the dispute between the United States and Russia over Georgia.
 Asked to name the book that had made the biggest impact on her, she singled out ''The Brothers Karamazov.'' The parable of the Grand Inquisitor in Dostoyevsky's novel, she said, speaks to the dangers of certitude. 
 ''For a lot of reasons, that was an important part of my thinking,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''One of the greatest threats we face is from people who believe they are absolutely, certainly right about everything.''
 From there, it was a short rhetorical leap for Mrs. Clinton to encourage Russia to open its political system.
 She even struck an implicit blow for diversity when she cut the ribbon on a statue of the poet Walt Whitman at the university. Local gay activists protested because one of the Russian officials on hand to honor Whitman, a gay icon, was Moscow's mayor, Yuri M. Luzhkov, who has made hostile statements about homosexuals and banned gay pride parades in the city.
 For her part, Mrs. Clinton noted that in his writing Whitman celebrated the similarities between Russians and Americans.
 Yet Mrs. Clinton's emphasis was on the new rather than the old. She told the students that they symbolized a new Russia, one that produced innovators like Sergey Brin, who was born in Moscow and helped to start the Internet search giant Google. And she praised President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia for charting a vision of the country's future based on technological innovation rather than mineral wealth.
 Mrs. Clinton's visit underscores the Obama administration's growing attachment to Mr. Medvedev, Vladimir V. Putin's handpicked choice to succeed him as president. Last month, the White House made much of Mr. Medvedev's support for its tough stance toward Iran.
 After Mrs. Clinton's meeting on Tuesday with the foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in which he ruled out threatening Iran with sanctions, she went to see Mr. Medvedev at his dacha outside Moscow. American officials said that Mr. Medvedev was unstinting in his support for the administration.
 But on a visit to Beijing on Wednesday, Mr. Putin told reporters that he believed that it was too early to consider tough sanctions against Iran, suggesting that threats would poison negotiations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke at Moscow State University on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKHAIL METZEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); WRITERS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



425 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: To Beat the Taliban, Fight From Afar

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. PAPE. 
Robert A. Pape, a professor of political science at the University of Chicago, is the author of ''Dying to Win: The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism.''

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
 AS President Obama and his national security team confer this week to consider strategies for Afghanistan, one point seems clear: our current military forces cannot win the war. Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the top American commander there, has asked for 40,000 or more additional United States troops, which many are calling an ambitious new course. In truth, it is not new and it is not bold enough. 
 America will best serve its interests in Afghanistan and the region by shifting to a new strategy of off-shore balancing, which relies on air and naval power from a distance, while also working with local security forces on the ground. The reason for this becomes clear when one examines the rise of terrorist attacks in Afghanistan in recent years. 
 General McChrystal's own report explains that American and NATO military forces themselves are a major cause of the deteriorating situation, for two reasons. First, Western forces have become increasingly viewed as foreign occupiers; as the report puts it, ''over-reliance on firepower and force protection have severely damaged the International Security Assistance Force's legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan people.'' 
 Second, the central government led by America's chosen leader, Hamid Karzai, is thoroughly corrupt and viewed as illegitimate: ''Local Afghan communities are unable to hold local officials accountable through either direct elections or judicial processes, especially when those individuals are protected by senior government officials.'' 
 Unfortunately, these political facts dovetail strongly with developments on the battlefield in the last few years. In 2001, the United States toppled the Taliban and kicked Al Qaeda out of Afghanistan with just a few thousand of its own troops, primarily through the combination of American air power and local ground forces from the Northern Alliance. Then, for the next several years, the United States and NATO modestly increased their footprint to about 20,000 troops, mainly limiting the mission to guarding Kabul, the capital. Up until 2004, there was little terrorism in Afghanistan and little sense that things were deteriorating. 
 Then, in 2005, the United States and NATO began to systematically extend their military presence across Afghanistan. The goals were to defeat the tiny insurgency that did exist at the time, eradicate poppy crops and encourage local support for the central government. Western forces were deployed in all major regions, including the Pashtun areas in the south and east, and today have ballooned to more than 100,000 troops. 
 As Western occupation grew, the use of the two most worrisome forms of terrorism in Afghanistan -- suicide attacks and homemade bombs -- escalated in parallel. There were no recorded suicide attacks in Afghanistan before 2001. According to data I have collected, in the immediate aftermath of America's conquest, the nation experienced only a small number: none in 2002, two in 2003, five in 2004 and nine in 2005. 
 But in 2006, suicide attacks began to increase by an order of magnitude -- with 97 in 2006, 142 in 2007, 148 in 2008 and more than 60 in the first half of 2009. Moreover, the overwhelming percentage of the suicide attacks (80 percent) has been against United States and allied troops or their bases rather than Afghan civilians, and nearly all (95 percent) carried out by Afghans.
 The pattern for other terrorist attacks is almost the same. The most deadly involve roadside bombs that detonate on contact or are set off by remote control. Although these weapons were a relatively minor nuisance in the early years of the occupation, with 782 attacks in 2005, their use has shot up since -- to 1,739 in 2006, nearly 2,000 in 2007 and more than 3,200 last year. Again, these attacks have for the most part been carried out against Western combat forces, not Afghan targets. 
 The picture is clear: the more Western troops we have sent to Afghanistan, the more the local residents have viewed themselves as under foreign occupation, leading to a rise in suicide bombings and other terrorist attacks. (We see this pattern pretty much any time an ''outside'' armed force has tried to pacify a region, from the West Bank to Kashmir to Sri Lanka.)
 So as General McChrystal looks to change course in Afghanistan, the priority should be not to send more soldiers but to end the sense of the United States and its allies as foreign occupiers. Our purpose in Afghanistan is to prevent future attacks like 9/11, which requires stopping the rise of a new generation of anti-American terrorists, particularly suicide terrorists, who are super-predators able to kill large numbers of innocent people. 
 What motivates suicide attackers, however, is not the existence of a terrorist sanctuary, but the presence of foreign forces on territory they prize. So it's little surprise that Western forces in Afghanistan have provided a key rallying point for the insurgency, playing a central role in the Taliban's recruitment campaign and propaganda, which threaten not only our troops there but also our homeland. 
 The presence of our troops also works against the stability of the central government, as it can rely on Western protection rather than work harder for popular support. 
 Fortunately, the United States does not need to station large ground forces in Afghanistan to keep it from being a significant safe haven for Al Qaeda or any other anti-American terrorists. This can be achieved by a strategy that relies on over-the-horizon air, naval and rapidly deployable ground forces, combined with training and equipping local groups to oppose the Taliban. No matter what happens in Afghanistan, the United States is going to maintain a strong air and naval presence in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean for many years, and these forces are well suited to attacking terrorist leaders and camps in conjunction with local militias -- just as they did against the Taliban and Al Qaeda in 2001. 
 The United States has a strong history of working with local groups, particularly the Tajiks and Uzbeks of the old Northern Alliance, who would ensure that the Taliban does not recapture Kabul and the northern and western regions of Afghanistan. And should more substantial threats arise, our offshore forces and allies would buy time and protect space for Western ground forces to return. 
 Further, the United States and its allies have made some efforts to lead Pashtun tribal militias in the southern and eastern areas to abandon their support for the Taliban and, if not switch to America's side, to at least stay neutral. For instance, the largest British gains in the southwest came from winning the support of Mullah Salam, a former Taliban commander who is the district governor of Musa Qala.
 Early this year the United States started what it calls the Afghanistan Social Outreach Program, offering monthly stipends to tribal and local leaders in exchange for their cooperation against the Taliban insurgency. The program is financed at too low a level -- approximately $20 million a year -- to compete with alternatives that the Taliban can offer like protection for poppy cultivation that is worth some $3 billion a year. 
 One reason we can expect a strategy of local empowerment to work is that this is precisely how the Taliban is gaining support. As General McChrystal's report explains, there is little ideological loyalty between the local Pashtuns and the Taliban, so the terrorists gain local support by capitalizing on ''vast unemployment by empowering the young and disenfranchised through cash payments, weapons, and prestige.'' We'll have to be more creative and rely on larger economic and political carrots to win over the hearts and minds of the Pashtuns.
 Changing strategy does not mean that the United States can withdraw all its military power from Afghanistan immediately. As we are now seeing in Iraq, changing to an approach that relies less on ground power and more on working with local actors takes time. But it is the best strategy for Afghanistan. Otherwise we will continue to be seen and mistrusted as an occupying power, and the war will be lost. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%); SUICIDE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (88%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



426 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Math Scores Falling Short Of Goals Set by Law

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
The latest results on the most important nationwide math test show that student achievement grew faster during the years before the Bush-era No Child Left Behind law, when states were dominant in education policy, than over the years since, when the federal law has become a powerful force in classrooms.
 Scores increased only marginally for eighth graders and not at all for fourth graders, continuing a sluggish six-year trend of slowing achievement growth since passage of the law, which requires schools to bring 100 percent of students to reading and math proficiency by 2014. 
 On the most recent test, 39 percent of fourth graders and 34 percent of eighth graders scored at or above the proficient level.
 ''The trend is flat; it's a plateau. Scores are not going anywhere, at least nowhere important,'' said Chester E. Finn Jr., president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a research organization in Washington. ''That means that eight years after enactment of No Child Left Behind, the problems it set out to solve are not being solved, and now we're five years from the deadline and we're still far, far from the goal.''
 The test, known as the National Assessment of Educational Progress, was given to 329,000 fourth- and eighth-grade students. Results in reading are to be released next year, officials said. 
 ''This is the first time in 19 years that fourth-grade math scores are flat,'' said Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. ''We've got to get better faster.''
 The latest scores were especially disappointing because score gaps between white and minority students did not diminish at all since the last time the math test was administered, in 2007. On average, the nation's fourth graders scored 240 on a 500-point scale, just as they did in 2007. White fourth graders, on average, scored 248, Hispanics scored 227 and blacks scored 222.
 Eighth graders, on average, scored 283 on the same scale, up from 281 in 2007. White eighth graders, on average, scored 293, while Hispanics scored 266 and black eighth graders scored 261.
 The gap of 32 points separating average black and white eighth graders represents about three years' worth of math learning.
 Enactment of the No Child Left Behind law in 2001 followed a decade dominated by a standards and accountability movement that brought deep changes to public schools. Educators and policy makers, in nearly every state, laid out standards as to what students were expected to know in each grade and subject, and required schools to use those standards to guide instruction. They also established standardized testing regimes intended to measure whether students were meeting the standards and to hold schools accountable for student achievement.
 The federal law, proposed by President George W. Bush and passed by bipartisan majorities in Congress in his first year in office, sought to build on the standards movement with many new federal rules, including a requirement that states administer reading and math tests every year to students in grades three through eight and once in high school.
 It required schools to publish their scores on state tests not just as averages, but broken down by students' race, sex and other groups, a rule that most educators agree has focused attention on narrowing achievement gaps.
 And it raised the importance of the National Assessment, requiring the Department of Education to increase the frequency of its administration in math and reading to once every two years, to help Americans monitor progress toward the goals of universal proficiency and the elimination of the achievement gap.
 The latest results on the National Assessment show that in the six years since the law took effect, fourth-grade scores have risen by five points, to 240 from 235. That is slower growth than during the seven years preceding the federal law, when average fourth-grade math scores grew by 11 points, to 235 in 2003 from 224 in 1996. 
 ''Either the standards movement has played out, or the No Child law failed to build on its momentum,'' said Mark Schneider, who from 2005 to 2008 was commissioner of the arm of the Department of Education that oversees the National Assessment. ''Whatever momentum we had, however, is gone.''
 No one can say for certain why achievement progress has slowed since the federal law took effect, and Mr. Schneider and other experts warned that economic, demographic and social factors other than the law itself may be to blame. 
 But an unintended consequence of the law has been that many states have lowered the rigor of their standards and the difficulty of their tests to avoid sanctions the law imposes on failing schools, a process Secretary Duncan has called a ''race to the bottom.''
 David P. Driscoll, chairman of National Assessment Governing Board, said at a news conference in Washington announcing the scores: ''Mathematics achievement is not close to where it should be.''
 ''A major reason,'' he said, ''continues to be the lack of content knowledge and mathematics preparation of our teachers.''
 William Schmidt, an education professor at Michigan State University, also called the results disappointing.
 ''We're just inching upwards, and we've only got about a third of our students proficient,'' Professor Schmidt said. 
 The large variation in average scores by state, he said, should be a focus of national analysis. In Massachusetts, for instance, where educators have sharply raised math scores in recent years by carefully reworking standards and instruction, 57 percent of fourth graders scored at or above proficient on the latest test. That compares with Mississippi, where only 16 percent of students scored at proficient.
 ''How can we as a nation allow such disparity?'' Professor Schmidt asked.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Slower Gains After No Child Left Behind: Students made more rapid gains on math test scores in the seven years from 1996 to 2003 than in the six years from 2003 to 2009, after the No Child Left Behind law was put into effect. One of the law's primary goals was to close the gap between white students and black and Hispanic students.(Source: National Center for Education Statistics)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (91%); EDUCATION LAW (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ARNE DUNCAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



427 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Numbers on the Bloomberg Record

 BODY:
Two hundred and fifty thousand jobs. Ninety-four thousand apartments.
 These numbers, which could describe an entire thriving city by themselves, are central to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's case that he deserves a third term. By helping create jobs and housing, he says, he has made the city more livable for its millions of poor and working-class residents. 
 Numbers do not always speak for themselves, however, and in New York they are colored by large shifts in the job and housing market, some beyond the mayor's control. 
 A broader look at the statistics shows there are indeed more jobs than when he took office, but the new jobs do not, on average, pay as much as jobs that have gone away. Those who managed to keep their jobs, however, tended to earn more than before, even when wages are adjusted for inflation.
 And while the mayor during his tenure has added thousands of city-financed housing units that are affordable to low- and moderate-income residents, the city as a whole lost more of such affordable units.
 For photographs of New Yorkers weathering housing and employment challenges, audio clips of a painter whose work volume has survived the recession, and reader discussion on the issues raised in these articles: nytimes.com/nyregion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



428 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: British Plan Would Deploy Bigger Afghanistan Force

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and PETER BAKER; John F. Burns reported from London, and Peter Baker from Washington. Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced a cautious and heavily conditioned plan on Wednesday to send 500 more British troops to Afghanistan, which would raise Britain's contingent -- the second largest in the 41-nation coalition fighting the eight-year war -- to 9,500.
 Mr. Brown hinted strongly that discussions with President Obama and other American leaders had persuaded him that their current review of Afghanistan strategy would result in a similar approval for at least a modest increase in American troops -- perhaps linked, like Britain's, to strict conditions on President Hamid Karzai's government in Afghanistan. 
 ''I believe the decision we are announcing is consistent with what the Americans will decide,'' he said.
 In Washington, the White House expressed appreciation for the British decision but denied that Mr. Obama had made his decision. The president met for three hours with his national security team to discuss Afghanistan and Pakistan, his fifth such meeting in recent weeks as he reviews strategy and his commander's request for more troops.
 Mr. Obama and his advisers focused much of their discussion on Wednesday on concerns with the Afghan government, the need to accelerate training of Afghan security forces and the challenges in deploying more civilian assistance, White House officials said. Mr. Obama plans another such meeting next week and does not appear close to a decision, prompting renewed criticism from Republicans that he is dithering at a critical moment.
 On a related front, American officials moved to reassure Pakistan that a new aid package did not impinge on its sovereignty. That program, giving $7.5 billion over five years, requires assurances of civilian control of Pakistan's security forces, but House and Senate leaders released a joint statement clarifying its intent. Pakistan's visiting foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, expressed satisfaction, and Mr. Obama plans to sign the legislation by Friday.
 The British troop announcement renewed attention on the contribution of NATO allies, which have long resisted American pressure to do more in Afghanistan. American officials said that if Mr. Obama approved more forces, they expected NATO to increase its participation as well, if not in combat troops then in training, equipment or economic assistance. 
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates will meet with fellow NATO ministers in Bratislava, Slovakia, next week, although without a final decision from Mr. Obama it will be harder to lobby then for more resources, officials said. Any appeals are likely to face resistance. The Dutch have said that they are pulling out of Afghanistan in 2010, and the Canadians plan to leave in 2011.
 Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the American and allied commander in Afghanistan, has submitted a request for 40,000 more troops on top of the 68,000 Americans already authorized to be there. About 35,000 troops from other NATO countries are also in Afghanistan.
 Mr. Brown's announcement comes at a time of rising opposition in Britain to the war, which appeared to be one reason the proposed increase was for only some of the 1,500 to 2,000 troops that British commanders had recommended. In outlining the strategy in a tense, 70-minute exchange in the House of Commons, Mr. Brown said his plans were intended to mesh with American war policy. 
 Mr. Brown spoke with Mr. Obama over a video link last week and met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at his official country residence, Chequers, on Monday. Last month, Mr. Brown met separately in London with General McChrystal and Gen. David H. Petraeus, the overall American commander for Iraq and Afghanistan operations.
 But the keynote to Mr. Brown's war plan was an insistent caution. He said he approved the new deployment on condition that enough equipment, including helicopters, be available to support British troops. Another requirement, he said, would be that other allies stepped up.
 ''Everyone must accept that they're part of a coalition, and they've got to show it,'' Mr. Brown said.
 The exchanges in the House of Commons reflected unease about the war in Britain. Eighty-four British soldiers have died in Afghanistan this year, more than a third of all of Britain's losses since 2001 and more than all military deaths suffered in 2009 by other European nations in Afghanistan. 
 Before announcing the troop increase, Mr. Brown read the names of 37 British soldiers killed during the Commons' 12-week summer recess. More than a dozen lawmakers then stood to denounce the war, or to mock the idea that combat responsibilities would eventually be handed over to the Afghan forces. 
 Sir Peter Tapsell, a member of the Conservative opposition, said, ''Anybody who believes that an Afghan army composed of different ethnic groups is going to defeat the Taliban is living in a political cloud-cuckoo-land.'' 
 But Mr. Brown said that three-quarters of all terrorist plots uncovered in Britain in recent years had links to Islamic extremists in Pakistan and Afghanistan. By persisting with the war effort, he said, ''We are protecting the streets of Britain.''
 Beyond demanding greater allied involvement, Mr. Brown said, the overall war strategy will involve a new ''contract'' with Mr. Karzai, an idea he said had developed ''after the fullest possible consultation'' with American leaders and the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
 Mr. Brown said the pact would require an equitable solution to the disputed August presidential election, including the possibility of a runoff between Mr. Karzai and his main opponent, Abdullah Abdullah. The Afghan government would also have to take action to curb corruption while increasing its security forces and deploying them in contested areas.
 Part of any new strategy may involve distinguishing among Taliban factions. Mrs. Clinton alluded to that in an interview with ABC News while traveling in Moscow on Wednesday. ''Our goal is to disrupt, dismantle, defeat Al Qaeda and its extremist allies,'' she said. ''But not every Taliban is an extremist ally.''
 That thesis generated criticism in Washington. ''I'm worried that we're going to see 'new' analysis that justifies a more limited war strategy on the basis that we can now tolerate'' the Taliban, Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee, said at a hearing. 
 He criticized ''the continued drift'' by the White House, saying, ''It is unfair to our forces in theater to fight a war while the strategy remains in limbo.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal at a memorial service on Wednesday for Afghan security officers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LOBBYING (75%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%); ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



429 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Former Czech Leader Assails Moral Compromises

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
It was supposed to be an interview about the revolutions that overturned communism 20 years ago in Europe. But first, Vaclav Havel had a question.
 Was it true that President Obama had refused to meet the Dalai Lama in Washington?
 Mr. Havel is a fan of the Dalai Lama, who was among the first visitors to Prague's storied castle after Mr. Havel moved in there as president, the final act in the swift, smooth revolution of 1989. A picture of the Dalai Lama is displayed prominently in Mr. Havel's current office in central Prague. 
 Told that Mr. Obama had made clear he would receive the Dalai Lama after his first presidential visit to China in November, Mr. Havel reached out to touch a magnificent glass dish, inscribed with the preamble to the United States Constitution -- a gift from Mr. Obama, who visited in April.
 ''It is only a minor compromise,'' Mr. Havel said of the nonreception of the Tibetan leader. ''But exactly with these minor compromises start the big and dangerous ones, the real problems.
 ''This is actually the first time I really do mind something Obama did,'' Mr. Havel said. He minded it ''much more'' than Mr. Obama's recent decision not to station elements of a missile-defense system in the Czech Republic, a move that several Central European politicians criticized but that Mr. Havel noted was ultimately ''an internal American decision.''
 One day after his 73rd birthday, with a half-drunk glass of Champagne at his side in midafternoon, the man who steered the Czechs and Slovaks out of communism showed that his morals, and his sense of mischief, were intact.
 His country has been in the news -- in Europe, at least -- these days because Mr. Havel's successor as president, his fierce rival Vaclav Klaus, has puzzled and irritated European leaders by raising last-minute objections to a treaty designed to consolidate the power of the European Union and give it more heft on the world stage.
 Mr. Havel said he had not criticized his successor on the advice of Madeleine K. Albright, the former secretary of state whose Central European roots have made her something of a mentor for several regional politicians.
 But Mr. Havel's reticence did not prevent him, during a 45-minute interview, from aiming squarely at what he called the current ''era of disgust'' in Czech politics.
 ''If you look at the C.V.'s of current Czech politicians, you see that most of them are in their 50s,'' he said. This means they matured in what he called ''early normalization,'' roughly from 1969 to the mid-1970s, when the Soviet-led invasion that crushed the brief Prague Spring reforms of 1968 gave way to a dull and autocratic regime dependent on Moscow. ''One of the darkest periods'' of national history, Mr. Havel said.
 In his view, those years have marked many current politicians, leaving them prone to conspiratorial thinking and acts of petty deceit. Compounding that, he said, is ''some kind of existential crisis'' caused by a global pursuit of materialism and by the specific Czech legacy of 40 years of Communist government.
 Indeed, the contrast between the atmosphere in Prague today and during the magical autumn of 1989 and the Velvet Revolution could scarcely be greater. Today, the city is a freer, far wealthier place than 20 years ago, with private property restored and millions of tourists proving an economic if not aesthetic boon to one of Europe's most beautiful capitals.
 But as an exhibit at the Old Town Hall reveals, the spirit of 1989 was humane in a way rarely felt since. In grainy black-and-white photographs, the show traces the arc between the first demonstrations against Communism here in 1988, through the mass exodus of East Germans via the West German Embassy in Prague in August 1989, to the fall of the Berlin Wall and then the Velvet Revolution itself.
 As Vaclav Maly, then a dissident with Mr. Havel and now auxiliary bishop of Prague, notes in the introduction to the show, ''It is good to realize that once there were times when we were not afraid to show feelings, and did not take considerateness and kindness to be a sign of weakness.''
 Asked for his favorite memory of the Velvet Revolution, Mr. Havel said it was the mass gathering on Letna Plain above Prague in late November 1989, when 750,000 people gathered in freezing temperatures. ''It was so cold, there were too many speakers, but I looked out and felt that something was definitely changing, that it was a turning point,'' he said.
 The discussion turned to present-day challenges, including the intentions of Russia. Mr. Havel recently joined other Central and East European leaders and intellectuals in appealing to the Obama administration not to abandon the region and to be wary of resurgent Russian imperialism.
 ''I truly believe that we should not treat Russia as a handicapped person,'' he said in response to the suggestion that Russia cannot be expected to reach democracy swiftly after decades of Communism. 
 ''It's a partner country like any other, and the broader human principles or standards apply to Russia, as they apply to Burma, Brazil, the Czech Republic or any other country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Vaclav Havel, shown with the Dalai Lama last month, criticized President Obama's decision not to meet with the Dalai Lama recently.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL KRUMPHANZL/CZECH NEWS AGENCY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DALAI LAMA (90%); VACLAV KLAUS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%) XIZANG, CHINA (56%) CZECH REPUBLIC (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); TIBET (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



430 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE ROAD TO COPENHAGEN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Obstacle to Global Climate Deal May Be How to Pay for It

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
As world leaders struggle to hash out a new global climate deal by December, they face a hurdle perhaps more formidable than getting big polluters like the United States and China to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: how to pay for the new accord. 
 The price tag for a new climate agreement will be a staggering $100 billion a year by 2020, many economists estimate; some put the cost at closer to $1 trillion. That money is needed to help fast-developing countries like India and Brazil convert to costly but cleaner technologies as they industrialize, as well as to assist the poorest countries in coping with the consequences of climate change, like droughts and rising seas. 
This financing is an essential part of any international climate agreement, negotiators and scientists say, because developing nations must curb the growth of their emissions if the world is to limit rising temperatures. Based on calculations by the International Energy Agency for 2005 to 2030, 75 percent of the growth in energy demand will come from the developing world. 
 Many developing countries have made it clear that they will not sign a treaty unless they get money to help them adapt to a warmer planet. Acknowledging that a new treaty needs unanimity for success, industrialized nations like the United States and those in Europe have agreed in principle to make such payments; they have already been written into the agreed-upon structure of the treaty, to be signed in Copenhagen in December.
 But to date there is no concrete strategy to raise such huge sums. There is not even agreement about which nations should pay or in what proportion. 
 ''The level of ambition in funding is not matching up to the sense of urgency everyone now has,'' said Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado, the lead climate negotiator for Brazil, which hopes to get financing to preserve its rain forest. 
 He added, ''Financing and an inadequate level of financing are a deal breaker for us.''
 At a United Nations summit meeting in New York on climate change and at the Group of 20 meetings in Pittsburgh last month, national leaders, including President Obama and President Hu Jintao of China, stressed the urgency of combating climate change. But they offered no new proposals for financing and put no new cash on the table.
 Perhaps even more troublesome, the United Nations Adaptation Fund, which officially began operating in 2008 to help poor countries finance projects to blunt the effects of global warming, remains an empty shell, largely because rich nations have failed to come through with the donations they promised. The fund now holds about $18 million, a tiny fraction of what it was supposed to have, according to fund officials. 
 United Nations officials regard the failure to come up with financing as a blind spot that jeopardizes a new global treaty.
 ''How important is this? It is critical,'' said Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which oversees the treaty negotiations. 
 The United States and other industrialized nations will certainly have to contribute heavily to any financing program. But the global recession has tightened purse strings, and nations are having trouble backing their good intentions and previous pledges with cash. 
 The money woes of the United Nations fund, set up as an exemplar of international cooperation in addressing climate change, are symptomatic. The fund was supposed to benefit from two income streams: the first is a 2 percent tax on carbon credits sold in the United Nations carbon trading system, in which rich nations invest in green projects in the developing world to offset emissions at home; the second is voluntary donations by richer countries.
 The 2 percent tax is expected to generate at least $1.6 billion by 2012. But the donations have not materialized, Mr. de Boer said. 
 A number of proposals are on the table to generate money to help developing countries rein in future emissions as well as to adapt to the effects of climate change. But most remain far from producing money.
 In September, the European Union offered a plan in which ''industrialized nations and economically more advanced developing countries'' would provide $33 billion to $74 billion a year to help poor countries adapt, with the European Union's share placed at $3 billion to $22 billion. The climate bill passed by the House in the United States in June would auction emissions permits, and donate a portion of revenues to help poor countries. The climate legislation is now before the Senate. 
 Connie Hedegaard, the Danish minister of climate and energy, who will be chairwoman of the Copenhagen meeting, recently suggested imposing a new tax on shipping fuel or on airline flights -- which both cause substantial emissions -- to finance adaptation in poor countries. 
 ''We need more innovative financing,'' Ms. Hedegaard said in an interview. ''The G-20 should come up with fast-track financing that would send a very strong signal that developed countries are serious about this.''
 Many poor countries say they are increasingly skeptical, having witnessed the way past promises evaporated when the economy soured. They are likewise nervous about market-based solutions, like using a portion of revenues from carbon credits. 
 ''Developing countries are not convinced that the market will find them the $100 billion they need,'' said Mr. Figueiredo Machado, Brazil's climate negotiator. ''They want guarantees.'' 
 When Germany and France suggested at a recent Group of 20 meeting in London that they would contribute to the fund by reducing other types of aid, India rebelled. Financing to help poor countries adapt to climate change or to reduce emissions ''should not be at the cost of other monetary support,'' said Pranab Mukherjee, India's finance minister.
 Equally contentious is the issue of which countries should give, and which should receive. Should the contributors be only industrialized nations, or should they include rapidly developing -- and increasingly wealthy -- polluters like China? 
 Xie Zhenhua, the lead Chinese climate negotiator, speaking at a news conference in New York last month, said the United Nations should not expect China to pay.
 ''Global warming is a result of CO2 from developed countries during their industrialization,'' Mr. Xie said. ''China is one of the countries that has borne the brunt of that.'' 
 THE ROAD TO COPENHAGEN: This is the first article in a series about issues that will face world leaders when they meet in Copenhagen in December to forge a new global accord on climate change. Other articles will look at developing countries already affected by climate change, the potential costs of an international agreement, the history of global climate accords and other topics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China's president, Hu Jintao, seated at center, at a United Nations climate debate last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); DROUGHT (74%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); RAIN FORESTS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



431 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW '30 ROCK'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Still Biting The Hand That Feeds

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The parent company is in ruthless cost-cutting mode on ''30 Rock'' this season, thanks to what the Republican-supporting, Wall Street-loving boss, Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin), smoothly refers to as ''Comrade Obama's recession.''
 NBC pages no longer receive overtime, and pink slips rain down in almost every department. Jack's huge salary and bonus, however, are exempt. ''My talents are more valuable than yours, so I am paid accordingly, and therefore I am entitled to my bonus,'' Jack says to the hayseed page, Kenneth (Jack McBrayer). 
 The fourth season of ''30 Rock'' begins Thursday night on NBC with comical reminders that corporate greed isn't a joke and that the economic meltdown hasn't blown over, even if populist rage has been repurposed against health care reform and tax increases. 
 Tweaking the network that carries it is one of the many pleasures of ''30 Rock,'' and right now pointed jabs at corporate blunders and executive misdoings are all the more apt and amusing. 
 But the other striking thing about the new season, especially when seen in the same Thursday night lineup as ''Parks and Recreation,'' is the acting limitations of its star and creator, Tina Fey. Ms. Fey is one of the funniest comedy writers on television and a gifted mimic (Sarah Palin), and she is at her worst playing a comic version of herself. 
 When they star in their own semiautobiographical television shows, the best comedians play an exaggerated caricature of themselves, notably Larry David on ''Curb Your Enthusiasm,'' but also Ray Romano on ''Everybody Loves Raymond'' and Bill Cosby on ''The Cosby Show.'' 
 Ms. Fey isn't as convincing, or as funny, playing Liz Lemon, perhaps because the hapless single head writer of a late-night sketch comedy show doesn't track as a comic distortion of Ms. Fey. She has surrounded Liz with a menagerie of wonderfully silly and original characters and is reluctant to play their straight man. Liz's foibles -- she dresses badly, is a junk-food glutton, can't get a date -- are the kind of flaws that thin, beautiful actresses affect because they think it makes them more approachable. None of those traits seem natural to Ms. Fey or plausible for Liz. 
 In the season's first episode Liz sings from memory an ad jingle for a brand of hot dogs named Cheesy Blasters. In the second she asks Jack, headed for Washington, to find the retainer she lost there on a junior high school trip. Those jokes are supposed to establish Liz's geek cred, but they mostly serve as speed bumps in the show's otherwise fast and clever banter. 
 That disconnect is all the more obvious this season because Amy Poehler, Ms. Fey's former co-star on ''Saturday Night Live,'' is so deliciously believable as a rural version of Liz: Leslie Knope, the irrepressible do-gooder and feminist civil servant in the Parks and Recreation Department of Pawnee, Ind. 
 Ms. Poehler is not as distinguished a writer as Ms. Fey, but she is a more supple comedian, and she is thoroughly at ease in the role of an adorably deluded and ridiculous single woman who performs penguin marriage ceremonies at the zoo and keeps a framed picture of Madeleine Albright by her desk. Ms. Fey plays a satirical version of herself and seems miscast in the part. 
 Sometimes a seemingly truer version sneaks into view. One of Liz's funnier moments was an episode last season in which she attended a high school reunion and discovered that she was unpopular not because she was a nerd but because she was a mean girl who tortured her classmates with a withering wit and cool disdain. 
 Ms. Fey's klutz jokes sometimes interrupt the comic flow, but they don't really detract from the show's overall humor. Mr. Baldwin is as funny as ever as the corporate shark, who this season has to contend with Congressional committees and a page strike instigated by Kenneth. Jack impatiently informs Liz that because he took a bonus, ''whatever religious undergarment Kenneth wears is in a twist.'' 
 Mr. Baldwin has some of the better lines, but he is often funniest when delivering a smoky word of dismissal or even a wordless shrug.
 Jack instructs Liz to find new talent for their show that could appeal to ordinary Americans. ''We'll trick those race-car-
 loving wide loads into watching your lefty, homoerotic propaganda hour yet,'' he explains. And the eternally ambitious and insecure Jenna (Jane Krakowski) volunteers to start singing country. 
 Jack is so pleased he decides to use Jenna to help NBC promote its last remaining sport: off-season tennis. Her sexy country-western promos -- in high-heeled cowboy boots, white miniskirt and tennis visor -- are a hilarious spoof of network overreach.
 Ms. Fey, who is fearless about mocking politics, the entertainment business and NBC (the first episode even includes a sly poke at Jay Leno), gamely tries to include herself in the joke. But she is better when she sticks to being television's funniest mean girl.
 30 Rock NBC, Thursday nights at 9:30, Eastern and Pacific times; 8:30, Central time. Created by Tina Fey; Lorne Michaels, Ms. Fey, Marci Klein, David Miner and Robert Carlock, executive producers. Produced by Broadway Video and Little Stranger Inc. in association with Universal Media Studios. WITH: Tina Fey (Liz Lemon), Alec Bladwin (Jack Donaghy), Tracy Morgan (Tracy Jordan), Jane Krakowski (Jenna Maroney), Jack McBrayer (Kenneth Parcell), Scott Adsit (Pete Hornberger), Judah Friedlander (Frank Rossitano), Katrina Bowden (Cerie) and Keith Powell (Toofer). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (pg.C1)
 Kenneth (Jack McBrayer, far right) turns labor organizer in the season premiere of ''30 Rock,'' Thursday on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI GOLDSTEIN/NBC) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BONUS PAY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (53%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (79%); LARRY DAVID (76%); ALEC BALDWIN (73%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: 30 Rock (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



432 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Redstone to Sell $1 Billion in CBS and Viacom Shares

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
This year, Sumner M. Redstone was adamant that he did not plan to sell any more shares in Viacom and CBS to pay off nearly $1.5 billion in debt. 
 But on Wednesday morning, National Amusements, the Redstone family movie theater company that also serves as a vehicle to control Viacom and CBS, said it would sell nearly $1 billion worth of shares in the two media companies to pay down its large debt load, $500 million of which is due at the end of October.
 Still, National Amusements said in a statement that it would retain control of CBS and Viacom by maintaining about 75 percent of the voting stock in each company. National Amusements, which is owned by Mr. Redstone and his daughter, Shari E. Redstone, said it would sell $600 million worth of Viacom shares and $345 million worth of CBS shares.
 Mr. Redstone's, and National Amusement's, debt problems came to light last fall. The company was forced to sell more than $200 million worth of stock after it breached the terms of loans that were tied to the value of CBS and Viacom shares, both of which fell sharply amid the general decline in the market.
 The new stock sale means that National Amusements will not sell many of its movie theaters, which the company had said it would do to raise money to pay down debt. The company said in a statement that it planned to ''retain full ownership of all of its theater assets in the U.K. and Brazil and its core theater assets in the United States.''
 The debt troubles also entailed continuing discord between Mr. Redstone and his daughter, who had clashed over the debt negotiations. Last December, Ms. Redstone was the only National Amusements board member to vote against a plan to sell a big portion of the movie theaters.
 Last fall, when Mr. Redstone surprised the market with his stock sales, shares in Viacom and CBS fell close to 20 percent. On Wednesday, both shares rose slightly. Viacom closed up 21 cents at $28.91, while CBS gained 37 cents to close at $12.52.
 ''The stocks haven't reacted too negatively, because it removes an overhang that started with the shock to the market last fall,'' said David C. Joyce, an analyst at Miller Tabak. ''He was reticent to sell these shares, these babies of his, because he was trying to salvage his empire.''
 Mr. Redstone clearly preferred to sell movie theaters, rather than Viacom and CBS stock, to pay down debt, but ''he evidently had no bidders,'' Mr. Joyce said.
 With the sales and the apparent resolution of the debt crisis, Mr. Redstone appears to have erased questions of whether he could lose his grip on his media empire. Still, his ownership of the two companies has been minimized. He has agreed to sell roughly 40 million common shares of Viacom and CBS -- the entire amount owned by National Amusements. 
 In addition, his voting control of the two companies will slip to about 74 percent from about 81 percent. His overall economic ownership of the companies will fall to 7 percent for Viacom and 6 percent for CBS, from about 10.5 percent for each.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FILM GENRES (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); THEATER (57%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (90%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



433 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: As the City Gains Low-Income Housing, the Market Takes It Away

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Joel Stonington contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is closing in on a milestone: building or preserving 165,000 city-financed apartments and houses for low-, moderate- and middle-income families, the goal of a $7.5 billion housing plan he announced in 2002 and expanded in 2005. 
 It has already financed the creation or preservation of 94,000 units, including 72,000 for low-income households, city officials say.
 But those efforts have been overwhelmed by a far larger number -- the 200,000 apartments affordable to low-income renters that New York City has lost over all, because of market forces, during the mayor's tenure. 
 The shrinking supply of these apartments, highlighted by researchers at New York University, illustrates not only the increasing strain that housing costs have had on this city of renters, but also the limits of the mayor's success in providing the city's poor with reasonable places to live. While the mayor's plan has put thousands of low-income families in new or rehabilitated buildings and helped stabilize neighborhoods, it has been nearly drowned out by the twin waves of gentrification and rent deregulation. 
 ''We're losing units even with additions to the stock under the mayor's housing plan,'' said Victor Bach, a senior housing policy analyst for the Community Service Society, a nonprofit antipoverty group, and a member of a panel that advised the Bloomberg administration on housing in 2002. ''I'm not knocking the plan. I'm just saying it hasn't done much to stop the hemorrhaging of lower-rent units across the city.''
 Including public housing, the number of apartments considered affordable to low-income households -- those earning less than 80 percent of the city's median income, or less than $37,000 -- decreased to 991,592 from 1,189,962, a drop of nearly 17 percent, from 2002 to 2008. About 42 percent of the city's households fit in that income category in 2008. 
 The data were supplied by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University, which analyzed the city's Housing and Vacancy Survey from 2002, 2005 and 2008. The center and other housing experts consider an apartment affordable if it costs no more than 30 percent of a family's income, or about $925 a month for a family earning $37,000.
 Although the numbers present a gloomy picture, they did contain a glimmer of hope. The worst years were between 2002 and 2005, when the city lost affordable apartments at the highest rate of the mayor's tenure. In the next three years, as the mayor's plan took hold, the city actually gained about 8,000.
 ''We're very proud of what we've accomplished, but we're also not satisfied or done,'' said Rafael Cestero, the city's housing commissioner. ''We can't undo what happened between 2002 and 2005, but what happened during those years is exactly why we created the largest municipal housing plan in the nation's history. What the data suggests is that the response is working.'' 
 A majority of the 200,000 units in the Furman Center data -- 137,000 apartments -- had been part of the rent regulation system but were deregulated. In most cases, they became market-rate once their rent topped $2,000 and they became vacant, as allowed by the rent regulation system. Thousands of others had been in the state Mitchell-Lama or federal Section 8 programs, but were taken out of those subsidy programs by their owners and converted to market-rate apartments.
 The affordability of all of the city's 2.1 million rental apartments is of course beyond the control of Mr. Bloomberg and the city's housing agency, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. 
 But housing experts and tenant advocates say that the mayor has been far from powerless, and that his housing policy has suffered from a kind of tunnel vision, by focusing energy and resources on his 165,000-unit target rather than the larger pool of existing housing.
 Tenant advocates have been pushing state legislators to make it harder to remove apartments from rent regulation, a move strongly opposed by landlords and the real estate industry. The mayor has been virtually silent on the issue, though he appoints the members of the Rent Guidelines Board, which decides the annual rent increases for rent-stabilized apartments. He proposed state legislation in 2003 that would prevent the loss of Mitchell-Lama units, but the measure failed and has become a low priority for the mayor, tenant advocates say. 
 ''There needs to be a focus on preservation at the same level of intensity that there is for new development,'' said Michelle de la Uz, executive director of the Fifth Avenue Committee, a nonprofit Brooklyn-based affordable housing and community development group. ''It's not as though things aren't moving in the right direction. It's that advocates have a different sense of urgency.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's campaign said that the mayor intends to expand the housing plan by investing an additional $965 million, which will help preserve 10,000 more units of Mitchell-Lama housing than originally planned and stabilize apartment buildings that are overleveraged, meaning their debt is unsupportable by the income generated by rents, a widespread problem that has led to the physical and financial deterioration of many buildings.
 The Housing and Vacancy Survey showed that in 2008, 29.4 percent of all renter households in the city paid more than 50 percent of their income toward rent, an increase from 25.5 percent in 2002. Experts call those families ''severely rent burdened.'' (The city's median income in the Furman survey differed slightly from that in other recent surveys.)
 The financial squeeze has a spillover effect. It leads to overcrowded conditions and illegally partitioned rooms. It contributes to the record number of homeless families in city shelters. It fills the halls of the city's housing courts and fuels residential evictions, which have risen slightly to 25,027 in 2008, from 23,669 in 2006. And it causes many people to move out of the city. 
 A study prepared for the Bloomberg administration by the polling firm Harris Interactive found that 64 percent who moved out of the city cited housing costs as a major reason. The 2006 study was obtained by the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit research group. 
 Before the recession, James Hadden was earning up to $1,000 a week cutting hair at a Harlem salon, but more recently he has taken home $400 to $700. So he has fallen behind on the $1,300-a-month rent on his one-bedroom apartment, a fourth-floor walk-up on Lenox Avenue. His landlord began asking him to pay weekly. ''I'm going to go pay this man's rent so he'll stop calling me,'' Mr. Hadden, 42, said Tuesday.
 He said he was happy to be only 16 blocks from work; closer to the salon, on Fifth Avenue at 116th Street, rents are even more expensive. But he said he sometimes heard gunfire outside his building on Saturdays. ''My family comes to visit me and I'm embarrassed to show them where I live,'' he said. 
 Despite the net losses of affordable apartments, experts in the field are quick to praise Mr. Bloomberg on much of his housing record. The mayor's plan has suffered only one major setback since it was unveiled in December 2002: Mr. Bloomberg's goal of creating or preserving 165,000 units by 2013 was pushed back one year in late 2008 because of the recession. 
 Mr. Cestero, the housing commissioner, said the plan was on schedule and no further delays were expected. He said the preservation of existing affordable housing was the agency's ''No. 1 priority,'' and he said the agency would ''engage in the discussion'' about rent regulation at the right time. 
 The plan relies on the rezoning of underused manufacturing areas, including the Greenpoint and Williamsburg neighborhoods in Brooklyn, that allowed developers to build larger buildings if they set aside some apartments as low-cost units. New units have also been created through the city's Housing Development Corporation, which issues bonds and uses its corporate reserves to finance low-cost mortgages to affordable housing developers. 
 ''I think the city has done an extraordinary job, more than any other place in America,'' said Jerilyn Perine, executive director of the nonprofit Citizens Housing and Planning Council and the former city housing commissioner who helped create the mayor's original plan in 2002. ''You have to go to Europe to find another city that has this kind of robust, sustained housing policy and housing investment.''
 Of the 94,000 units the administration counts as gains, fewer than half, about 35,000, are new. The rest are apartments that City Hall says it has preserved as affordable, by providing low-interest loans to rehabilitate them or keep them from leaving rent-subsidy programs..
 Some housing experts say the loss of affordable units is evidence of the city's economic vitality and a natural consequence of demand for affordable housing exceeding supply. As Ms. Perine wrote in the housing plan, there has never been a time in the city's history when all of its population's housing needs have been met with safe and affordable housing. 
 ''I don't think there's a serious crisis in this area,'' said Magda L. Cruz, a lawyer and an owner representative on the Rent Guidelines Board. ''I do believe a big problem is employment, and salaries just not being high enough to sustain cost-of-living increases. That's something the mayor plays a part in, but it doesn't have to do with building new housing.''
 Affordable housing is in such demand that most new apartments are awarded by lottery. Alan Ceballos, 30, said he was grateful to have won his two-bedroom apartment, costing $839 a month, in a new building on University Avenue in the Bronx.
 Mr. Ceballos, who earns about $33,000 a year as a sales associate at a car rental agency, won the spot three years ago, allowing him to move out of a one-bedroom that cost $794. He and his wife had two children then, and now have three.
 He said that traffic often speeds down the street and that people who hang out in a park by the building sometimes smash car windows; his own windshield has been broken. But he is happy with the building itself: its cleanliness, security, price and size.
 ''Before, it being a one-bedroom, it did not have enough closet space,'' said Mr. Ceballos. Besides the extra room he now has, ''the kitchen is bigger, the living room is bigger, so it's adequate space now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Hadden, a barber, is struggling to pay the $1,300 rent on his Harlem apartment.(pg. A27)
Alan Ceballos's family lives in an $839-a-month Bronx apartment, awarded via a city-run lottery.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A29) CHARTS: Housing Squeeze: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been successful in adding tens of thousands of housing units for low- to middle-income residents. But other forces, like gentrification and rent deregulation, have cut an even greater number of such units from the city's inventory.
 Housing stretch: As affordability declined, the number of people showing signs of strain both renters and owners increased.(Source: Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, New York University)(pg. A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); FAMILY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); CITIES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); DEREGULATION (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



434 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyists Mass to Try to Shape Financial Reform

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Kicking off the latest chapter of this year's Full Employment Act for K Street Lobbyists, representatives from a surfeit of industries descended on an influential Congressional committee on Wednesday as it began writing a law overhauling the nation's regulatory system.
 In a lobbying season already booming with business from battles over health care, firms are also closely monitoring the debate over Washington's response to the market crisis. The financial services industry has poured more than $220 million into lobbying in 2009, much of it in anticipation of this Congressional effort now beginning. As usual for major financial services legislation, lawmakers have heard an earful from small community banks and large Wall Street banks, as well as from insurance companies, credit card companies, credit unions, mutual funds and hedge funds. 
 But since virtually every imaginable company could be touched by the comprehensive legislation proposed by the Obama administration, the surprisingly broad array of lobbyists trooping to Capitol Hill also includes advocates for airlines, pawnbrokers, real estate developers, farmers, car dealers, manufacturers, retailers and energy and telephone companies. They want to make sure any new oversight of the financial system does not lead to tighter regulations of their businesses or make it more expensive for them to finance their operations or hedge their risks. 
 Other groups are lobbying over whether the rules should be changed to make it easier to sue corporations and their advisers and whether restrictions should be eased to enable shareholders to have a greater say in the election of directors and the pay of senior executives.
 ''The legislation proposes to regulate significant aspects of the economy, and any time you have that kind of legislation, it is bound to draw to Congress the interests of many -- lawyers, labor unions, consumer groups and many companies,'' said Steven A. Elmendorf, a former senior aide to the House Democratic leadership who represents several major financial institutions and groups. 
 Mr. Elmendorf suggested that the legislation could keep the lobbyists busy for many weeks since it is the subject of deliberations by at least four committees in the House and Senate, along with floor action in both chambers and then more meetings to reconcile competing bills. 
 ''There will be a lot of opportunities and ways the bill can change,'' he said. ''This will be a long process.'' 
 Gazing across a hearing room jammed Wednesday morning with lobbyists and lawyers, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made an observation about a proposed amendment that some lobbyists interpreted as a comment about the keen interest of their clients.
 ''Watching sausage being made and watching legislation being made isn't always attractive,'' Mr. Frank said.
 Even though President Obama vowed to change the culture of corporate influence on Washington, the administration has contributed, albeit inadvertently, to making this a banner year for lobbyists. As the White House has awakened the alphabet soup of federal agencies from their deregulatory slumber of the previous eight years, lobbying shops have emerged to fight for their clients' newfound interests.
 In the case of financial overhaul legislation, the corporate interests have particular sway with moderate and conservative Democrats, whose votes are essential for the legislation to progress through Congress. So far the lobbyists have been moderately successful in influencing the contours of the legislation, judging by the ever-growing list of exemptions from tougher oversight of derivatives and from supervision by the proposed consumer financial protection agency. 
 The House Financial Services Committee, for instance, approved a provision on Wednesday that Mr. Frank said would exempt ''the great majority'' of businesses that use derivative instruments to hedge their business risks from trading such instruments through exchanges or clearinghouses. Senior officials at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission have been critical of the exemptions, saying they would create too large a loophole for financial instruments that were unregulated and played a central role in the economic crisis.
 On Wednesday, the administration announced its support for the exemptions. Michael S. Barr, an assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions, said in a telephone briefing with reporters that, while the administration did not propose the exemptions, they were ''reasonable ones'' that would still permit aggressive oversight because the legislation would impose supervision on the dealers of derivatives instruments.
 The new consumer protection agency has become a particular magnet for lobbying efforts. Bankers have waged a multimillion-dollar campaign to kill the agency or at least to substantially weaken the powers the administration would like it to have. The United States Chamber of Commerce, which claims a membership of more than three million businesses, is conducting a $2 million advertising campaign against the agency. The campaign has gained enough political traction to prompt President Obama to publicly chastise it as misleading.
 The chamber joined 17 other trade associations, including the Financial Services Roundtable and the Business Roundtable, in a letter sent this week to House members opposing the agency.
 The administration has proposed that the new agency protect consumers from abusive or deceptive credit cards, mortgages and other loans. But responding to the concerns that the agency could try to exert its jurisdiction over an array of other industries that lend money, like retailers and car dealers, Mr. Frank has made clear his intention to exempt many other businesses from oversight as part of his effort to steer the measure through Congress.
 The political obstacles to the creation of a consumer protection agency are formidable. In the last decade, banking and other interests that now oppose the agency's creation contributed more than $77 million to the members of the House Financial Services Committee, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research organization that studies the influence of money on policy. 
 Two of the largest recipients of money from the financial sector over the period have been Mr. Frank, whose campaigns have received more than $3 million, and Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the senior Republican on the committee and a leading critic of the administration's plan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank's House Financial Services Committee began writing a regulatory overhaul bill on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); COMMUNITY BANKS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); CREDIT UNIONS (69%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (54%); MUTUAL FUNDS (54%); NEW CAR DEALERS (52%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



435 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Albany Must Act to Lower Deficit, Comptroller Warns

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Deteriorating economic factors have propelled New York State's projected budget deficit to $4.1 billion, according to the state's comptroller, who warned on Wednesday that state leaders needed to do more to address an increasingly dire situation.
 ''Most New Yorkers understand they cannot spend more than they make,'' the comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, told reporters. ''The state needs to adopt that same kind of common sense. If we stay on the current path, New York will run out of cash.'' 
 Mr. DiNapoli's bleak assessment came a day before Gov. David A. Paterson, after months of delay, planned to release proposals for budget cuts to close the deficit for the current fiscal year, which ends in March.
 The governor will propose cuts in education, health care and other programs to close a deficit that his budget division projects to be around $3 billion, officials said. Asked to describe the plan at an appearance on Wednesday, the governor responded with one word: ''pain.''
 But it is far from certain that the Legislature will approve the plan or that it would be sufficient to bridge the widening deficit. 
 Mr. Paterson has been reluctant to propose specific cuts, saying he feared a repeat of the criticism he faced last year from special interest groups. Whatever the details of his plan, it will inevitably lead to protracted haggling with lawmakers. But Mr. DiNapoli said state leaders needed to act with a sense of urgency. 
 ''I said back in April that this was a buy-time budget, and now time is up,'' the comptroller said in his report. ''This budget simply has not held together.''
 New York is facing a combination of ills, including the troubles on Wall Street -- its main revenue engine -- rising unemployment and shrinking tax collections. And the problem is likely to worsen soon, when federal stimulus spending and the state's increased taxes on the wealthy both expire and state spending is projected to soar. 
 There have been signs of a recovery at some big banks, including JPMorgan Chase, which reported surprisingly strong profits on Wednesday. There have also been some positive signs in Wall Street bonuses, which are a critical source of state tax revenue.
 At the same time, with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and Bank of America's purchase of Merrill Lynch, Wall Street's landscape has permanently changed. 
 ''Wall Street has shed thousands of jobs in the course of this recession, so the employment base is down from what it was,'' Mr. DiNapoli said. 
 Despite the financial gloom, Albany has shown little inclination to reduce spending. The budget passed in April increased spending by more than 9 percent, as lawmakers used the federal stimulus aid to bolster spending on social programs. 
 ''Despite billions in federal stimulus aid, we now find ourselves in a deficit situation that is largely the result of spending money we don't have,'' said Senator Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, who leads the Senate's Republican caucus. 
 Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit organization, said of lawmakers, ''They seem to be looking on the federal stimulus money and the personal income tax surcharge as all that needs to happen here, and that's completely an error.''
 ''They've been sticking their heads in the sand as revenues continue to drop, which makes the problem worse,'' she added. ''They'll have to go into it in crisis mode.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAYOFFS (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



436 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor Has Added Many Jobs, and Lost Some, Too

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
During much of his tenure, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has taken credit for helping to create hundreds of thousands of jobs in New York City, from high-paying construction work to sales jobs at dozens of new big-box stores. Even as the city plods through the recession, the mayor has set a goal to ''retain and create'' an additional 400,000 jobs over the next six years.
 The debate over how much influence a mayor, a governor or a president has over jobs is one that may never be settled. But if Mayor Bloomberg can be judged on the numbers he has used as evidence of his own success, those numbers, while generally accurate, also contain some warning signs about the future of employment in the city.
 Even in the downturn, the city has 130,000 more jobs than it had when Mr. Bloomberg became mayor, according to state labor statistics. Working-class New Yorkers who kept their jobs or stayed in the same field saw their pay rise faster than the rate of inflation. 
 But the overall job market constantly shifts, particularly in a recession, when the economy sheds jobs and even whole industries. And in New York, middle- and working-class jobs that have disappeared -- in fields like manufacturing, wholesale distribution and administrative services -- have been replaced by jobs in sectors like retail, food service and home health care that generally pay less. 
 ''There's been much more growth in lower-wage industries than in middle-wage industries,'' said James Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group. ''That's a challenge for people struggling to maintain a decent livelihood in New York City, given the cost of housing and everything else.''
 Several research groups have concluded that jobs created for working-class New Yorkers will continue to be in these low-wage fields. A study by a nonpartisan group, the Center for an Urban Future, said that the two occupations that will have the most openings in New York City through 2014 are retail salesperson, with an average annual pay of $20,690, and cashier, with pay of $16,800.
 ''Working-class people with limited educational backgrounds and limited skills are going to be fighting for scraps at the bottom,'' said Jonathan Bowles, director of the Center for an Urban Future. 
 By August 2008, Mayor Bloomberg oversaw a city with 3.244 million jobs, its highest number since 1969, according to Mr. Parrott. With roughly 227,000 more jobs than when the mayor took office, the city had surpassed national job growth rates, a point the mayor proudly noted in his 2009 State of the City address, when he said the city had added a quarter-million jobs before the slowdown.
 But much as boom times can make elected officials look like Midases, recessions can tarnish them. From August 2008 to August 2009, the city lost 96,739 private-sector jobs. These included 35,986 finance and insurance jobs, which paid $280,872 annually on average in 2008. They also included 10,712 construction jobs, which paid on average $68,119.
 Some trends predated the recession. The manufacturing industry, in steady decline for decades, lost 43 percent of its New York City jobs from January 2002 to August 2009. In 2008, these jobs paid on average $52,758 a year. 
 According to the Center for an Urban Future, manufacturing accounts for about 3.2 percent of the job market in New York City, compared with 8 percent in San Francisco and 12.7 percent in Los Angeles. At the same time, New York City has a higher proportion of lower-paying jobs in health care and social assistance -- 17.4 percent of the work force -- than those cities.
 ''New York used to be a place that really nurtured a middle class,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''There's compelling evidence that we have done worse than other cities.''
 Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, the city's business-development arm, defended the city's efforts to create more middle-income jobs and says these jobs have not yet been fully realized for the long term.
 ''The New York City economy is in some ways like an aircraft carrier,'' Mr. Pinsky said. ''You can't change 50-year trends in five years.''
 The mayor has used several programs to try to keep or add jobs, including development projects like modernizing the Hunts Point Terminal in the Bronx, which supplies wholesale food for many of the city's groceries and restaurants. He has created an emergency loan program for small businesses and streamlined the process of obtaining business permits. 
 A construction boom -- not only of private residential buildings, but also of public projects like schools, libraries and a new police academy -- stimulated the building trades.
 The mayor has also invested tens of millions of city dollars to encourage the creation of a thriving biotechnology industry, seen by many as the growth sector of the future. The city has invested in a large research space at the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park and is supporting the $700 million East River Science Park, a complex of office and lab space next to New York University Medical Center that is scheduled to open next year.
 To try to reserve new jobs for lower-income New Yorkers, he says he will push community colleges to do a better job of turning out students with job skills.
 Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University who has been an informal adviser to Mr. Bloomberg, credited the mayor with creating jobs by taking on projects like the science park, the Hunts Point market, the Brooklyn Navy Yard and Homeport in Staten Island.
 ''He took on some of the messiest and most complicated projects,'' he said. ''Economic development takes longer than educating a child in school. It doesn't take eight years. It takes 15 years. The great successes of Bloomberg are getting things done that previous mayors were afraid to deal with.''
 But at the moment, opportunities are concentrated in lower-wage fields. Dale Grant, whose firm, Grant Associates, runs one of the city's work-force training centers in Queens, said that her company used to be able to place people in entry-level jobs like bank teller, paying $10 to $12 an hour but eventually leading to bank careers paying $50,000 to $60,000 a year. 
 Those jobs have virtually disappeared, she said, replaced by lower-paying jobs in high-end stores like Gracious Home and Banana Republic, where entry-level positions often pay $20,000 to $25,000 a year and assistant manager jobs pay $40,000 to $50,000 a year. 
 Her firm also places people in education jobs that include teaching assistant positions in charter schools that pay $30,000 to $35,000 a year and tutoring jobs that would pay $30,000 to $40,000 if they were full time, but ordinarily they are not.
 But even retail jobs can be hard to find in this economy. Carlos Peralta, 37, of Bushwick, Brooklyn, worked in a warehouse from 2004 to 2009, earning $22,000 a year cutting phone company cable. Since he lost his job three months ago, he has been applying for jobs at retailers like BJ's Wholesale Club. So far he has had no interviews.
 ''I'm on the computer all night'' looking for a job, he said.
 He is also considering going to college, and has been researching scholarships he learned about from the unemployment office.
 For New Yorkers who held onto their jobs, the last few years brought larger paychecks, at least through 2008, according to the Census Bureau's most recent income estimates. Adjusted for inflation, median income in New York City rose 8 percent, to $51,116, between 2002 and 2008, according to the bureau.
 Frank Zucco, 46, a painter from Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, watched his pay rise to about $65,000 in 2008, from about $45,000 in 2002. This year he is on track to earn $80,000, including about $20,000 in overtime because of demand for workers on public sector projects, like school construction. Mr. Zucco, who is also the financial secretary for his union local, said that he has found his fellow painters have been doing just as well.
 ''There's no more money in the private sector. Most of the work moved over to city work and public work,'' he said. ''As far as New York is concerned, Mayor Bloomberg has been doing pretty good in terms of creating jobs for us.''
 Many experts are hesitant to give too much credit, or blame, to mayors for job creation or losses. Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative group, said that cities are their own economic engines and that politicians have little impact. ''Most municipal economic development strategies matter only on the margins,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 Some advocates for low-wage workers would like Mr. Bloomberg to exert one power that he, along with the City Council, does have: to create a city minimum wage that exceeds the federal minimum, currently $7.25 an hour. Cities that have done so, like San Francisco ($9.79) and Santa Fe ($9.85), have not suffered, according to Paul Sonn, legal co-director of the National Employment Law Project. 
 Andrew Brent, a Bloomberg spokesman, said that the mayor favored a higher minimum wage everywhere, not just in New York; Mr. Pinsky, of the city's economic development corporation, said that the minimum wage was a matter for the State Legislature to address.
 For now, minimum wage is the best that some workers can hope for. In her eight years in New York, Adela Valdez has watched her wages ebb from a $19,200-a-year job washing laundry in Manhattan and a $21,000-a-year factory job making lampshades to her current job, working as a home care aide in Queens for $14,400 a year. Julissa Bisono, an organizer with Make the Road New York, which gives legal assistance to low-wage workers, said Ms. Valdez is stuck. 
 ''She hasn't found any job that pays better than what she is making now,'' said Ms. Bisono. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adela Valdez earns about $14,000 a year as a home care aide for Joseph Martinez in Queens. She once earned $21,000 annually in a factory job.(pg. A27)
 Frank Zucco, a painter, may earn $80,000 this year because of a demand for workers in projects like school construction.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) CHART: Job Gains and Losses Under Bloomberg: During Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's tenure, many of the job gains have been in lower-paying sectors.(Source: Fiscal Policy Institute)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INFLATION (73%); WHOLESALERS (71%); STATISTICS (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); LIBERALISM (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



437 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks $250 Check For Retirees And Veterans

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama urged Congress on Wednesday to authorize a second $250 stimulus check to be sent early next year to an estimated 57 million Social Security recipients, veterans and people with disabilities. 
 In effect, the payment would be in lieu of a cost-of-living increase for Social Security beneficiaries next year. The White House request, and receptive statements from Congressional Democratic leaders, anticipated an announcement on Thursday from the Social Security Administration that there would be no cost-of-living adjustment for 2010 because the inflation rate has been negative as the recession has driven down prices.
 By contrast, a year ago the cost of living adjustment was 5.8 percent, reflecting strong inflation and high energy prices.
 White House officials put the cost of the checks at $13 billion. The first $250 checks went out in May as part of the $787 billion two-year stimulus package. As with that package, the officials said Mr. Obama would not ask Congress to offset the cost with other savings because the checks were intended to stimulate the economy, and budget cuts or tax increases would defeat that. 
 The money would go to all Social Security beneficiaries, regardless of their income, as well as disabled veterans, those eligible for railroad retirement payments and people who receive federal and state government pensions instead of Social Security.
 Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody'sEconomy.com, said the checks would not add a lot to economic growth early next year. But, he added, ''This is symbolic of policy makers' willingness to provide more temporary help to the economy, which I believe is appropriate.''
 Support for the additional payments is certain to be bipartisan, given the political influence of older Americans, but Republicans will almost certainly seize the opportunity to draw attention to persistent economic woes.
 ''This regrettably shows that families and seniors continue to struggle in this severe economic downturn, and that the 'stimulus' has failed to live up to its billing,'' said Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio and the House minority leader.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VETERANS (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); BUDGET CUTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



438 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: In Effort to Blend Health Bills, Public Option Is a Big Hurdle

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the White House and Congressional leaders turned in earnest on Wednesday to working out big differences in the five health care bills, perhaps no issue loomed as a greater obstacle than whether to establish a government-run competitor to the insurance industry.
 One day after the Senate Finance Committee approved a measure without a ''public option,'' the question on Capitol Hill was how President Obama could reconcile the deep divisions within his party on the issue. All eyes were on Senator Olympia J. Snowe, the Maine Republican whose call for a ''trigger'' that would establish a government plan as a fallback is one of the leading compromise ideas. 
 Two senior administration officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the White House looked favorably on the Snowe plan. But liberal Democrats were maneuvering against it Wednesday, arguing that Ms. Snowe, the lone Republican to vote in favor of the Finance Committee's bill, was gaining undue influence over the talks.
 ''It's one vote, she won't make the commitment on the final product, and she says she's got to have the trigger,'' said Representative Raul M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, who is leading an effort in the House to round up votes for a government plan akin to Medicare. ''I think the administration has put her in the driver's seat; it's very disconcerting.''
 Of the many difficult decisions remaining -- including how to pay for an overhaul and how many people will be left uninsured -- few carry as much political weight for the president as the public option. The plan, which would be for people who do not get health care through their employers, has become a proxy for a larger debate over where Mr. Obama is taking the country.
 ''What's going on here is not simply health care and the public option,'' said Kenneth M. Duberstein, a chief of staff in the Reagan White House. ''In light of the auto bailout, the bank bailout, the stimulus package, the public option fight is a surrogate for how much government is too much.''
 With Democrats split, an array of compromises are being floated -- including the nonprofit cooperatives in the Finance Committee bill and the latest idea to capture some Democrats' fancy, leaving the public option to the states. But economists say few would fulfill Mr. Obama's stated goal of injecting ''choice and competition'' into the marketplace.
 Mr. Obama's health care adviser, Nancy-Ann DeParle, said she was convinced that Democrats could ''find convergence.'' She and several other officials, including Rahm Emanuel, the chief of staff, and Peter R. Orszag, the budget director, met Wednesday with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, to discuss merging the Senate's bills. 
 Aides say Mr. Obama has reviewed the alternatives to the public option but has not settled on which, if any, he prefers. And some Democrats say a backlash against insurers is creating renewed interest in a public plan. But in private conversations with Ms. Snowe, Mr. Obama has brought up her idea for a trigger that would create a government-run plan in states where at least 5 percent of residents lacked access to affordable care. One senior White House official called the idea ''very reasonable.''
 As Mr. Obama originally envisioned it, the public option would be a national government plan, offered as part of a menu of plans available to the uninsured. The idea, he has said, was to ''keep the private sector honest'' and hold down costs by injecting more competition into the system. 
 Insurers balked, saying it would put them out of business. Conservatives called Mr. Obama a socialist. Ultimately, he dialed back, calling the public option ''just a sliver'' of his overall plan. 
 The five bills making their way through Congress -- three in the House and two in the Senate -- reflect the full range of thinking, and also how far lawmakers are from consensus. 
 The most robust public plan, favored by liberals and included in two of the House bills, would tie reimbursement rates for health care providers to those paid by Medicare, reducing the nation's overall health care bill by $110 billion over 10 years, according to estimates the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has provided to lawmakers. The third bill contains an idea being pushed by centrist Democrats to negotiate reimbursement rates with providers, saving roughly $25 billion over 10 years, the budget office estimates say.
 As House Democratic leaders try to meld those approaches, liberals like Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, said they saw support building for the stronger public option because it saves more money. ''It's the best cost-containment measure we can get,'' she said. 
 But centrists like Representative Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee, who teaches health policy at Vanderbilt University, call the Medicare plan unworkable. Mr. Cooper said Medicare reimburses at such low rates that few doctors would sign on for such a plan.
 And the idea of tying reimbursement to Medicare is unlikely to pass the Senate. There, the health committee has approved a negotiated-rates public option, while the Finance Committee voted to set aside money to encourage the creation of private insurance cooperatives. The bill bars existing insurance companies from forming co-ops.
 The budget office's analysis of the finance panel's bill concluded that co-ops would have ''very little effect'' on the number of insured or on federal costs because ''they seem unlikely to establish a significant market presence in many areas of the country.''
 Now Mr. Reid must merge the two Senate bills. He has said he likes Ms. Snowe's trigger proposal -- ''a pretty doggone good idea,'' he called it in a recent conference call with Nevada voters. 
 But last week a new twist on the public option took hold in the Senate. Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware, proposed leaving the decision on whether to establish a public plan up to the states. The plan is not fully fleshed out, Mr. Carper said in an interview, saying he simply wanted to ''serve as a catalyst to others to think outside the box.'' 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, jumped on the idea; he and Mr. Carper are talking about how to create a national government insurance plan that would let states opt in or out. ''All the naysayers weren't looking at what is happening on the ground,'' Mr. Schumer said, ''which is that moderate members are open to a public option.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: VARIATIONS OF A PUBLIC HEALTH PLAN (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); MEDICARE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BANK FAILURES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (78%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); HARRY REID (58%); RAUL M GRIJALVA (58%); NANCY-ANN DEPARLE (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009



439 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: 41 Charged With Widespread Mortgage Fraud

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors announced charges on Thursday against 41 lenders, lawyers and others in the real estate industry who they said used fraud to obtain more than $64 million in loans connected to more than 100 residential properties in New York State.
 An investigation involving the F.B.I., the Secret Service, the New York State Banking Department and other agencies led to the wire fraud, bank fraud and conspiracy charges against the lawyers, mortgage brokers and loan officers, who engaged in complex plots that operated over a period of years, said Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
 ''The fraud schemes alleged in the cases unsealed today reflect a veritable smorgasbord of scams,'' Mr. Bharara said during a news conference in Lower Manhattan. ''Whether the economy was going up or the economy was going down, these alleged fraudsters were working feverishly to game the system.''
 Mr. Bharara said that the investigation, which he called Operation Bad Deeds, uncovered eight separate cases in which people were accused of obtaining loans through fraudulent means by falsifying mortgage applications, flipping properties and stripping equity from properties.
 The targets of the fraud included desperate homeowners who were having difficulty making mortgage payments or facing foreclosure, Mr. Bharara said.
 On Thursday, 32 people surrendered or were arrested in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and North Carolina, prosecutors said. Four others had been charged previously, and five more were still at large.
 Prosecutors said that the largest scheme involved eight people connected to a mortgage brokerage firm in Queens called GuyAmerican. Among them were Peggy Persaud, a loan officer for the GuyAmerican Funding Corporation, which arranged loans from banks, and Ravi Persaud, a lawyer. The two Persauds -- between whom there is no known relationship -- and the others are accused of fraudulently obtaining $23 million in loans involving 44 properties.
 The indictment said that the defendants in that case recruited straw purchasers to buy homes in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, sometimes looking for owners who were desperate to sell. They then resold those properties at inflated prices to other straw buyers, arranging for the new buyers to obtain loans using fraudulent information.
 Ms. Persaud received hundreds of thousands of dollars in commissions based on the fraudulent loans, the indictment said.
 Once the second straw buyers obtained loans, some money was transferred to bank accounts controlled by two lawyers, Mr. Persaud and Cheddi Goberdhan, who were hired to represent the lenders, the indictment said. Later, those lawyers issued payments to the straw buyers and others involved, according to the indictment.
 After taking control of homes from the first straw buyers, the defendants sometimes continued to flip the properties to other straw buyers, obtaining additional fraudulent loans in the process, the indictment says.
 Eventually, prosecutors said, the defendants would strip all the equity from the homes, putting them through sham transactions and saddling the properties with enormous debt.
 In another case involving a Bronx real estate company called MTC, 10 people were accused of participating in a $5.6 million ''foreclosure rescue'' scheme in which they sought out troubled mortgage holders facing foreclosure, running radio ads in which they presented themselves as saviors.
 An indictment said that the defendants in that case, including the chief of MTC, Lavette M. Bills, duped troubled homeowners into selling their properties at low prices or persuaded them to transfer the deeds to their homes, promising to help solve their financial problems and then return the properties. 
 Instead, prosecutors said, Ms. Bills and other defendants flipped those properties to straw buyers at inflated prices subsidized by unaffordable loans that the defendants persuaded lenders to issue based on false documentation.
 In response to a question from a reporter, Mr. Bharara said he could not confirm or deny whether investigators would look at the banks that issued loans based on false information.
 ''This office has a tradition of looking at institutions and executives of institutions,'' he said. ''And we will go wherever the facts lead.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); ARRESTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



440 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: A Hatchet Job So Bad It's Good

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In the past, the insurance industry's power has been a major barrier to health-care reform. Most notably, the industry paid for the infamous ''Harry and Louise'' ads that helped kill the Clinton plan. But times have changed.
 Last weekend, the lobbying organization America's Health Insurance Plans, or AHIP, released a report attacking the reform plan just passed by the Senate Finance Committee. Some news organizations gave the report prominent, uncritical coverage. But health-care experts quickly, and correctly, dismissed it as a hatchet job. And the end result of AHIP's blunder may be a better bill than we would otherwise have had. 
For 2009, it turns out, is not 1993. Once again, Republicans have tried to kill reform with smears and scare stories. But all they seem to have killed with their cries of ''socialism'' and warnings about ''death panels'' is their own credibility. Some form of health-care reform is highly likely to pass. 
 So it's a different game than it was 16 years ago. And it's a game that the insurance industry apparently doesn't know how to play.
 The motivation for the AHIP report seems to have been the decision by the Finance Committee to weaken the penalties for individuals who don't sign up for insurance, even as it retains regulations requiring that insurers offer the same policies to everyone, regardless of medical history. The industry worries that some people will game the system, remaining uninsured as long as they're healthy, then signing up when they get sick.
 This is, believe it or not, a valid concern. Many health-care economists believe that a strong individual mandate, requiring that almost everyone sign up, will be needed to make health reform work. And the Finance Committee probably did weaken the mandate too much.
 But AHIP, apparently unable to help itself, didn't stop there. Instead, the report threw every anti-reform argument the authors could think of at the wall, hoping that something would stick.
 One argument was particularly striking: the claim that attempts to limit Medicare spending would lead to higher insurance premiums. In fact, the report assumes that 100 percent of any reduction in Medicare payments to hospitals will translate into higher costs for patients with private insurance.
 The only way to justify this claim is to assume that all hospitals are purely charitable institutions, charging as little as they possibly can. Now, some hospitals may fit this description. But all of them?
 What's more, this argument stands the usual logic of markets on its head: if you believe AHIP's story, competition raises prices instead of reducing them. And it doesn't matter where the competition comes from: anyone who gets a better deal, whether it's Medicare or a private insurer, makes life worse for everyone else. I don't believe that, and neither should you.
 Of course, the report doesn't mention these implications. The only bad competition it talks about is competition from the government. Specifically, it claims that a public insurance option would be a bad thing -- not because it would be inefficient, but because the public plan would negotiate better prices. Isn't that an argument for, not against, such a plan?
 Which brings us to the ways in which AHIP may have done health reform a favor.
 As I said, the individual mandate probably should be stronger than it is in the Finance Committee's bill. But there's a reason the mandate was weakened: fear that too many people would balk at the cost of insurance, even with the subsidies provided to lower-income individuals and families. So why not address that cost?
 Aside from making the subsidies larger, which they should be, there are at least two changes to the legislation that would help limit costs. First, health exchanges -- special, regulated markets in which individuals and small businesses can buy insurance -- can be made stronger, in effect giving small buyers a better bargaining position. Second, the public option -- missing from the Finance Committee's bill -- can be brought back in, giving private insurers some real competition.
 The insurance industry won't like these changes, but that matters less than it did a week ago.
 There's also another point, which House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has stressed. Part of the opposition to a strong individual mandate comes from the sense that Americans will be forced to buy policies from a greedy insurance industry. Giving people, literally, another option -- the right to buy into a public plan instead -- would defuse that opposition.
 Even with stronger exchanges and a public option, health reform would probably increase, not reduce, insurance industry profits. But the insurers wanted it all. The good news is that by overreaching, they may have ensured that they won't get it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INSURANCE LAW (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); CHARITIES (71%); WRITERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



441 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: A School's Painful Decision

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''The Uneducated American'' (column, Oct. 9):
 Paul Krugman's column certainly hit home, as I recently had to make the unprecedented, painful decision to close enrollment at LaGuardia Community College. More than 1,000 students -- almost all of whom are low-income and the first generation of students in their families to seek a college education -- were unable to enroll. 
 We have neither the classrooms nor the faculty and staff to handle surging demand. This happens as students understand that success in today's global economy requires an education beyond the high school level. 
 The problem is similarly acute across the nation; community colleges are experiencing unprecedented enrollment growth and flat or declining budgets. 
 Responding to these challenges, President Obama has proposed an ambitious but necessary goal: by 2020 to once again have America lead the world in the proportion of our citizens who graduate from college. 
 Closing admissions to qualified students and deep cuts in higher education budgets by states across the nation will make that goal only harder to achieve. What's needed now is a strong and steady federal commitment to bolster state and local governments during this recession to ensure that Americans don't find a ''sold out'' sign hanging at the admissions office when they come to get a college degree. 
 Gail O. Mellow
 Long Island City, Queens, Oct. 9, 2009
 The writer is the president of LaGuardia Community College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOSINGS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



442 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 510 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
PREPARING PETS
 For Emergencies
 Consider it a government mantra: No Pet Left Behind.
 Or if a pet is left behind during a disaster evacuation, it must have food and water, and the home must be marked to indicate to rescue workers that a pet is still inside. Departing owners should also take with them a color photo of them and their pets, to help identify them later. 
 These are among the suggestions that officials at New York City's Office of Emergency Management are pressing onto pet owners in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, which displaced an estimated 200,000 animals.
 Because people risked -- and lost -- their lives over their pets during the storm, Congress passed the Pets Evacuation and Transportation Standards Act in 2006, which required local disaster preparedness plans to take pets into account.
 ''People were seeing it's not just a pet-lover issue,'' said Steve Gruber, the spokesman for the Mayor's Alliance for NYC's Animals, a coalition of about a hundred animal rescue groups and shelters. ''It became a human issue.''
 The city's emergency shelters now include space for a pet shelter, said Christina Farrell, a deputy commissioner for the Office of Emergency Management. And pet owners are not shy about taking their animals along in an evacuation. During the floods in the Midwest in June 2008, one shelter in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, housed a thousand pets, including birds, lizards and even a red-eared slider turtle.
 New York's procedure for a coordinated pet rescue is being finalized over the next few weeks, city officials said. Animal groups held a pet preparedness event in Union Square on Thursday, demonstrating the effectiveness of microchips, offering emergency bags -- call them ''doggy bags'' -- and demonstrating pet CPR. ''You have to be more gentle,'' said Dina Maniotis, the health and human services director for the Office of Emergency Management.
 City officials had a chance to use new pet emergency procedures when a crane collapsed in March 2008 on the Upper East Side. In that evacuation, about 40 pets were abandoned as their owners rushed out of their homes, said Ms. Maniotis, who helped coordinate the rescue. 
 Cats were among the hardest to rescue because they like to hide, Ms. Maniotis said. ''We even rescued a big snake,'' she said. ''It was four feet long and green.''
 ''Residents were extremely distressed,'' Ms. Maniotis said. ''I've worked in social services for 20 years. I have never seen such happy residents hugging and kissing me after we got their pet out.'' JENNIFER 8. LEE 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Unemployment Up: New York City's unemployment rate rose to 10.3 percent in September as summer jobs programs ended and businesses that usually add staff members in the fall held off on hiring, the state's Labor Department reported on Thursday.
 Over all, the employment picture was ''markedly weaker'' than it had been in August, when the city's unemployment rate was 10.2 percent, said James Brown, an analyst for the Labor Department. (The department revised the August rate from 10.3 percent.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cat receiving a microchip at a pet preparedness event in Union Square.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETS (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); CITIES (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CATS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); HURRICANES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



443 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Bank Earnings Show Shifting Landscape of Wall Street

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Jack Healy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Earnings results from two financial giants underscored the new order taking shape on Wall Street, as its strongest banks post huge profits while other once-mighty players continue to strain under losses from souring loans.
 A year after dozens of banks accepted billions in taxpayer bailouts to avoid being swept away by the financial crisis, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup on Thursday reported how they had fared over the summer. The earnings also highlighted the political and financial obstacles now facing each bank.
 At Citigroup, which is still on government life support, spiraling consumer losses overwhelmed strong trading results. The bank's headline earnings number -- net income of $101 million -- came before it accounted for $288 million in preferred dividends and a debt exchange that gives Washington 34 percent of earnings. 
 After including the items, the loss to stockholders was 27 cents a share, or $3.2 billion, compared with a loss of 61 cents a share, or $2.9 billion, in the third quarter a year ago.
 Meanwhile, quarterly performance at the banking giant Goldman Sachs cemented its status at the top of the financial heap, alongside JPMorgan Chase. On Wednesday, JPMorgan reported another profitable quarter, igniting a rally in the stock markets. 
 Goldman, which repaid its $10 billion government bailout in June, reported that trading gains and corporate investments contributed to a $3.19 billion profit in the third quarter. In announcing its results, Goldman promptly went on the defensive about its bonuses, which are being doled out while the unemployment rates chugs toward 10 percent.
 ''There is a massive divide between Wall Street and Main Street,'' said the analyst Meredith A. Whitney. ''Main Street is suffering while Wall Street is doing great. It's like the Olive Garden is empty while San Pietro is packed,'' a reference to the posh Italian restaurant in Midtown Manhattan.
 In part to allay criticism of its profits and bonuses, Goldman announced a $200 million contribution to its foundation, which promotes education.
 Goldman also disclosed how much it had set aside for its annual bonus pool. It said that it had earmarked $5.35 billion in compensation and benefits, an increase of 84 percent from the year earlier period, putting it on course for a record payout to its executives by the end of 2009.
 During a conference call, Goldman's chief financial officer, David A. Viniar, rejected criticism that the bank's high bonus levels ignored the tougher times experienced by other people elsewhere in the economy.
 By paying the bonuses, Mr. Viniar said, Goldman was trying to make a difficult ''trade-off'' between ''being fair to our people who have done a remarkable job'' and ''also what's going on in the world.''
 ''We are very focused on what is going on in the world,'' he said. ''We are focused on the economic climate. We are focused on what is going on with other people.''
 At Citigroup, the results added to the mounting pressure on the chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, to turn around the troubled bank, which is one-third owned by taxpayers. Mr. Pandit has been trying to shrink the bank's balance sheet in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
 All the while, he is trying to find a way to repay part the $45 billion in federal aid and get out from under the government's thumb. That has made it crucial for the bank to show investors it had a gain in the quarter, no matter how it eked it out -- hence, stressing the $101 million in income from continuing operations. Citigroup's shares were down 4.8 percent in midmorning trading.
 The results came on the coattails of its trading operations, which cranked out good results from its bond and currency businesses. Still, its credit card and mortgage units are hemorrhaging money, contributing to about $9.4 billion in consumer losses. And the bank added another $802 million to its reserves, about half as much as JPMorgan Chase set aside on Wednesday, as it braces for several more quarters of losses. Both banks now have loss reserves of over 5 percent of their loan portfolios.
 ''This was an important quarter for us; sustainable profitability remains our primary goal in the near term. '' Mr. Pandit said in a statement. ''While consumer credit trends are improving in international markets, the U.S. consumer credit environment remains challenging.''
 It was another messy quarter for the company. Beyond widely diverging figures between its reported net loss and operating profit stemming from accounting treatment, the bank suffered a $1.7 billion hit to its revenue from an another adjustment, due to the narrowing credit spreads from perceived improvement in those financial stability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); DIVIDENDS (79%); INCOME TAX (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PREFERRED STOCK (69%); BONUS PAY (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



444 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: In Shift From '08, Holiday Airfare Is Soaring Daily

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
Last year, procrastinators were rewarded when they finally got around to booking flights for holiday travel. Back then, airlines were not prepared for the sharp falloff in travel and offered last-minute deals to fill up empty planes.
 This year? Dilly-dallying, even waiting just a few days, could carry a steep price. Fares, though still lower now than at this time last year, are rising each day, a trajectory that began more than a month ago.
 In the last week alone, overall fares for Thanksgiving travel rose 6 percent, according to Bing Travel, part of Microsoft's search engine. Ticket prices for the most popular itinerary, departing Wednesday, Nov. 25, and returning Sunday, Nov. 29, are up 10 percent in the last week. 
 In recent weeks, some flights have risen even more. From New York, a round-trip American Airlines flight to Chicago that cost $354 on Sept. 14 was $540 on Thursday, a 52 percent jump, according to Yapta.com, which tracks fares.
 A JetBlue flight to Orlando that was $524 on Sept. 24 was $614 on Thursday, and a Continental flight from Newark to San Francisco that was $504 on Sept. 18 was $770. 
 That does not count all the extra fees -- some added just for holiday travel days -- that airlines are charging this year.
 The professional crystal-ball gazers on fares agree that fliers should not wait to book their tickets. 
 ''Travelers should be shopping now,'' said Joel Grus, who tracks airfares at Bing Travel. ''If a price seems good to them, they should get it.'' 
 Rick Seaney, chief executive of FareCompare.com, wrote in his online Holiday Travel Guide, ''Holiday travel procrastinators do so at their own peril this year, and practical travelers should be shopping now and buying before the end of October.''
 Anne Eddy is kicking herself for waiting. In August, she paid $313 for a round-trip flight from Providence, R.I., to Houston to take her son Duncan to Rice University, where he is a freshman. A week later, she paid $632 -- roughly double -- to buy him a ticket home for Thanksgiving.
 ''I felt behind the game,'' said Ms. Eddy, a health care administrator from Needham, Mass. 
 Determined to get ahead of it, she immediately booked a flight for him at Christmas. It was $309 round trip. A recent online search showed that if she had waited any longer for the Thanksgiving reservation, she might have had to pay more than $800 -- if she could get a seat at all.
 The lesson?
 ''If you book way in advance, you can get really good deals,'' she said. 
 Airlines now have an advantage in the endless game of cat-and-mouse with travelers. Because of the recession, they have been grounding planes. Fewer seats for sale gives them more power to set prices, since they are less desperate to get even modest fares to help fill up planes.
 The number of domestic seats for sale is down 5 percent this month, compared with October last year, and they are down 21 percent from October 2000, according to OAG, an aviation-data firm. 
 ''Essentially, that's creating a sellers' market,'' said Jeff Pecor, a spokesman for Yapta.com, which alerts fliers to price drops even after the ticket has been bought so travelers can call the airline to claim a travel credit.
 ''While we're tracking roughly the same number of flights for this holiday season as last year, we have issued fewer price drop alerts on flights,'' he added.
 All of this means travelers who plan early and are flexible in their schedules are more likely to get a bargain this year. 
 Marisa W. Green, an orchestral conductor from Hightstown, N.J., was able to lower the cost of her Thanksgiving flight to Cleveland about $75, to $226 round trip, by leaving from Newark and returning to Philadelphia. 
 It also helped that she was able to avoid the Wednesday before Thanksgiving and the Sunday after and is making a stop in Baltimore on the way there. 
 ''The worst thing that happens is I miss my connection,'' she said. 
 ''The best thing that could happen: one of those flights is oversold and I get bumped,'' she added, because she is in no rush to get home and would be willing to give up her seat and endure a delay in exchange for a voucher for a free flight.
 She may get her wish. The rate at which passengers were bumped in the second quarter of this year rose about 40 percent compared with a year earlier, according to the Department of Transportation, even though that agency last year doubled the penalties airlines must pay passengers who are denied seats. 
 Passengers are generally reluctant to give up seats when trying to get home for the holidays. But they may be even more disinclined to raise their hands this year because they may have trouble getting a seat on another flight.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marisa Green saved $75 on her Thanksgiving flight to Cleveland by leaving from Newark and returning to Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A3) CHART: Predicting a Bump in Fares: In the last week, overall fares for Thanksgiving travel rose 6 percent, according to Bing Travel, part of Microsoft's search engine. Bing travel predicts that 2009 fares will trend closely to 2007 fares.(Source: Bing Travel)(pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); THANKSGIVING (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (70%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



445 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: It's All About the Dollar

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
The mood of participants here at the world's largest trade show on Thursday depended largely on how they were being affected by the weak American dollar. 
 As throngs of prospective buyers swarmed the exhibitions, equal to five times the floor space of the Empire State Building, Chinese exporters were upbeat. By keeping China's currency, the renminbi, tightly yoked to the weak and weakening dollar, Beijing had made Chinese exports increasingly competitive around the world. 
 ''We are very confident,'' said Liu En Tian, the marketing manager of the Huasheng Jiangquan Group, a manufacturer of ceramic tiles in Linyi City. ''Already the buyers who are coming this morning are more than last year.'' 
 Like those of many Chinese manufacturers, his company's exports fell by nearly half last winter because of the global economic slowdown, but they are now down only 20 percent from their peak more than a year ago because of a surge in sales to South America and the Middle East. ''The economy will get better very soon'' around the world, Mr. Liu said.
 But the atmosphere was markedly different in two halls reserved for non-Chinese exporters, amid a mishmash of emblematic exports from 35 countries: designer housewares from Italy, rugs from India, bird's nest soup from Malaysia and lawyers from the United States.
 European exporters were despondent that their products were being priced out of Asian markets because of the relatively dear euro. Americans were witnessing firsthand the changing hierarchy of the global economy.
 China is no longer content to put its exports in containers and ship them to foreign ports, leaving the distribution and other moneymaking activities to others.
 David J. Yang, a lawyer from San Francisco at the Canton fair, said his law firm had been receiving more and more questions from Chinese companies on how to buy American real estate and how to comply with American laws on imports, immigration and employment.
 ''Now they are changing the mode -- they are looking around and they can expand,'' he said.
 Wholesalers and distributors from dozens of countries snapped up brochures and business cards, as Chinese exporters said they were convinced that sales were finally rebounding. But the rising demand was from Europe and, especially, from emerging markets, with relatively modest gains from the United States.
 As exporters here reviewed their orders for the coming months, they described a consistent pattern: Sales to emerging markets were recovering rapidly, demand from Europe was starting to rebound as the Chinese currency fell against the euro, and buying interest from the United States remained fairly weak. 
 With the renminbi linked to the dollar, China's currency advantage would not be increasing over time in the United States as it would be against currencies other than the dollar. 
 China's many policies to help exporters, from tax breaks to currency market intervention, have relieved unemployment in China -- but at the expense of contributing to it in other countries, and that is starting to fan trade tensions. President Obama imposed tariffs starting at 35 percent on tires from China last month, and antidumping and antisubsidy cases against China are piling up in front of trade tribunals around the world.
 The dollar has fallen steeply against the euro, the yen and most other currencies over the last two weeks, with a broad index of the American currency dropping Thursday to its lowest level in 14 months. But the Chinese government has intervened heavily in currency markets to make sure that the renminbi falls with the dollar.
 The result has been a steep slide in the value of the renminbi against the euro, the yen, the Australian dollar and many other currencies, making it cheaper for businesses from Helsinki to Sydney to order from China. 
 The renminbi has fallen 16 percent against the euro since early March and 31 percent against the Australian dollar.
 ''We export a lot to Australia,'' said Linda Zhang, a sales manager at Hebei Wanlong Steel Structure, a maker of prefabricated housing, adding that demand from there ''is coming back.'' 
 Kimmo Tarkkonen, the chairman of SRS Fenno-El, a distributor of lamps and space heaters based on the outskirts of Helsinki, said that he was signing all his contracts with Chinese suppliers in dollars after concluding that the dollar would continue to fall against the euro, making his purchases even cheaper.
 ''We'd rather take the risk,'' he said, adding that the dollar ''is declining all the time, so the risk is minimal.'' 
 Some Chinese companies, in another effort to remain competitive, have even been cutting prices after wages fell during the recent economic downturn. Wages have not fully recovered, and the labor shortages that started to appear shortly before the downturn have not returned to most of the country.
 ''It's easy to find workers -- China has too much labor,'' said Helen Chen, general manager of the Yuyao Panasia International Trading Company in Yuyao in east-central China.
 Transport costs are a small fraction of labor costs, but they are now rebounding from a vertiginous plunge over the winter.
 Neil Dekker, a container analyst at Drewry Shipping Consultants in London, said that total freight costs for a 40-foot container from China to Rotterdam had climbed to $2,500 last month, from $1,475 early this year and $3,200 in September of last year.
 Sending a 40-foot container from China to Los Angeles cost $1,450 to $1,475 last month, compared with $900 early this year and $2,050 in September of last year.
 Luca Bartolini, the chief executive of Unitekno, which manufactures top-priced steam vacuum cleaners in Umbria, Italy, wore an elegant charcoal gray suit as he sat disconsolately by himself in a booth in one of the two non-Chinese halls, in the equivalent of the attic of the trade fair, no buyers in sight.
 The rise of the euro has been so abrupt that Asian customers were actually canceling contracts to buy his company's products, even when such cancellations cause penalties, Mr. Bartolini said. The contracts were denominated in euros, so the steam vacuum cleaners have become more expensive in terms of Asian currencies, almost all of which are informally or explicitly linked to the dollar.
 ''This level of the euro, we think, really is too much,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prospective buyers flocked to the Canton Fair, the world's largest trade show, on Thursday.
 The exhibition hall for the Canton Fair has five times the floor space of the Empire State Building.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Weakening the Renminbi: Since July of last year, the Chinese government has intervened heavily to keep the value of the renminbi steady relative to the dollar.(Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); EURO (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CERAMIC TILE MFG (70%); IMMIGRATION (63%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ITALY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



446 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
'PINK PANTHER'
 Smith-Stewart at Kumukumu Gallery
 42 Rivington Street, 
 Lower East Side
 Through Oct. 31
 Some art dealers forced to give up their leases in the dismal economy are taking cues from a current retail phenomenon, the pop-up store. The Smith-Stewart gallery, formerly of Stanton Street, inaugurates a nomadic program with a group exhibition based on the color pink. The art is cheerfully postfeminist (as you might expect) and mostly new (a pleasant surprise). 
 The installation makes the most of the gallery's railroad-style layout. The show is front-loaded with seductive works like Marilyn Minter's photograph ''Pink Snow'' (2009), with its explosion of sugary crystals, and Kate Gilmore's video ''Every Girl Loves Pink'' (2006).
 In her piece Ms. Gilmore tries to squirm her way out of an enclosed corner filled with blush-colored paper. Wearing ballerina tights and high heels, she kicks her legs against a plywood wall. Eventually she slumps, defeated, into her cotton-candy cave.
 Standouts among the works made for this show include Lisa Kirk's abstraction, ''painted'' with fire and makeup products on an oval linen canvas, and Huma Bhabha's intense, magenta pastel of an alienlike female head. At the lighter end of the spectrum are Elif Uras's shapely vase, decorated to look like the torso of a belly dancer, and Brian Lund's drawings based on stage diagrams from ''Cabaret.''
 Some artists seem uninspired by the theme, or hamstrung by the crowded, provisional setup. (Jason Fox, Jen DeNike and Mika Rottenberg are all capable of better.) But on the whole ''Pink Panther'' makes a good argument for the roving-gallery model and, for that matter, the monochromatic show. KAREN ROSENBERG 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DANCERS (72%); BALLET (72%); DANCE (67%); COSMETICS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



447 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 4287 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 20091015
 (Holland Cotter) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org.20091015
 (Ken Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'KANDINSKY,' through Jan. 13. The Guggenheim is not exactly thinking outside the spiral with this sleek retrospective, but then the pioneering abstractionist Wassily Kandinsky (1866-1944) is more than just its foundational artist. He is the angel in the architecture. His swirling, unanchored abstractions are implicit in Frank Lloyd Wright's great circling rotunda, and now they fill it, bottom to top -- a sensational sight that is as much Kandinsky-Wright reunion as retrospective. One of the fullest, clearest views of Kandinsky's achievement in decades, it certainly unmoors the conventional wisdom of precipitous decline after 1921, if not 1914. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. 20091015
 (Roberta Smith)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'DRESS CODES: THE THIRD ICP TRIENNIAL OF PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO,' through Jan. 17. As forays into the biennial/triennial form go, this effort is above average. The good work outweighs the weak, and everything coalesces into a reverie about the intersection of two constants of everyday life: clothing and camera-produced images. Portraiture, still life and documentary and postmodern setup and appropriation are all advanced here; social and economic realities are illuminated; and all the while, we are forced to examine our personal expectations and associations regarding clothing as the interface between our bodies (and ourselves) and the world. With 34 artists from some 18 countries, the show has a global reach and a refreshing slant: an astounding 70 per cent of the artists are women. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Smith)20091015
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LOOKING IN: ROBERT FRANK'S ''THE AMERICANS,'' ' through Jan. 3. In the mid-1950s the Swiss-born photographer Robert Frank made three long car trips from New York City across the United States, through the Deep South to California, and back again by a northern route, taking thousands of pictures as he went. He needed a year to develop, print and edit them down to the 83 that made up his classic book, ''The Americans,'' which was panned for its pessimism in his day, and sanctified for its political prescience since. The Met show, and the huge book that accompany it, are basically monuments to that monument. If ''The Americans'' looks more formulaic in its sentiments than it did 50 years, that is because it has had so many imitators and the country it captured has changed. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org.20091015
 (Cotter)
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'VERMEER'S MASTERPIECE ''THE MILKMAID,'' ' through Nov. 29. This small contextual show surrounds ''The Milkmaid'' (1657-58) with all five of the Met's Vermeers and a smattering of domestic scenes by other 17th-century masters, among them Pieter de Hooch, Gabriel Metsu and Nicolaes Maes. The 18-inch-high ''Milkmaid'' is one of Vermeer's strangest and best works. In this arresting treatment of a prosaic subject -- a young woman laboring in the kitchen -- Vermeer forsakes his well-known optical sensations for earthier pleasures. And in unprecedented fashion, he endows this domestic worker with traits typically reserved for higher-class women: virtue, diligence and a rich interior life. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20091015
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CINNABAR: THE CHINESE ART OF CARVED LACQUER,' through Feb. 21. The exhibition's approximately 50 carved lacquer dishes, platters, boxes, vases and other domestic objects -- including a spectacular folding screen -- are as engrossing for their formal beauty as for their amazing craftsmanship. The pigment cinnabar gives them a rich, dark red color, and intricate patterns, ornamental animals and pastoral vignettes carved and incised into their lustrous surfaces make every object a pleasure to behold. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20091015
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Nov. 29. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending from one end of the open-air deck to the other. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20091015
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'WILLIAM BLAKE'S WORLD: ''A NEW HEAVEN IS BEGUN,'' ' through Jan. 3. Artist, poet and irritated ecstatic, William Blake listed as his primary residence the Imagination, a combination of creative command post and a psychological refuge where, as he put it, the eternal and the real meet. You'll see a good amount of both in this show, drawn from the Morgan's deep holdings of Blake's hand-printed-and-painted books and from the entire series of 21 watercolor illustrations he made for ''The Book of Job.'' 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org.20091015
 (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091015
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What Is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper's Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke to today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091015
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MONET'S WATER LILIES,' through April 12. Devotees of late Monet can rejoice. The Museum of Modern Art has hung its three ''Water Lilies'' together for the first time since 2001, along with a relatively recent acquisition and two guests. That's six waterlily paintings, all completed in the last dozen years before the artist's death in 1926. In addition, these canvases are isolated from the onward march of Modernism according to MoMA, and their separateness emphasizes their meditative, immersive quality. But it also confirms their radical achievement. While bringing Monet's Impressionism to a grand conclusion, they also open the path to Abstract Expressionism. It can still stop you in your tracks. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091015
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24, 2010. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20091015
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through March 1. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20091015
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: HURVIN ANDERSON: 'PETER'S SERIES, 2007-2009,' through Oct. 25. These deft, photo-based oil paintings focus on an attic barbershop in London that caters to Caribbean immigrants like the artist's father. Seen from an unchanging perspective, this unassuming setting is subjected, from painting to painting, to a formal process of subtraction and addition. Isolated walls approach abstraction or sometimes resemble abstract paintings. Then furniture, mirrors and clients are reintroduced. The thinly painted images suggest a fragile, transient realm -- an immigrant's world, perhaps, or a place, shot through with a gentle melancholy, where we have all been at one point or another. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem , (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Smith)20091015
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'GEORGIA O'KEEFFE: ABSTRACTION,' through Jan. 17. The focus of this surprisingly surprising show is the first two decades of O'Keeffe's long career, beginning in 1915 when she made her first abstract drawings, which were also among the first fully abstract images by any American artist, and continuing into the 1930s, when she was spending increasing amounts of time alone in New Mexico. In between come a body of bold, graphically punchy and sensuous painting that you tend to experience whole and fast, as you do a strong scent or a touch. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20091015
 Galleries: 57th Street
 JEFF WALL, through Oct. 30. A young man polishes his shoes in an unfinished bachelor's apartment. Hoodlums practice knife throwing indoors against a peeling, painted wooden wall. Police officers in bulletproof vests search a cheap-looking modern apartment. These and other large, staged pictures by the brainy, much celebrated Mr. Wall offer narrative intrigue but have a clinical, emotionally distant artificiality. Marian Goodman, 24 West 57th Street , (212) 977-7160, mariangoodman.com. (Johnson)20091015
 Galleries: Chelsea
 JOANNE GREENBAUM: 'HOLLYWOOD SQUARES,' through Oct. 31. Combining aspects of graffiti art, doodling and children's drawings, these intensely colored, uningratiating paintings make the eyes spin. Their jagged pinwheel compositions turn in on themselves, as if one hue were battling another for supremacy, and in the best canvases black wins, adding a weight and density that works well against the thinness of the paint. Less like big, goofy drawings than they once were, all of them push further into the vicinity of painting without succumbing to its usual seductiveness. D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street , (212) 352-9460, damelioterras.com. (Smith)20091015
 TAKASHI MURAKAMI: 'PICTURE OF FATE,' through Oct. 24. The painting -- titled ''Picture of Fate: I Am But a Fisherman Who Angles in the Darkness of His Mind'' -- is another tour-de-force update of traditional Japanese imagery and techniques, centering on the exotic and ferocious karajishi, or ''China-lion,'' who guards the threshold of Japanese Buddhist temples. It sits on a pile of skulls with richly colored interiors, while waterfalls and drips of color descend here and there. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street , (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)20091015
 'NO SHOW,' through Oct. 24. This engaging show of trompe l'oeil sculptures includes Jud Nelson's roll of toilet paper carved from marble; Richard Haden's fire extinguisher made of painted wood; Gavin Turk's plastic-foam coffee cups in painted bronze; Victor Spinski's glazed ceramic paint trays and cans of paint; and, best of all, Susan Collis's deceptively humble objects, like a screw made of white gold sunk halfway into an aqua-colored plastic wall anchor that is actually made of turquoise. Nicholas Robinson, 535 West 20th Street , (212) 560-9075, nrgallery.com. (Johnson)20091015
 ANSELM REYLE: 'MONOCHROME AGE,' through Oct. 24. The happy-shiny-money look of ironic abstraction is encapsulated by sculptures and reliefs that bring to mind Jeff Koons, Olafur Eliasson and Ron Arad. Sleek biomorphic forms and scatterings of junk manifested in extravagantly colored reflective metals dominate, with occasional back-up from LED lights and gleaming makassa veneer bases. You'll have fun in the first three galleries and get a better sense of the artist in the final one, where the scale suddenly shrinks. As if on purpose, a smallish sculpture in electric blue bronze suggests a large pile of what inspired the term ''filthy lucre.'' Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street , (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)20091015
 REBECCA WARREN: 'FEELINGS,' through Oct. 24. A surprise awaits viewers who know this British artist for her lumpy, erotically suggestive clay sculptures of female figures. Along with five examples of that work, this exhibition includes seven abstract sculptures made of rectilinear pieces of dark steel. The play between the feminine and the implicitly masculine is amusing, but it is the raw, comic expressionism of her clay sculptures that is most compelling. Matthew Marks, 522 West 22nd Street , (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Johnson)20091015
 Galleries: Other
 FRANKLIN EVANS: '2008/2009 < 2009/2010,' through Oct. 24. The popular convention of the ephemeral wall-to-wall environment is rendered with masses of hand-painted tape, as well as small, delicate watercolors; current art books; and recent art gallery news releases. The effect is of a giant, walk-in watercolor; of a studio where colorful strips and blots suggest the making of many paintings, now absent; and of a very busy mind obsessed with the tension between analog and digital. It is stronger in the details than the overall. Sue Scott Gallery, 1 Rivington Street, at the Bowery, Lower East Side , (212) 358-8767, suescottgallery.com. (Smith)20091015
 'ICONS OF THE DESERT: EARLY ABORIGINAL PAINTINGS FROM PAPUNYA,' through Dec. 5. With their bold, diagrammatic compositions; finely coordinated colors; and dotted textures, paintings by indigenous Australians appeal to Western eyes trained to respond to abstraction and folk and so-called outsider art. The paintings in this excellent show are mostly from the 1970s, the early years of the modern Aboriginal painting movement. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20091015
 MIKE KELLEY AND MICHAEL SMITH: 'A VOYAGE OF GROWTH AND DISCOVERY,' through Nov. 30. This entertaining and thought-provoking exhibition features a six-channel video following Michael Smith, dressed as Baby Ikki in droopy diapers, bonnet and dark glasses, as he wanders around Burning Man, the weeklong celebration of all things psychedelic in the Nevada desert. With jungle-gym-like structures in the gallery and a towering junk-metal sculpture of Baby Ikki looming over all, the whole project represents Burning Man as a festival of infantilism. SculptureCenter, 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org. (Johnson)20091015
 SARA GREENBERGER RAFFERTY: 'TEARS,' through Oct. 25. Pursuing her interest in popular culture, Ms. Rafferty has carved out some new ground in the crowded turf of appropriated and manipulated photographs. Her technique involves splashing water onto scanned and printed images of well-known comedians and actors -- Goldie Hawn, Vicki Lawrence, Bill Cosby and Madeline Kahn -- until the color runs. The results are mysterious wisps of personality and painterliness that hover on the brink of familiarity while also seeming tinged with violence. Despite their slightness, the best have an unexpected emotional force. Rachel Uffner Gallery, 47 Orchard Street, near Hester Street, Lower East Side , (212) 274-0064, racheluffnergallery.com. (Smith)20091015
 CARAGH THURING: 'ASSEMBLY,' through Nov. 1. In her first New York solo show, this young artist, born in Brussels and based in London, scatters seemingly random shapes and marks across unprimed linen. Each work is kind of a situation, like a sentence parsed, diagramed and awaiting reassembly by an interested reader. This isn't too hard, especially if you keep Manet's ''Luncheon on the Grass'' in mind. Parklike settings emerge, along with reclining or possibly fallen figures. The unhinged look and ambivalence toward painting appeal, as does the use of the tobacco-toned linen as backdrop. Simon Preston, 301 Broome Street, between Eldridge and Forsyth Streets, Lower East Side , (212) 431-1105, simonprestongallery.com. (Smith)20091015
 JACK TWORKOV: 'AGAINST EXTREMES -- FIVE DECADES OF PAINTING,' through Oct. 27. The painter Jack Tworkov (1900-82) made his name at the height of Abstract Expressionism, but he was never really comfortable with the angst-filled, tortured aspects of that movement. A noted intellectual and a sharp-eyed critic, he held his art to high, self-imposed standards of clarity and coherence. And, as this small survey confirms, he did more soul-searching on paper than on canvas. Among the highlights are ''Pink Mississippi'' and ''Watergame,'' late-1950s abstractions that pit vertical against horizontal strokes and roseate pinks against steely blues. UBS Art Gallery, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, at 51st Street, (212) 713-2885, ubs.com. (Rosenberg)20091015
 Out of Town
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'THE ART OF POWER: ROYAL ARMOR AND PORTRAITS FROM IMPERIAL SPAIN,' through Nov. 1. Drawn from the Royal Armory in Madrid, one of the oldest and greatest repositories of armor in the world, this exhibition presents full suits of armor, as well as individual helmets, shields, swords and armor for horses. There are portraits of 16th- and 17th-century Spanish kings in armor, too, and three spectacular tapestries. But it is the sumptuous metalwork, produced not for warfare but for ceremonial occasions, that is the main attraction. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington. , (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)20091015
 Last Chance
 TAUBA AUERBACH: 'HERE AND NOW/AND NOWHERE'; closes on Saturday. The two big dot paintings in this young artist's beautiful exhibition look like giant sheets of crumpled paper; up close they atomize into buzzing fields of black spots. Another series creates the illusion of creased and wrinkled pieces of single-color fabric. The main attraction, however, is an eccentric wooden pipe organ with half a keyboard at either end. At 5 o'clock every evening, two performers play a transporting duet. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, SoHo , (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Johnson)20091015
 BERNADETTE CORPORATION: 'THE COMPLETE POEM'; closes on Saturday. A brainy show from this intrepid collective tries to have its cake and eat it, too, both dallying in and mocking the art market. The plan is to insert pure, bodiless language into the system in the form of a 130-page poem written by the group and displayed in 10-page segments on 13 vitrines under plexiglass. Each vitrine is for sale, and the poem, which is quite good if a bit on the light side, will (they say) not be published. Catch it while you can. The photographs of young models on the wall counter the brains with beauty and represent another kind of product, or a way of pushing it. Greene Naftali, 508 West 26th Street, Chelsea , (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com. (Smith)20091015
 MATTHEW CHAMBERS: 'AN ACTIVITY SO PURE'; closes on Saturday. Definitely in the artist-to-watch category, this young Los Angeleno presents 8-by-4-foot canvases installed cheek to jowl -- an onslaught of 22. Styles shift among blurry facsimiles of Pop, Expressionism, Realism, cartoon and pulp fiction. The constant is the remorseless gusto of the brush work; the effect is both robust and grim, that is, painterly with an overload of Conceptual attitude. Occasional abstractions are made of failed paintings sliced into strips and arranged in vortexes. It will be interesting to see where Mr. Chambers takes painting, or it him. Rental Gallery, 120 East Broadway, at Allen Street, Lower East Side , (212) 608-6002, rental-gallery.com. (Smith)20091015
 STEPHEN DEAN: 'SILENT PICTURES'; closes on Saturday. The artist's affinity for the saturated digital palette and people in motion combine here with aspects of abstract painting, although the technology remains prominent. Tiny monitors display highly distorted, very short loops of restless crowds, a soccer game or rushing pedestrians, and so on. Their radiant, morphing shapes resemble different colors of painting flowing together and apart, but according to the rhythms of human energy and relationship. The resulting beauty is intimate and breathtaking, like that of flowers or jewels. Sara Meltzer Gallery, 525-531 West 26th Street, Chelsea , (212) 727-9330, sarameltzergallery.com. (Smith)20091015
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RON ARAD: NO DISCIPLINE'; closes on Monday. The first large American survey of this Israeli-born, London-based designer proves some of the virtues but many of the vices of its subtitle. Rambunctious, installed to poor advantage and ultimately inconclusive, it demonstrates with only mediocre results Mr. Arad's ambition to extend the design discipline into architecture and sculpture. There are too many toys for rich people here, along with evidence that when Mr. Arad sticks closest to functional design, he also comes closest to art. You have to set limits to transcend them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20091015
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'DOROTHY IANNONE: LIONESS'; closes on Sunday. High priestess, matriarch, sex goddess: the self-taught American artist Dorothy Iannone has been called all these things and more. Now, at 75, Ms. Iannone is having her first solo show at an American museum. It includes just a smattering of early work: four paintings, one sculpture, an artist's book and a series of wooden cutouts. It is complemented, however, by an exhibition at the Anton Kern Gallery in Chelsea that spans the 1960s to the present. Both shows deliver an invigorating shock to an art world lulled, as of late, by the tasteful, conservative and blue-chip. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20091015
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'EMORY DOUGLAS: BLACK PANTHER'; closes on Sunday. ''Artists are here to disturb the peace,'' James Baldwin wrote. He might have added that they create peace in the midst of disturbance too. Emory Douglas, who from the late 1960s to the late 1970s was minister of culture in the Black Panther Party and its official revolutionary artist, did both with his illustrations for the party's newspaper and in the eye-zapping political posters, broadsides and promotional cards seen in this traveling show. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)20091015
 'PHASE TWO'; closes on Saturday. For a glimpse of the future of contemporary art, or at least a slice of that future, spend some time with the second round of exhibitions at X Initiative. Each of the three largest provides immersion in the work of a young, promising European artist working in time-based mediums. Luke Fowler's films about artists and eccentrics push the documentary form into art. Keren Cytter's visceral videos wreak havoc with numerous cinematic genres and a few from television. Tris Vonna-Michell combines slide projections and recordings of his rapid-fire spoken-word performances to trace his experiences in ways both random and crazily obsessive. X-Initiative, 548 West 22nd Street, Chelsea , (917) 697-4886, x-initiative.org. (Smith)20091015

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Distinguishable,'' Richard Haden's fire extinguisher made of painted wood, is part of a show of trompe l'oeil sculptures that includes works by Jud Nelson and Susan Collis at Nicholas Robinson in Chelsea, through Oct. 24. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBINSON GALLERY) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



448 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Europe and South Korea Sign Trade Pact

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
The European Union and South Korea took a major step Thursday toward a free trade agreement aimed at generating billions of euros in new commerce. 
 With talks on global trade deadlocked and concern about protectionism on the rise, analysts said the deal could send a powerful signal to other nations to press ahead with bilateral pacts of their own. 
 After two years of negotiations, an agreement was signed in Brussels by the European trade commissioner, Catherine Ashton, and her South Korean counterpart, Kim Jong-hoon. 
 The pact now needs approval from the European Union's 27 member states, some of which face intense opposition to the deal from sectors like the automotive industry. But Ms. Ashton said she had the backing of all member states to go ahead. 
 Under the agreement, the two sides will remove virtually all tariffs between their economies, as well as many nontariff barriers, over a five-year period.
 The European Commission, the executive arm of the nion, said the trade in goods between Europe and South Korea was worth about 65 billion euros ($97 billion) in 2008, and that the deal was worth 19 billion euros to European exporters alone. The European Union runs a deficit with South Korea in goods trade.
 A free trade agreement between the United States and South Korea, reached in 2007, has yet to be ratified and is stuck in Congress. Some American politicians oppose the deal over concerns it will harm automakers.
 Sigrid de Vries, spokeswoman for the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association, said the deal would lead to ''market distortion and unfair competition.'' The agreement ''goes against the interest of major industries in Europe and their millions of employees,'' she added.
 But the European Commission praised its benefits, saying the agreement addressed a range of nontariff barriers, including regulations and standards, in which European industries have an interest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EURO (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



449 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Profit Edges Higher at McClatchy, but Ad Revenue Continues to Slide

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Cost-cutting and a favorable tax adjustment lifted profits for the newspaper publisher McClatchy Company, even as advertising revenue took a dive that displeased investors Thursday.
 McClatchy, the publisher of The Miami Herald and 29 other dailies, is the first big newspaper company to report earnings for the third quarter. Shares of McClatchy and other publishers leaped in the quarter as investors bet that the worst effects of the recession were over for the newspaper industry. 
 Shares of McClatchy, which is based in Sacramento, Calif., fell 52 cents, or 13 percent, to $3.50 a share.
 McClatchy's quarterly profit did improve. The company said it earned $23.6 million, or 28 cents a share, up from $4.2 million, or 5 cents a share, a year earlier.
 But some of the big profit increase came from an adjustment in McClatchy's tax rate. Excluding one-time gains, McClatchy said it would have earned $11 million, or 13 cents a share. On a comparable basis, the company earned $10.4 million, also 13 cents a share, in the comparable period last year.
 Revenue tumbled 23 percent, to $347 million.
 And in a troubling sign for the newspaper business, McClatchy's advertising declines did not slow much during the quarter.
 After 30 percent declines in the first half of the year, similar to what other publishers reported, McClatchy's ad sales fell 28 percent in the most recent period. Moreover, year-over-year comparisons are getting easier. McClatchy's third-quarter ad revenue had already dropped 19 percent a year ago from 2007 levels.
 ''The advertising declines we've experienced show some signs of slowing, but the ad environment remains weak overall,'' McClatchy's chief executive, Gary Pruitt, said in a statement. He added that this month's numbers showed ''advertising revenue trends similar to the third quarter.''
 On the positive side, online advertising reversed its decline, climbing 3 percent from a year ago.
 McClatchy also managed to whittle its debt by $134.3 million from the beginning of the year. Its borrowings now stand at $1.99 billion.
 The company's lenders require McClatchy to keep its debt load from rising higher than seven times its cash flow over the last 12 months. That ratio stood at 5.7 at the end of September, down from 5.8 at the end of June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (93%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (96%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



450 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Major Manhattan Shows Forge On in Hard Times

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

 BODY:
Management teams at two major antiques fairs in Manhattan this weekend are keeping up brave fronts, describing themselves with phrases like ''cautiously optimistic'' and ''newly energized'' to reporters, while dealing with shifting or shrinking rosters of exhibitors. Some of the material for sale is splashier than usual, to tempt buyers out of their recession jitters.
 The International Fine Art & Antique Dealers Show at the Park Avenue Armory has 65 dealers, four more than last year. The wares come in their standard array, from ancient bronzes to Art Deco armchairs, but a third of the exhibitors are new. The fair has rarely had greater turnover in its 21-year existence, said Anna Haughton, an owner of the show's organizer, Haughton International Fairs.
 Dealers dropping out ''have closed down, or just asked to take a year off,'' she said. The silver lining of the shakeout, she added, is that she has let in dealers off her longstanding waiting list. ''That breathes new life'' into the fair, she said. Prices are steady or rising for ''top-quality things,'' she added. ''Nobody's saying they're bringing much cheaper things, though they may well be.'' 
 Several new entrants are jumpstarting sleepy but venerable markets, like Japanese screens (Erik Thomsen brought a 24-foot-long gilded floral scene, priced at $280,000), or 18th-century stone carvings (Tomasso Brothers has a yard-tall pair of purplish porphyry vases, $750,000).
 ''Frankly, I think now is the time to put yourself forward,'' said Clinton Howell, a dealer in English furniture on East 72nd Street in Manhattan. He is returning to the Haughton fair after a six-year hiatus, with his standout, an 1850s expandable mahogany table, $285,000. In the last year his competition has dwindled: half a dozen British antiques shops, including Hotspur Ltd. and Norman Adams in London, have closed.
 Dealers of Modernist furniture in New York also face less competition this weekend. The Modern Show, which had 90 exhibitors last year, has set up 50 booths on the 11th floor of 7 West 34th Street, with Empire State Building views as a fitting Art Deco backdrop. The ranks of out-of-town furniture sellers have thinned this year. 
 ''Some really couldn't afford to make the trip without being sure what they shipped would sell,'' said Irene Stella, the founder of the show's organizer, Stella Show Management Company.
 Vendors based in Manhattan, though, have managed to haul unwieldy objects to their booths. Mantiques Modern, on West 22nd Street in Chelsea, is selling a blackened steel 1920s dental cabinet ($9,500) and Louis Vuitton 1930s steamer trunks ($4,500 to $8,500). 
 Buyers with a sense of humor are surely out there, said Cory Margolis, an owner of Mantiques. ''We're bringing our usual gutsy range,'' he said, ''from the sublime to the ridiculous.''
 Samurai Ready-to-Wear 
 The wealthier the samurai, the cushier his outfit. Carrying tempered steel swords that easily cut through human bones, the warriors wore silk underwear in floral patterns and stripes of silk lacing between their lacquered armor plates. They waved gilded folding fans to signal one another, and their stirrups and saddles were inlaid with mother-of-pearl.
 But their headgear looked intimidating. On their masks, gray boar bristles simulated mustaches over grimacing mouth holes and jutting chin guards, and their helmets had towering, gilded ornaments shaped like flames, horns or insect wings.
 Mannequins will be wearing hundreds of components of this battle gear in New York, starting this weekend. Christie's and Bonhams are holding previews for auctions on Thursday and next Friday, both titled ''Arts of the Samurai,'' a slight variation on the title of a show that opens on Wednesday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, ''Art of the Samurai: Japanese Arms and Armor, 1156-1868.''
 The museum has borrowed 213 pieces from collections in Japan, and half of the loans have been officially designated ''important cultural property'' or ''national treasures'' by the Japanese government. The Met will rotate displays during the exhibition's run (through Jan. 10), to give objects a break from light exposure, and a fragile 12th-century suit of deerskin armor will be on view only for the show's first two weeks. The ensemble, Japan's only known surviving deerskin armor, ''was handed down in a local chieftain's family for centuries,'' said Morihiro Ogawa, a curator of the show.
 None of the Bonhams or Christie's lots come with such a long, iron-clad provenance, but there are plenty of background legends and even some sword cuts and bullet dents from wartime use. The Christie's catalog says a spiky iron helmet (estimated at $18,000 to $22,000) probably belonged to an eccentric 17th-century samurai who wrote a book mocking the paranoid shogun Tokugawa Iemitsu. A gold-foil scabbard at Bonhams ($35,000 to $45,000) originally contained a sword that Iemitsu gave to a loyal warrior who massacred rebellious Christians.
 Dozens of plain sword blades, displayed without handles or sheaths at the auction houses and the Met, make for less interesting viewing, at least for non-initiates. But Japanese scholars have provided some entertaining authenticity certificates and inscriptions, categorizing the steel strips as ''especially precious'' or ''extremely wondrous.'' 
 The Met catalog, from Yale University Press, even explains the minute differences between metal tempering techniques: Some sword edges are sharpened to resemble ''coarse, recrystallized snow,'' while others ''can be compared to a fine accumulation of powdery snow.''
 Spotlight on Wallpaper
 Gilded mirrors and Victorian needlework have been temporarily stripped off the walls at Mallett, a British antiques gallery at 929 Madison Avenue, near 74th Street, to make room for wallpaper panels from Carolle Thibaut-Pomerantz, a wallpaper dealer in Paris and Manhattan. To promote her new book, ''Wallpaper: A History of Style and Trends'' (Flammarion), she has unrolled French woodblock-printed scenes of Greek gods, French forests, English garden colonnades, Egyptian battlegrounds and Turkish peasants with camels, produced around 1800.
 On view through Oct. 24, the images are up to 25 feet long and cost between $75,000 and $220,000. Some have never been applied to walls. ''Sometimes people bought a decor for the day they were ready to install it, but for whatever reason, that day never came,'' Ms. Thibaut-Pomerantz said. 
 For buyers not ready to commit to pasting up her papers, she has brought framed sections of Art Deco floral wallpaper, a few feet square and priced from $3,000 to $32,000, which can be hung on ordinary picture hooks. The frames have no glass, so raised ink lines are visible around the petals, leaves and trelliswork. Antique wallpapers, Ms. Thibaut-Pomerantz explained, often have traces of stampings from thousands of separate woodblocks.
 ''The meticulous workmanship is mind-boggling,'' she said. ''There's a surface relief, and a finesse to the engraving, and a density of paper that nothing modern can match.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 16th-century Japanese helmet and 19th-century suit of armor for sale at a show of Samurai art at Bonhams. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONHAMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (89%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (79%); RETAILERS (77%); FURNITURE STORES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (60%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (60%); LVMH (BIT) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (60%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



451 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Inched Up in September

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Consumer prices edged higher last month after a summertime spike in gasoline and energy prices leveled off, the government reported on Thursday.
 The report demonstrated that inflation was still a remote concern for the American economy, even as the dollar tumbles against other global currencies and jittery investors clamor to buy oil and gold. The figures backed up the Federal Reserve's view that inflation will remain low as the economy grapples with high unemployment and low consumer demand. 
 The Labor Department's consumer price index rose 0.2 percent in September, its smallest increase since July, when prices were flat. Consumers paid less for food, but slightly more for energy, gasoline and clothing.
 New-car prices bounced back from declines a month earlier, when they fell amid a flurry of discounted buying as car buyers flocked to dealerships to take advantage of the government's ''cash for clunkers'' rebate program. Prices for new automobiles rose 0.4 percent, and used-car prices climbed for a second month.
 The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, also rose 0.2 percent. 
 Over all, prices in September were 1.3 percent lower than a year earlier, when gasoline and oil prices plummeted during the financial crisis, dragging down the costs of food, transportation and other costs of living.
 Housing costs, which make up a substantial portion of the overall consumer price index, fell 0.3 percent in September, reflecting rising residential vacancies and cheaper hotel rates across the country.
 The changes in consumer prices lined up with economists' expectations, and reflected the view of Fed bankers, who believe that excess slack in the economy and its long path toward recovery will keep inflation low. 
 Minutes from the Fed's latest meeting in September highlighted that view: ''Most participants anticipated that slack in both labor and product markets would be substantial over the next few years, leading to subdued and potentially declining wage and price inflation.''
 In another report on Friday, the Labor Department said that first-time claims for jobless benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 514,000, from an upwardly revised 524,000 the previous week. The fifth decline in six weeks was below forecasts of 525,000, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The four-week average, which smoothes fluctuations, fell for a sixth week to 531,500.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kolleen Irwin at a Target store Thursday in Philadelphia. Inflation was mild last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COST OF LIVING (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (74%); SALES REBATES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



452 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Even as Fares Creep Up, Airlines Tack On Fees, Too

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Forget fare wars, since ticket prices are rising. 
 Now there are fee wars.
 And travelers are losing out in this battle, as airlines introduce new surcharges, on top of the checked-bag fees and fuel surcharges that became the norm in the last year. 
 United, American, Delta, Continental and US Airways recently introduced $10 surcharges on flights during the most popular travel days around Thanksgiving and New Year's, as well as travel next year during Easter and spring breaks.
 Last summer, several airlines added a surcharge of $5 a bag for travelers checking them at the airport, instead of prepaying online. United passengers can also pay a $249 annual fee to check up to two bags on each flight, and avoid paying the usual fees.
 British Airways is now charging passengers up to $90 to select seats more than 24 hours before their flight. The cost of sending a child alone on a flight costs more, too, as some airlines have bumped up unaccompanied minor fees to as much as $100 each way. 
 For travelers, all the fees make it tougher to figure out the real cost of a trip, and even raise the prospect, under the right (or wrong) circumstances, of paying more in fees than the base fare.
 For the loss-plagued airline industry, the fees are an easy way to raise revenue without appearing to raise ticket prices.
 Glen W. Hauenstein, executive vice president for network planning and revenue management at Delta Air Lines, said that fare wars in the past forced airlines to charge far too little for tickets, especially compared with what travelers spend on hotel rooms, meals and taxis once they get to their destination.
 ''Fees have become an easy way for us to try and fix the fares,'' he said.
 But Richard Branson, the chairman of Virgin Atlantic, warned that airlines risked alienating travelers by adding so many charges on top of ticket prices.
 ''The extra fees are not a good idea,'' Mr. Branson said in an e-mail message. 
 He said he favored stating the total cost of travel upfront in the air fare, and urged regulators to enforce the idea. The Transportation Department says it has ''no authority to regulate the prices that airlines charge for air transportation services,'' including these various fees, although it requires airlines to clearly state its baggage charges on Web sites and in ads.
 The practice has created two new classes of travelers -- those who pay fees, and those who do not. The latter group includes elite frequent fliers, who are often exempt from the fees, along with travelers in first class.
 That leaves occasional travelers like families taking vacations or flying home during the holidays bearing the greatest burden. 
 The fees are helping the airlines, but only a bit, as the recession is cutting deeply into consumers' and businesses' trips.
 Operating revenue for the major United States carriers dropped 20 percent in the first half of 2009, compared with 2008, with the airlines taking in about $18 billion less this year. Over that same period, airlines collected $3.8 billion in fees.
 Rick Seaney, the chief executive of FareCompare.com, an airfare shopping site, said he expected fee wars to continue.
 ''There is a breaking point,'' he said. ''But I'm not positive the airlines have reached it yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EASTER SEASON (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); THANKSGIVING (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



453 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: October Exodus

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
If you drive from Lander to Jackson, you get the full brunt of Wyoming on the move. The town of Farson -- about halfway -- is a good place to take it all in. It used to be little more than a dusty crossroads. Now it's a staging and storage depot for equipment used in the Jonah Field, a gas field that has become the economic heart of western Wyoming over the last decade. The highway ripples with pickups with jib cranes for lifting pipe, bigger trucks towing crane-fitted pickups, the biggest trucks hauling machinery and rigging. 
 It's October, so everyone is on the move. Ranchers on horses are moving cattle down off their leases well upslope, and a statewide convoy of cattle trucks is moving to meet them at the corrals and chutes. The cattle trucks move in a hailstorm of grit. With the wind blowing stiff out of the west and snow kicking up from the tires of the trucks coming at me, I can't tell which ones are loaded and which ones are empty. 
 As the cattle move down from the high country, the elk hunters move up. Most of the pickups without jib cranes have four-wheelers in the back -- all-terrain vehicles with scabbards on the sides. Horse trailers stand parked at nearly every access point along the road. Three or more trailers means elk hunters. One or two most likely means ranchers on horseback gathering cattle. Every trailered horse I pass on the highway is already saddled, ready to step down and ride out. 
 An early snow plummets from the clouds. It isn't cold enough for drifts, but it does bring down limbs on the cottonwoods, which still have their leaves. It feels as though there's an underlying code, a semaphore of some sort, in the vehicles that pass me -- schoolbus, gas-hand, rancher, hunter, four-door Buick -- but the code is always shifting, mile after mile. I see a band of antelope standing in a hollow under the wind. Just up the road, three riders make their way back to the horse trailer and home. It's a good direction to be going.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); HORSES (74%); SPORT HUNTING (71%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (65%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



454 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LAS GAVIOTAS JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: An Isolated Village Finds The Energy to Keep Going

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Seth Biderman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LAS GAVIOTAS, Colombia 

 BODY:
In the 1960s, an aristocratic Colombian development specialist named Paolo Lugari took a road trip across these nearly uninhabited eastern plains, a region so remote and poor in soil quality that not even Colombia's historic upheavals of violence had taken root here at the time. 
 Stopping to rest in this vast expanse, written off by agronomists as the equivalent of a tropical desert, Mr. Lugari decided it was the perfect place to experiment with the future of civilization. He founded a village unlike any other in this war-weary country. 
 ''The only deserts that exist in this world are deserts of the imagination,'' said Mr. Lugari, 64, on a visit this month to the community he named after the river gulls, or gaviotas, he saw flying overhead on that trip more than 40 years ago. 
 These days, visitors travel by propeller plane over the bleak savanna to get here, or by bus past the occasional guerrilla or paramilitary checkpoint. The visitors rarely come. But when they do, they get a glimpse into a four-decade experiment to alter civilization's dependence on finite fossil fuels and industrial agriculture. 
 Its 200 residents have no guns, no police force, no cars, no mayor, no church, no priest, no cellphones, no television, no Internet. No one who lives in Gaviotas has a job title. 
 But Gaviotas does have an array of innovations intended to make human life feasible in one of the most challenging ecosystems, from small inventions like a solar kettle for sterilizing water to large ones like a 19,800-acre reforestation project whose tropical pines produce resin for biofuel and a canopy under which native plant species flourish. 
 Las Gaviotas, Mr. Lugari explained, began with one idea: Instead of choosing an easy, fertile place to test energy self-sufficiency and creativity in agriculture, why not choose one of the hardest? The concept, devised before the 1970s oil crisis and well before this decade's fears of depleting oil supplies, guided the community's evolution. 
 While Las Gaviotas has largely faded from public view within Colombia, it arouses interest in energy-efficiency circles in rich countries. Luminaries in the field occasionally visit, like Amory Lovins of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a longtime champion of energy efficiency in the United States, who came here this year. 
 The place turned out to be more forbidding than Mr. Lugari imagined. The country's long, mutating war migrated to the savannas around Gaviotas in eastern Colombia, a once tranquil region equivalent to three-fifths of the country but with less than 10 percent of its population. Drug traffickers and private armies arrived years ago, blazing trails to move cocaine into Venezuela and run guns back into Colombia. 
 Like an oasis amid this madness, Gaviotas drew peasants from the llanos, or plains, who moved here to earn about $500 a month, about double the wage for rural workers elsewhere in Colombia. Some once nomadic Guahibo Indians joined them. Scientists, while largely avoiding Las Gaviotas now because of the surrounding violence, helped design the village's cluster of homes, laboratories and factories, which still lie 16 hours by jeep from Bogota, the capital. 
 ''We try to lead a quiet life, depending on nothing but our own labor and ingenuity,'' said Teresa Valencia, 48, a teacher who moved here three decades ago.
 She said residents had to deal with guerrillas from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the FARC, and gunmen loyal to a paramilitary warlord, Pedro Oliverio Guerrero, who reigns over the llanos with the nom de guerre Cuchillo (Knife). 
 ''We don't take part in this war, and we ask those who enter our village to do so without their rifles,'' Ms. Valencia said. ''So far, for us at least, this has worked.'' 
 It is impossible to know precisely how well this strategy has worked from a one-day visit here this month with Mr. Lugari, who lives in Bogota. He guided foreign journalists and an American engineer who hopes to create his own version of Gaviotas in New Mexico, on the condition that they not spend the night, because of kidnapping fears. 
 Visitors who arrive at dawn on a Cessna plane leave before dusk. They see inventions like a water pump powered by a children's seesaw, a solar kitchen and the forest of tropical pine trees that stands in contrast to the otherwise barren plains. 
 More than two decades after the pines were planted, with the help of a mycorrhiza fungus introduced to help digest the poor soils, jacaranda, ferns and laurels have flourished under their cover in what some agronomists call one of the developing world's most astonishing reforestation projects. 
 ''A place like Gaviotas bears witness to our ability to get it right, even under seemingly insurmountable circumstances,'' the American journalist Alan Weisman wrote in a 1998 book about Gaviotas. 
 The village uses resin from the pines for biofuel in its tractors and motorbikes, and processes other resin for sale to use in products like varnishes and linseed oil. 
 Yet Las Gaviotas is not immune to the global economy. China recently flooded Colombia with cheap resin imports, forcing Las Gaviotas to slash production costs on the products it sells by 40 percent. 
 Mr. Lugari, whose father was a scholar from Rome and married into a Colombian political dynasty, shuns computers and travels with a heavy suitcase of books. On his one-day trip here, the suitcase carried Fritjof Capra's ''The Science of Leonardo.'' 
 While Las Gaviotas spawns fascination abroad, some in Colombia are less sanguine about the village created by Mr. Lugari. 
 Jorge Zapp, a Bogota engineer and early collaborator here, recognized the importance of Mr. Lugari's ideas and the force of his personality in making them reality. ''But like all imperial regimes, from Julius Caesar to Castro, Gaviotas centers on one person,'' he said. ''After some years, Paolo's shadow grew too big.'' 
 As if to underscore the point, residents of Gaviotas respectfully call Mr. Lugari ''Doctor.''
 Others, like Mauricio Gnecco, a renewable energy expert at Los Llanos University in Villavicencio, have compared Gaviotas to a submarine, largely isolating itself from surrounding communities as it seeks lasting change within its own boundaries. 
 A mural in the village's common room depicts a community full of curious children at play amid the inventions, but only a dozen children attend the one-room school, raising questions about the community's future. 
 Mr. Lugari smiles at such doubts, shifting the conversation to new inventions, like a remote-controlled zeppelin to detect forest-threatening fires on the savanna. 
 One Gaviotera, as those born in this village are known, explained her theory. 
 ''We have survived,'' said the resident, Andrea Beltran, 25. 
 ''Maybe, at this time and place in Colombia,'' she continued, ''that is enough.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Farmers in Las Gaviotas, a Colombian village founded in the arid eastern plains 40 years ago, use a special tool, above, to plant pines that produce resin for biofuel. The village uses the biofuel in its tractors and processes other resin, below, for market sale.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS VILLALON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Las Gaviotas is about 16 hours by jeep from Bogota. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); AGRONOMY (76%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (74%); FARM LABOR (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); BIOMASS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); REFORESTATION (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); BIOFUELS (66%); COCAINE (66%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%) COLOMBIA (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



455 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: 10,000: Then and Now

 BODY:
Dow 10,000 brings back glowing memories of good times -- and not just for the people in pinstripes walking around Wall Street with ''Dow 10,000'' baseball caps. When the Dow Jones industrial average first closed above 10,000 on March 29, 1999, the economy was in its eighth year of uninterrupted growth. The jobless rate was so low -- 4.2 percent -- that economists called it ''full employment.'' 
 The Dow passed the milestone again this week. It was the 25th time since that day a decade ago. As far as we can tell Wall Street is the only place celebrating. 
 The chasm between the Dow's stellar performance and the dismal state of the American economy is of historic proportions. The unemployment rate is now at 9.8 percent. Employment as a share of the population is at its lowest level since January 1984. State governments are teetering near bankruptcy. Solvent businesses are seeing their credit lines cut or canceled. Consumer and mortgage lending are both down, while foreclosure filings rose to a record in the third quarter. 
 And more than a year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers sent the financial system and the economy into a tailspin, the Obama administration and Congress have yet to make the promised financial reforms that are essential to ensure that it all doesn't happen again. 
 While the House Financial Services Committee passed a bill on Thursday to regulate trading in derivates -- the opaque and complex financial instruments that played a pivotal role in the crisis -- the financial industry has managed to carve out far too many exemptions. Under pressure from banks, businesses and their high-priced lobbyists, the House committee also approved a bill that would seriously weaken the oversight powers of a proposed new consumer financial protection agency.
 So why is the Dow doing so well while the rest of the country is struggling? 
 The stock market usually recovers before the economy does, as managers wring profits from their companies by cutting costs even before sales recover. 
 The fiscal stimulus headed off an even worse disaster, and investors -- who have no place else to put their money with interest rates so low -- are elated that things weren't as bad as they had feared. Not only are banks still around, many have posted stellar profits. 
 In six of the eight months since March, which is when the Dow started rising, the best-performing stock in the index has been a bank. Many of these banks are doing so well by trading the same sort of financial products that originally drove the system to ruin.
 JPMorgan Chase's otherworldly second-quarter profits, which sent the Dow vaulting over 10,000 on Wednesday, came mostly from investment banking, notably trading in bonds and other fixed-income securities. At the same time, the bank has curtailed consumer and business lending. 
 Every week that banks refrain from lending -- trading their way to a profit while they clean out bad loans from their portfolios -- is a lost week to the recovery.
 In June, Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that the Fed's objective in mobilizing hundreds of billions of dollars to stabilize the financial sector wasn't saving banks: ''We care about Wall Street for one reason and one reason only -- because what happens on Wall Street matters to Main Street.'' We can say with no hesitation that there are no Champagne corks being popped on Main Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); APPROVALS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); BOND MARKETS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



456 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: A.M.D. Narrows Quarterly Loss as Revenue Declines 22%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
The chip maker Advanced Micro Devices said Thursday that it lost money in the third quarter but that stronger-than-expected sales were evidence that consumer spending was feeding a turnaround in the PC market. 
 A.M.D. posted a loss of $128 million, or 18 cents a share, narrower than its year-earlier loss of $134 million, or 22 cents.
 However, the group that makes computer microprocessors reported $76 million in operating income -- about half the amount it earned a year ago, but up from a loss of $72 million last quarter.
 A.M.D.'s revenue fell 22 percent to $1.4 billion. Analysts expected a 30 percent decline, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The company, which is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., sells about 20 percent of the world's computer microprocessors, which are the brains inside PCs. Although A.M.D. was hurt by weak computer sales in the first half of the year, it said shipments rose from the previous quarter because of strong demand for processors used in laptop computers. That was in line with what PC industry researchers reported this week.
 The recession has squelched consumer demand for high-end PCs, but inexpensive laptops and tiny netbooks continued to sell in the third quarter. That pushed PC shipments into positive territory for the first time this year, IDC and Gartner said. 
 Businesses, however, are not expected to replace old computers until sometime next year.
 It was not possible to tell from A.M.D.'s report whether PC makers were stocking up on chips to replenish supplies or whether they expected a boom in sales through the holiday season.
 A.M.D.'s larger competitor, Intel, said this week that the year would end with growth in PC sales. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Advanced Micro Devices said strong demand for laptop computer chips increased its shipments from the previous quarter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (94%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%)

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



457 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Job Program Found to Miss Many States That Need It Most

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and RON NIXON

 BODY:
Businesses with federal stimulus contracts have created few jobs in states with the worst unemployment rates, according to data released Thursday by the federal government.
 The new jobs reported Thursday come from a small slice of a sliver of the $787 billion stimulus program: the roughly $16 billion worth of stimulus contracts that were awarded directly by federal agencies, of which about $2.2 billion has been spent so far. But the preliminary data represented the first time that the federal government has reported actual job figures, and not just job estimates, and they provided the most complete snapshot yet of how one component of the sprawling program -- direct federal contracts -- was shaping up.
 One thing was clear: while the federal contracts have created or saved 30,383 jobs, they were not directed to states with the highest jobless rates. Businesses in Michigan, whose 15.2 percent unemployment rate in August was the highest in the nation, reported creating or saving about 400 jobs. Businesses in Nevada, which had the next highest unemployment rate, reported 159. And businesses in Rhode Island, which had the third-highest unemployment rate, 12.8 percent, reported the fewest jobs: just six. 
 More jobs, by contrast, were reported in some of the states with lowest unemployment rates. Businesses in North Dakota, whose 4.3 percent unemployment rate was the lowest in the nation, reported creating or saving 219. The most jobs were reported in Colorado, whose 7.3 percent unemployment rate was below the national average that reached 9.8 percent last month, and where businesses reported creating or saving 4,695 jobs.
 In many cases federal agencies could not steer their contracts to high-unemployment areas: the stimulus act gave the agencies money for existing federal programs and priorities. So the roughly $6 billion that the Department of Energy was given to clean up nuclear sites, for example, which was the biggest source of federal contracts, must be spent where the nuclear waste is. 
 The data yielded some interesting political tidbits. While no Republicans in the House voted for the stimulus bill, the five Congressional districts that appeared to be getting the most money in federal stimulus contracts so far are all represented by Republicans. And though Democrats control the House, it appeared that more money was being spent for work in districts held by Republicans.
 The new jobs figures by themselves did not shed much light on the question of how well the stimulus program was accomplishing President Obama's goal of saving or creating 3.5 million jobs over two years. The administration estimates that the program has already created or saved one million jobs -- a figure that includes jobs from money that went through states, which will not be reported until the end of the month; layoffs that were averted when the stimulus gave fiscal relief to states; and jobs that were created or saved when people spent their tax cuts or other aid. But with the unemployment rate at 9.8 percent, Republicans are asserting that the program is failing to create enough jobs.
 The data posted Thursday on the stimulus Web site, recovery.gov, was preliminary; recipients can still change errors, and government officials said that based on past experience there were likely to be many. But the Web site is part of a pledge by the Obama administration and Congress to make the stimulus spending transparent. It has a map allowing people to see how many contracts were awarded in their states, their Congressional districts, or even in their ZIP codes, and how many jobs the recipients of those contracts are claiming. 
 White House officials were sensitive to the gulf between the 30,383 jobs in the report and the goal of creating or saving 3.5 million jobs. Jared Bernstein, the chief economist for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who oversees the stimulus, issued a statement saying that the jobs figure exceeded their expectations but cautioning that ''it is too soon to draw any global conclusions from this partial and preliminary data.''

GRAPHIC: MAPS/CHARTS: Jobs From Federal Stimulus Contracts: Of the 30,383 jobs created by businesses that received stimulus contracts directly from the federal government so far, a majority have been in states with unemployment rates that were below the national average of 9.7 percent in August.
Unemployment rate below the national average: Nearly 4,700 jobs, the most of any state, were created in Colorado, which has an unemployment rate of 7.3 percent.
Unemployment rate above the national average: Nearly 400 jobs, or just about 1 percent of jobs created, were in Michigan, which has the nation's highest unemployment rate, 15.2 percent.(Sources: recovery.org
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (67%); NUCLEAR WASTE (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



458 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Weak Dollar? Not So Much In China

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
There is renewed talk about the weak dollar. But don't believe it.
 Where it really counts, the dollar is not moving at all.
 In February, the dollar hit a high against most currencies amid fears of worldwide recession and a desire for the safety of American investments. It was then worth 80 euro cents, and 6.82 Chinese renminbi.
 This week, as the dollar neared 67 euro cents, it was still worth 6.82 renminbi. 
 If you are good in arithmetic, you will immediately realize that the euro has been rising against the Chinese currency. And so has the Japanese yen, the British pound and most every other currency you have heard of.
 The strongest and most resilient economy in the worldwide recession has one of the weakest currencies. 
 In a normal world, that would be a puzzler. As it is, it is simply a problem that governments prefer to ignore.
 To be sure, there are some currencies that have been significantly weaker than the Chinese renminbi since February. Searching Bloomberg's database, I found seven: the Argentine peso, the Icelandic krona, the Costa Rican colon, the Pakistani rupee, the Nigerian naira, the Vietnamese dong and the Iranian rial.
 That is not a list of countries whose economies anyone would be eager to emulate.
 The reason for this is simple, and obvious. China pegs its currency to the United States dollar.
 You may remember that peg was very controversial a few years ago. After much griping from the United States and Europe, in 2005 China decided to allow its currency to gradually appreciate against the dollar. But that policy was reversed in the summer of 2008, and since then the Chinese currency has been flat against the dollar.
 China talked at the time of using a basket of currencies, rather than the dollar, and letting its currency appreciate against the basket. But the result this year has made it clear that there is no basket, unless perhaps it is made up of the naira, the dong and the rial.
 There has been some carping about China's foreign currency policy in Europe, with Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, talking about the need for some currencies in emerging markets to appreciate.
 But most Western officials would rather talk about something else.
 In a statement earlier this month, finance ministers from the Group of 7 did have something to say about China: ''We welcome China's continued commitment to a more flexible exchange rate, which should lead to continued appreciation of the renminbi in effective terms and help promote more balanced growth in China and in the world economy.''
 That statement came about 15 months after China halted ''the continued appreciation of the renminbi,'' a fact the ministers chose not to mention.
 Currency diplomacy has never been an area where frank speaking was deemed admirable. Back in the days of fixed exchange rates, when countries were sometimes forced by crises to make abrupt changes, there was even a saying: ''He lied like a finance minister on the eve of devaluation.''
 This year, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner was widely viewed as having committed a diplomatic faux pas during his confirmation process when he said President Obama believed China was manipulating its currency. The Treasury has since managed to avoid concluding that was happening.
 For its part, China has been critical of the United States for its fiscal and trade imbalances, without mentioning that those imbalances have been exacerbated by China's own policies.
 ''To rant and rave about the unsustainability of our fiscal policy when they have their own unsustainable monetary policy is a classic case of the pot calling the kettle black,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. 
 ''I still think,'' he added, ''that the single most destabilizing decision of the last 10 years was the Chinese peg.''
 That peg forced China to take in huge quantities of dollars and then invest them in dollar-denominated securities, principally Treasuries. That in turn helped to hold down American interest rates and stimulate the housing boom that has since collapsed.
 These days it seems to be in the short-term interests of both countries for China to pursue its current policy. The Americans desperately want someone to buy all the Treasuries that are being issued to finance the stimulus program and bank bailouts, and China wants to do whatever it can to stimulate its own economy. 
 As David Barboza reported in The New York Times this week, some Chinese exporters have been reducing pay to hold down prices and continue making sales to the United States. A stronger currency would make such sales even more difficult to make.
 Such considerations have led some to argue that China's peg is a stabilizing force in the world economy. But that makes no sense, at least in the long run. ''Something that is inherently unsustainable can't be a force for stability,'' said Jon Faust, an economic professor at Johns Hopkins University.
 It is hard to see how China will do well with all those low-yielding Treasury investments, simply because it is difficult to imagine that, someday, the renminbi will not rise against the dollar. Unless, that is, China's own monetary policies unleash a wave of inflation in that country that reduces the international value of the currency.
 But while China pursues its peg, the world's largest exporter will keep exporting and taking in cash rather than imports. The values of the major international currencies will fluctuate against each other, but the inherently stabilizing impact of changing currency values will be limited.
 One lesson of the credit boom in the United States was that things that are unsustainable will eventually stop, perhaps abruptly and in highly disruptive ways. The same may yet be said of China's peg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



459 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Six Charged In Beatings Of Salesmen

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
Two young people working as itinerant magazine salesmen were beaten with baseball bats and golf clubs on Monday night when they told their bosses they wanted to quit, the police in Lakewood Wash., said, reviving questions about the magazine sales industry's practices. 
 The victims remain hospitalized, and six men were charged in the attack and are in jail, the authorities said.
 In the wake of the incident, the state attorney general's office said Thursday that it was considering civil penalties against the magazine sales company, Fresh Start Opportunities.
 ''There have been repeated complaints about this company,'' said Kristin Alexander, a spokeswoman for the state consumer protection division. ''And we intend to do something about it.''
 Ms. Alexander said her office had recently issued two warnings about the company, which has said it is a charity working to help at-risk youth get work experience, even though the company is not registered as a charity. 
 Consumers have also reported never receiving the magazines that Fresh Start Opportunities sold them, and last October a member of one of the crews was charged in a robbery and assault on a customer, Ms. Alexander said.
 Magazine sales companies recruit young people to travel the country living in motels and selling subscriptions, often with a pitch tied to a charitable cause. But in 2007, an article in The New York Times reported that many sellers find that their wages are withheld by the company once they begin traveling. 
 Many sellers also faced physical threats or violence if they asked to leave or were abandoned penniless and hundreds of miles from home. 
 Prosecution has been difficult because the crews are typically categorized as ''independent contractors,'' which insulates the companies from regulation, taxes and liability, and exempts them from most federal and state minimum wage and overtime requirements.
 A request for comment from National Field Selling Association, which represents many of the magazine sellers got no response. The phone number for Fresh Start Opportunities has been disconnected.
 ''The economy is bad, so more kids are desperate for work and are joining crews,'' said Earlene Williams, the director of Parent Watch, an industry watchdog group. 
 Ms. Williams said she received about 10 emergency calls a day from crewmembers, nearly double what it was a year or so ago. 
 ''But no one is buying subscriptions either, so many of these kids are being moved several states from where they live and then abandoned,'' she said. 
 In March, a Wisconsin law made it more difficult to declare salespeople independent contractors, rather than employees protected by federal labor laws.
 Ms. Williams said she was pushing federal legislators to pass a similar measure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CALL CENTERS (75%); CHARITIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); OVERTIME (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



460 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; INDICATORS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Pay the Price

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
Bay Area commuters can expect an increase of at least $1 in the cost of crossing all seven local toll bridges beginning July 1, transportation officials say.
 The Bay Area Toll Authority, which manages the bridges, is expected to make a decision in January on how to close a projected annual budget gap of $140 million. Every option before the authority raises tolls for passenger cars by $1, to $5. 
 In addition, members of the agency's staff say they are leaning toward a first-time charge of $3 for car pools.
 And if you use the Bay Bridge, brace yourself for the possibility of a $6 rush-hour toll.
 Bay Area residents are joining in a countrywide scramble to refinance or take out new mortgages, local bankers say, as interest rates continue their enticing downward slide. As rates on 30-year fixed mortgages dropped below 5 percent, refinancing applications have flooded in, said Brad Blackwell, a Danville-based sales manager for Wells Fargo.
 ''We've seen as much volume in the last three weeks as we've ever had,'' Mr. Blackwell said. In Antioch and Fairfield, sharp plunges in home values have pre-empted refinancings and there has been a surge in home sales, he added.
 Most owners choosing to sell are still finding prices depressed. Figures released Thursday by DQ News showed the median price of a home sold in Solano County was 24.5 percent lower last month than in September 2008. In Napa County, the drop was 18 percent; in Contra Costa County, 12.7 percent; in Santa Clara County, 11 percent. San Francisco home values, down 3.7 percent, fell the least. 
 As Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a bill on Sunday requiring utilities to buy back renewable energy from private producers at above-market prices, environmental groups and renewable-energy companies prepared for the fight over where the new price will be set.
 The more utilities pay for the energy, the more likely there will be a surge in solar-panel installations, though bills might rise, too. Currently, utilities pay roughly 12 cents per kilowatt-hour, and solar advocates want the Public Utilities Commission to make it 20 cents for facilities generating three megawatts or less. 
 That could increase annual solar-energy production to 750 megawatts, up from today's 14 megawatts, said Bernadette del Chiaro, a lobbyist with Environment California. 
 Cindy Pollard, a PG&E spokeswoman, said the utility preferred a price set by auction. PG&E will also argue that its purchase costs should not exceed a predetermined total.
 GERRY SHIH 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: POWER
HOUSING
 TOLLS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (88%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (86%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (86%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (74%); UTILITY RATES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); LEGISLATION (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); PG&E CORP (82%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); PCG (SWX) (82%); PCG (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (82%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (82%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



461 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; BARBARY COAST; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: The 2-Percent Solution Is One Size That Does Not Fit All

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
The phones wouldn't stop ringing at the office of San Francisco's assessor-recorder. A besieged clerk repeated the same words over and over: ''It's too late to appeal.''
 Property tax bills arrived in San Francisco last week. Despite the recession and plummeting home prices, homeowners are learning that their property values are up, along with their taxes. 
Call it the 2-percent solution. Assessors all over California have been addicted to it since 1978 when Proposition 13 capped assessment increases. The most any property value could rise, officially, was 2 percent a year. 
 Since then, nearly every property assessment automatically goes up 2 percent annually, even if property values are down.
 So when Jon Stuber opened a letter in July saying the value of his home had increased, his first reaction was, ''No, it didn't!'' 
 Two years ago, Mr. Stuber left a rundown rental, took his life savings and bought a few-frills condo at 15th and Mission. It is rare to be a first-time homeowner in one of the world's most expensive cities. Mr. Stuber, originally from modest circumstances in rural Maine, lives a frugal, Hulu-instead-of-cable lifestyle.
 We have been friends since he moved here a dozen years ago, and I watched him go from slinging hash in a restaurant to managing projects for a biotech firm. He has done hard labor for everything he owns. I was proud of him the day he closed on that condo.
 Mr. Stuber bought it in 2007 for $610,000. No one thinks it is worth that much in 2009, but the city sent him an assessment of $634,642. 
 ''I'm going to fight,'' he vowed. ''I pretty much found out my property is about $100,000 less.'' 
 Mr. Stuber is not alone. They are still processing the maelstrom of mail at City Hall, but this could be a record year of about 6,500 property assessment appeals, on par with the recession of 1993. Inspired by my friend's outrage, I studied my own assessment and also filed an appeal.
 Homeowners are armed with statistics from Web sites like Zillow.com that show home sale prices down an average of 21 percent in San Francisco from 2008 to 2009. They want more than just a waiver of the 2 percent. If they prevail, it will cost the county more, on some properties, than if there had been no increase.
 ''We try to be fair,'' said Phil Ting, San Francisco's assessor-recorder.
 Mr. Ting did decrease the assessments on about 5 percent of the properties in San Francisco -- 9,997 parcels. But, he said, ''everybody who didn't get a decrease went up 2 percent.''
 Not all assessors take the same approach -- though, in fairness, property values elsewhere in the region have taken more of a hit than those in the city.
 For instance, Santa Clara County's tax assessor, Larry Stone, reduced the assessments of nearly one in four homes. ''If I know someone is over-assessed, why would I look the other way?'' Mr. Stone said. 
 Reductions help those who get them, but an analysis of home sales data for the 2009 tax year shows a price drop in every single San Francisco neighborhood. This explains why people are livid. Up? Is this a joke?
 It is certainly not funny if you try to appeal. To a novice, the paperwork reads like Aramaic translated into gibberish. Then comes the wait. It is expected to take more than a year to process the appeals, and homeowners must pay the contested taxes up front.
 Adding to the frustration is that it is already too late to object in many counties. There were warnings, but the problem did not hit home for many people until tax bills arrived -- hence the avalanche of incredulous calls to City Hall.
 Longtime homeowners are protected from this mess, since Proposition 13 guarantees that their properties are assessed for less than what they are actually worth. But the value of homes bought in San Francisco since 2004, and as far back as 2000 in Santa Clara County, is probably down.
 For those homeowners, how can assessors justify any rise?
 ''You're not required to do a 2 percent bump, right?'' I asked Mr. Ting.
 He stared at me for an uncomfortable moment, like I was blaming him for the anger homeowners feel. Mr. Ting then explained how difficult it was to determine accurate values during this decline, but he said taxpayers might get relief -- next year. 
 ''There's talk that there may be no 2 percent across the board,'' he said.
 No more 2 percent solution for anyone. What a concept. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Stuber is fighting the assessment on the condominium he bought in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); TAX ASSESSORS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); APPEALS (72%); CITY LIFE (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (51%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (51%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



462 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: New Oakland Police Chief Inherits a Force, and a City, in Turmoil

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Anthony W. Batts was enjoying a successful run as the head of the Long Beach police when a headhunter called last winter and asked if the chief's job in Oakland had any appeal. Mr. Batts said no.
 Then, he said, came March 21, when a recently released parolee, Lovelle Mixon, shot and killed four Oakland police officers and cemented the city's reputation as the violent crime capital of the Bay Area.
Sitting at the officers' funeral, Mr. Batts said, he changed his mind. ''I decided that I'd like to help,'' he said.
 On Monday morning, Mr. Batts will start one of the toughest jobs in American law enforcement, taking over a department demoralized by its losses and distrusted by many it is charged to protect. 
 While his task is straightforward -- get his officers to believe in him and themselves and get his community to do the same -- the problems are complex: a city already dealing with underperforming schools, an entrenched crack cocaine trade, deadly gangs and a 17 percent unemployment rate. Never mind the surfeit of parolees and probationers who are often entangled in violent crimes.
 There are fewer than 800 officers in this city of 404,000. Long Beach, a city of 465,000, has more than 1,000. In Oakland, the force operates under a cloud. The behavior of a group of rogue officers a decade ago led to years of federal oversight, and the city continues to pay millions each year to settle police-related lawsuits. Other Bay Area cities have their own crime dramas -- a new chief in San Francisco, charges of racial profiling by the police in San Jose, the Jaycee Dugard case in Antioch -- but Oakland's ocean of problems seems wider and deeper. And Oakland officials say it is exactly Mr. Batts's record of managing several problems at once that appealed to them. 
 ''I wanted a police chief that was committed to reform, committed to community policing, and one that recognized that public safety is a multidimensional problem,'' Mayor Ron Dellums said. ''We are not going to arrest our way out of this.''
 Mr. Batts's crime-fighting record is impressive. In seven years as the chief in Long Beach, he helped drive down the violent crime rate to its lowest level in nearly 40 years. 
 Long Beach and Oakland are both busy port cities with blue-collar roots and almost identical poverty levels. Each has large white, black, Asian and Latino communities. Mr. Dellums called them mirror images.
 ''But when you look at the crime rate,'' Mr. Batts said, ''they are upside down.''
 Not that the force isn't trying, and having some success. In fact, with the notable exception of rape, which is up 14 percent from this time last year, Oakland has actually seen double-digit crime reductions thus far in 2009, including murder (down 19 percent from 2008), robbery (down 18 percent), arson (down 27 percent), larceny (15 percent) and auto theft (23 percent), and smaller reductions in assault and burglary.
 But how will Mr. Batts keep the crime rate going down while convincing city residents that the police force is on their side? It seems almost certain that he will call for an expansion of community policing. It is an idea that Oakland has tried and even underwritten -- with a 2004 ballot measure that resulted in 63 new ''problem-solving'' officers -- but that Mr. Dellums wants Mr. Batts to expand. 
 ''He understands how to do it on the ground,'' the mayor said. 
 That said, veterans of big-city policing say the mayor must also do his part. ''You need the political will to get it done,'' said Howard Safir, the former New York City police commissioner. ''You need the guy at your back.''
 In a 2006 article for the F.B.I. Law Enforcement Bulletin, Mr. Batts and Cynthia Renaud outlined his approach in Long Beach. In particular, he suggested that quality-of-life crimes like vandalism be more vigorously pursued by patrol divisions that draw on diverse skills, like those of nuisance abatement officers. 
 In one case he cited, officers and community leaders in Long Beach sealed off and collectively monitored a crime-plagued pedestrian bridge. Crime there dropped, he wrote.
 Some of these ideas have been used to varying degrees in Oakland. But senior members of the department say they expect bigger changes. ''Any time you have a change at an executive level, in any organization, you have a chance for new ideas and new beginnings,'' said Howard A. Jordan, the acting police chief. 
 Among the rank and file, meanwhile, the appointment of Mr. Batts -- an outsider -- has been met with guarded optimism.
 ''Is he going to be a crime fighter or is he going to be a politician?'' said Sgt. Dom Arotzarena, the president of the Oakland Police Officers Association, the force's labor union.
 The union made wage concessions this year to avoid more than 100 budget-related layoffs, but it remains unclear how the association will react to Mr. Batts's other ideas, like using civilian employees for paperwork duties for officers. 
 Mr. Batts said he would not coddle a force that has shown a remarkable propensity for self-inflicted wounds, likening them to a team (say, the Raiders) that shows flashes of excellence but constantly incurs penalties. 
 ''They do good police work at times,'' Mr. Batts said. ''But then they do some very stupid things.'' 
 And sometimes they take the rap for other departments' actions. In January, the Oakland department found itself dealing with rioters downtown after a young unarmed black man, Oscar Grant III, was shot to death by a BART officer at the Fruitvale stop. Mr. Jordan said even his own mother did not realize that Oakland police had not killed Mr. Grant. But other violent incidents have consistently involved Oakland officers. 
 Mr. Dellums especially wants the number of shootings by officers to decrease. When Mr. Batts was in Long Beach, the mayor said, ''His answer was tell officers to slow down, and think.'' 
 Perhaps the trickiest challenge facing Mr. Batts will be rebuilding trust among the city's African-Americans. They make up 30 percent of the population but suffered almost 80 percent of the murders in 2008. 
 ''There's a stigma attached in our community that being a police officer is a negative,'' said George Holland, the president of the local chapter of National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
 While Mr. Jordan said the March 21 killings might have strengthened relationships between the community, City Hall and the police, the pain remained palpable within the department. Those moves may be reopened next month when a report on the shootings is released.
 ''This is sort of a personal matter for every officer,'' he said. 
 It was personal enough for Mr. Batts that he decided to leave the site of his success and take on as tough a policing assignment as any in the country. His approach remains methodical. He plans to evaluate people for weeks before announcing a three-year strategic plan. And while the mayor is looking for more financing for the police, Mr. Batts is looking for a different kind of support, the support of a united city.
 ''There is no way I can be seen as the guy on the white horse if the body politic and the community is not able to step up and assist,'' Mr. Batts said. ''They can't get caught up in, 'This is not my neighborhood.' They have to think of it as 'This is my city.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Arias investigated shooting deaths in East Oakland on Oct. 8. The city is considered the violent crime capital of the area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A23A)
Anthony W. Batts (pg.A24A) GRAPHIC: HOMICIDES IN 2009: As of Wednesday, there were 89 homicides in Oakland, down from 110 during the same period last year. (Source: Oakland Police Department)
 CHART: A GLIMMER OF HOPE: Oakland, one of the nation's most violent cities, has seen a drop in all major crimes except rape so far in 2009, compared with the same period. (Source: Oakland Police Department) (pg.A23B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAROLE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PROBATION (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); COCAINE (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); RACE & RACISM (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



463 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Squinting, Citigroup Tries to See a Profit

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
After pulling off two consecutive quarterly profits, Citigroup slipped to a loss of $3.2 billion in the third quarter as spiraling consumer losses overwhelmed its strong trading results.
 The bank's headline number, net income of $101 million, came before it accounted for $288 million in preferred dividends and a debt exchange that gives Washington 34 percent of its earnings.
 The results add to the mounting pressure on Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, to turn around the troubled bank, which is one-third owned by taxpayers. Mr. Pandit has been trying to shrink the bank's balance sheet in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. 
 All the while, he is trying to find a way to repay part of the $45 billion in federal aid and get out from under the government's thumb. That has made it crucial for the bank to show investors it had a gain in the quarter, no matter how it eked it out -- hence, stressing the $101 million in income from continuing operations. 
 Citigroup's shares fell 25 cents, or 5 percent, to close at $4.75 on Thursday.
 The results came on the coattails of its trading operations, which cranked out good results from its bond and currency businesses. Still, its credit card and mortgage units are losing money, contributing to about $9.4 billion in consumer losses. And the bank added another $802 million to its reserves, about half as much as JPMorgan Chase set aside on Wednesday, as it braced for several more quarters of losses. Both banks now have loss reserves of over 5 percent of their loan portfolios. 
 ''This was an important quarter for us; sustainable profitability remains our primary goal in the near term,'' Mr. Pandit said in a statement. ''While consumer credit trends are improving in international markets, the U.S. consumer credit environment remains challenging.''
 It was another messy quarter for the company. Revenue increased to $20.39 billion, from $16.25 billion. But including a list of special items, the loss to stockholders was 27 cents a share, or $3.2 billion, compared with a loss of 61 cents a share, or $2.9 billion, in the third quarter a year ago. 
 Beyond widely diverging figures between its reported loss and operating profit stemming from accounting treatment, the bank suffered a $1.7 billion hit to its revenue from another adjustment, because of narrowing credit spreads. 
 It also booked a $1.4 billion gain associated with an exchange offer with the government that reduced income to ordinary shareholders, and a $1.97 billion gain on the value of some of its troubled mortgage-related investments, known as collateralized debt obligations.
 Citigroup broke its results into two segments. Citicorp, its core consumer and corporate banking operation, had a $2.2 billion profit in the third quarter. Citi Holdings, which contains the money-losing businesses and troubled assets the bank plans to sell, showed a $1.9 billion quarterly loss. It was weighed down by the heavy losses tied to private-label credit cards, mortgages and consumer loans. 
 John C. Gerspach, Citigroup's chief financial officer, said the bank was adequately reserved and presented a mixed picture of conditions in the United States. Mortgages losses, for example, began to slow in the quarter, in part because of the government's mortgage modification program, while more credit card borrowers fell behind on their loans. 
 But Mr. Gerspach pointed to marked improvement overseas, causing losses to moderate. ''We have seen improvements particularly in Asia, where it seems like it has already turned,'' he said in a conference call. Latin America, he added, also seems to be on the rebound.
 Mr. Pandit now seems to recognize that the clock is ticking, even if he got off to a slow start. In the quarter, he raced to sell businesses, including the bank's Norwegian consumer finance arm, its Portuguese credit card division and a Japanese brokerage unit. He has lightened the bank's balance sheet and eliminated thousands of jobs, and the bank said it was outperforming regulators' revenue projections from the spring's stress test. 
 But in spite of the progress during the quarter, Citigroup's executives acknowledged they were constrained. 
 ''We are not doing heavy investment in Citicorp businesses,'' Mr. Gerspach said. ''We are still de-risking the business.'' 
 Citigroup also remains heavily constrained by its awkward relations with the government. A week ago, the bank sold a lucrative energy trading unit to Occidental Petroleum to avoid a public showdown with the federal compensation specialist over a nine-figure bonus. Regulators, who are insuring some $306 billion of troubled assets, have ordered Citigroup's senior executives to undergo a management review.
 What is more, the bank seems to be months, if not longer, away from being healthy enough to start repaying the $45 billion it received in federal assistance. To do so, it must not only prove to regulators that it has recovered sufficiently to raise fresh capital, but it also must navigate a thicket of tax issues. 
 Mr. Gerspach said Citigroup now had the capacity to repay the money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program but was awaiting guidance from the government. ''Repaying TARP as soon as possible is clearly one of our stated goals,'' he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); TRENDS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



464 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: The Reality Moment

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
That which can't continue doesn't. A nation can spend and spend, pile debt upon debt, but eventually there comes a reality moment when some leader emerges to say enough is enough and when decent people, looking around at themselves and their own best nature, respond by demanding a return to responsibility. 
 In the United States, we're not at that moment yet. Private debt is being replaced by public debt. New entitlements are being created, and the money that could be used to ward off fiscal disaster is being used for other things. Here, Democrats still get ahead by promising tax cuts for the bottom 98 percent and Republicans get ahead by promising tax cuts for all and Medicare cuts for none. 
 But Britain has hit its reality moment. The Brits are ahead of us when it comes to public indebtedness and national irresponsibility. Spending has been out of control for longer and in a more sustained way.
 But in that country, the climate of opinion has turned. There, voters are ready for a politician willing to face reality. And George Osborne, who would become the chancellor of the Exchequer in the likely event that his Conservative Party wins the next election, has aggressively seized the moment.
 In a party conference address earlier this month, Osborne gave the speech that an American politician will someday have to give. He said that he is not ideologically hostile to government. ''Millions of Britons depend on public services and cannot opt out,'' he declared. He defended government workers against those who would deride them as self-serving bureaucrats: ''Conservatives should never use lazy rhetoric that belittles those who are employed by the government.''
 But, he pivoted, ''it is because we treat those who work in our public sector with respect that I want to be straight with you about the choices we face.'' The British government needs to cut back.
 Osborne declared that his government would raise the retirement age. That age was scheduled to rise at some point in the distant future. Osborne vowed to increase it sometime in the next five to 10 years.
 Osborne declared that there would be no tax cuts any time soon. He said that as a matter of principle he believes that the top income tax rate of 50 percent is too high. But, he continued, ''we cannot even think of abolishing the 50 percent rate in the rich'' while others down the income scale are asked to scrimp.
 Osborne offered government workers the same sort of choice that many private sector executives are forced to make. He proposed a public sector pay freeze in order to avoid 100,000 layoffs. He said that the pay freeze would apply to all workers except those making less than $:18,000 (nearly $29,000) ''because I don't believe in balancing the budget on the backs of the poorest. Nor do you.''
 There were other austerities. Osborne vowed to cut a program he once supported but which has not proved its worth: a baby bond program that was meant to help offset the costs of childhood. There would no longer be means-tested tax credits for families making more than $:50,000.
 Osborne's speech was not an isolated event. The Conservatives have treated British voters as adults for a year now, with a string of serious economic positions. The Conservatives supported the Labour government bank bailout, even though it was against their political interest to do so. Last November, Osborne opposed a cut in the value-added taxes on the grounds that the cuts were unaffordable and would not produce growth. It is not easy for any conservative party to oppose tax cuts, but this one did it.
 And the public has responded. The Conservatives now have a dominating lead over Labour. Over all, support for the Conservatives rose by 4 percentage points after Osborne's speech. The polls reveal that nearly 60 percent of Britons support the austerity measures. The Conservatives have a 21-point lead when it comes to being honest about public finances and a 14-point lead on economic policy generally.
 The key is that Osborne is not merely offering pain, but a different economic vision -- different from Labour and different from the Thatcherism that was designed to meet the problems of the 1980s.
 In the U.S., the economic crisis has caused many to question capitalism. But Britain has discredited the center-left agenda with its unrelenting public spending, its public development agencies and disappointing public-private investment partnerships.
 Osborne and David Cameron, the party leader, argue that Labour's decision to centralize power has undermined personal and social responsibility. They are offering a responsibility agenda from top to bottom. Decentralize power so local elected bodies have responsibility. Structure social support to encourage responsible behavior and responsible spending.
 If any Republican is looking for a way forward, start by doing what they're doing across the Atlantic. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INCOME TAX (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); MEDICARE (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); RETIREMENT AGE (64%); LAYOFFS (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



465 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IN FACE OF SANCTIONS PUSH, CHINA WARMS TO IRAN
 The Obama administration's effort to marshal global support for new sanctions against Iran hit another snag, when China said it was seeking to bolster cooperation and high-level exchanges with Iran. PAGE A12 
 ITALY DENIES PAYING TALIBAN 
 Italy's prime minister denied claims -- made in a British newspaper article -- that the Italian secret service bribed the Taliban in 2008 to maintain calm in the Afghan district under Italian control. PAGE A4 
 A DAM TESTS JAPAN LEADERS
 Japan's new government wants to scrap a $5.2 billion dam being built in Naganohara. It is the first major test of their vow to replace Japan's ''construction state.'' PAGE A4 
 DISPUTE BETWEEN KOREAS
 The North Korean military accused South Korean warships of entering the North's waters near its west coast. PAGE A10 
 U.N. OFFICIAL BACKS REPORT
 A United Nations report on war crimes committed in the Gaza war last winter received a statement of support from the top United Nations human rights official. PAGE A10 
 Obituaries
 WILLIAM WAYNE JUSTICE, 89
 A federal judge in Texas, he ruled on groundbreaking lawsuits that compelled the state to integrate schools, reform prisons and revamp many other policies. PAGE B11 
 DIETRICH VON BOTHMER, 90
 Regarded as the top expert on ancient Greek vases, he was a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for more than 60 years. PAGE B10 
 National
 VOTE FOR DETAINEE TRANSFER FROM GUANTaNAMO TO U.S.
 The House voted to allow detainees being held at the Guantanamo Bay naval base in Cuba to be transferred to the United States, but only to stand trial. PAGE A17 
 POSSIBLE DELAYS FOR REACTORS
 Regulators said a new nuclear reactor design might not withstand events like earthquakes and tornadoes. PAGE A13 
 JOB PROTESTS IN PUERTO RICO
 Thousands of union members brought a bustling San Juan to a holidaylike calm as they protested government plans to lay off more than 20,000 workers. PAGE A14 
 OBAMA VISITS NEW ORLEANS
 President Obama made his first visit to New Orleans as president and found impatience and frustration in a city struggling four years after Hurricane Katrina. PAGE A16 
 53 REPUBLICANS SEEK OUSTER
 House Republicans have signed a letter asking President Obama to fire an official charged with promoting school safety because of his career as an advocate of teaching tolerance of homosexuality. PAGE A19 
 New York
 REPORT SIGNALS SCHOOL POLICY ON PROMOTIONS IS WORKING
 A long-awaited study analyzing the Bloomberg administration's student-promotion policy says that fifth graders who were held back did better in subsequent years. PAGE A22 
 ALBANY SOUNDS FISCAL ALARM
 Gov. David A. Paterson proposed billions of dollars in spending cuts and raised alarms about New York's financial health. PAGE A23 
 Business
 BANK OF AMERICA CHIEF WILL GO UNPAID FOR 2009
 Bowing to increasing scrutiny of his compensation, Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's embattled chief executive who will step down at the end of the year, agreed not to take a salary or bonus for 2009. PAGE B1 
 BILL SHIELDS MOST BANKS
 After approving regulations over derivatives, a House committee exempted community banks, which represent more than 8,000 of the nation's roughly 8,200 banks, from the oversight of a new consumer protection agency. PAGE B1 
 POSITIVE SIGNS IN TECH SECTOR
 Several technology giants delivered better-than-expected quarterly financial results this week, suggesting, economists say, that the United States is truly emerging from the Great Recession. PAGE B1 
 WEAK DOLLAR? NOT SO MUCH
 There is renewed talk about a weak dollar. But don't believe it. Where it really counts, China, the dollar is not moving at all. High & Low Finance by Floyd Norris. PAGE B1 
 VOW TO ENFORCE WATER ACT
 The Environmental Protection Agency said it would remake enforcement of the Clean Water Act, as lawmakers sharply criticized the agency's decade-long lapses in punishing polluters. PAGE B1 
 Sports
 A DIFFERENT WORLD AWAITS THE AMERICAN SOCCER TEAM
 American soccer fans had better enjoy the team's two stirring rallies in recent days, because in the World Cup in South Africa next year, play will get harder, faster and tougher. PAGE B12 
 Weekend
 A BRITISH DRAMA EXAMINES THE IRAQ WAR
 ''Occupation,'' a British look at the Iraq war on BBC America, is one of the best television depictions yet of that conflict, and it isn't even a straightforward war story. A review by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE C1 
 JOURNEY OF FAITH AND LOVE
 Leon Botstein opened the American Symphony Orchestra season at Avery Fisher Hall by resuscitating another French opera: Vincent d'Indy's ''Fervaal.'' A review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1 
 Flu Season Hits 'Bye Bye Birdie' C1 
 Drummers Map Imaginary City C3 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A25 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (75%); NAVIES (73%); LITIGATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); PRISONS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (68%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (68%); NAVAL VESSELS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); JUDGES (66%); EDUCATION REFORM (65%); CLASSICS (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); LAYOFFS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID PATERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ITALY (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



466 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: In Saying No, G.O.P. Sees More Pros Than Cons

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The numbers are striking: Of the 217 Republicans in the House and the Senate, only one, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, has publicly supported a health care overhaul along the lines President Obama seeks.
 The Republicans' opposition is a remarkable display of the unity emerging against the broader Obama agenda as a dangerous expansion of government. That stance is popular with, even demanded by, the party's narrowed conservative base. 
 But it also exposes Republicans to criticism that they have become political obstructionists with no policy agenda of their own. And that could keep them from extending their appeal to the centrist voters who are essential to rebuilding the party's strength nationally. 
 Republicans' naysaying on health care, after their nearly unanimous opposition to Mr. Obama's economic stimulus package, has already drawn rare rebukes from an array of prominent party figures outside Capitol Hill, who say the party should be for something, not just against. Among the critics have been three former Senate Republican leaders: Bob Dole, Bill Frist and Howard H. Baker Jr.
 Congressional Republicans, however, are certain that the politics are on their side. Dismissing Democrats' attacks on them as ''the party of no,'' they point to polls and other signs indicating that high unemployment and deficits have created vast unease with Mr. Obama's agenda as the 2010 midterm elections approach.
 ''We're the party of know: k-n-o-w,'' said Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, chairman of House Republicans' campaign committee.
 ''We know a lot about the Democrats' plans, and we think it's a bad way to go,'' Mr. Sessions added. ''Theirs is about taxing and spending and destroying jobs.''
 Some other party strategists are optimistic about the prospect of Republican gains next year, perhaps enough gains to reclaim a House majority.
 ''I just don't think that there's a downside to voting no -- I really don't,'' said Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota. ''That's quite aside from whether you should or shouldn't, or whether the country needs it or doesn't need it. The basic rule is you rarely pay a price at the polls for being against something.''
 Republican incumbents ''have far more to lose,'' he said, ''by having the Republican base conclude that they're just throwing in the towel and compromising on a big-government agenda.''
 After recent defeats, Republicans are down to 40 members in the Senate and 177 in the House, or 40 percent in each chamber. They are largely reduced to the party's base of mostly Southern and rural states and beholden both to the conservative activists there and to the cable television celebrities those activists follow. 
 Few centrists remain. And since many centrists have been defeated by conservatives in party primaries, the survivors -- or any Republicans considering compromise -- operate in fear of similar challenges.
 Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania switched parties this year to avoid a Republican primary fight. In Utah, Senator Robert F. Bennett is unexpectedly facing a strong intraparty challenge, largely because he sponsored a bipartisan health plan. 
 Associates say Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the Senate Finance Committee's senior Republican, who is also up for re-election, might have cut a health deal with the committee chairman, Senator Max Baucus of Montana, a past ally, had Mr. Grassley not been unnerved by conservatives' warnings back home.
 Even Mr. Dole, one of the Republicans recently critical of their own party, said of his friend Mr. Grassley, ''You can't expect him to commit political suicide.''
 While Mr. Grassley has denied that politics plays a role, his opposition to health care proposals has helped bolster his support among Iowa Republicans, according to a recent poll for The Des Moines Register. Yet his longtime popularity among Democrats and independents dropped by 24 and 11 percentage points, respectively, compared with the results from a poll in April. 
 Last week Mr. Dole and Tom Daschle, a former Senate Democratic leader, issued a statement applauding Congress's progress on health care. The two men, along with Mr. Baker, another of the onetime Senate Republican leaders, had proposed a health plan of their own as a means of encouraging bipartisanship at the Capitol, but Mr. Baker declined to join in the statement after a current Republican senator urged him not to. Mr. Dole said that he too had gotten a call, his from Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the current Republican leader, but that he had not returned it.
 National polls hold some warnings for Republicans. One, by CBS News last week, found that 69 percent of Americans say the party is not serious about health care reform. Another, for the nonpartisan Pew Research Center, found that even 62 percent of the Democratic initiative's opponents say Republicans should try to improve it, not kill it. That finding ''implies that there might not be a big political windfall'' for Republicans in opposing the measure, said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew center.
 More important than national polls, Mr. Weber countered, are polls in states where Republicans hope to regain ground next year -- in the South, the rural Midwest and the Mountain West -- that he said were much more supportive. 
 Republicans say their hostility to Mr. Obama on health care is no different from Democrats' opposition in 2005 to President George W. Bush's proposal to partly privatize Social Security. But Republicans, who had majorities in Congress then, were unsupportive as well in that case. Further, while most Democrats disagreed with Mr. Bush's view that Social Security faced a financial crisis, both parties agree that the health care system needs overhaul. 
 Republicans ''all stand up and say they're for health care reforms, so why don't they do something about it?'' Mr. Dole said. He said he held out hope that they would, ''because I don't believe they could absorb just across-the-board being against everything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (73%); PETE SESSIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



467 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: The Tech Sector Trumpets Signs of a Real Rebound

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Ashlee Vance contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The calendar says we are well on our way to winter, but for many technology companies, orders are starting to bloom like flowers after a spring rain. 
 Strong and steady improvement, economists say, would suggest that the United States is truly emerging from the Great Recession. Yet if tech spending fades, it would mean that recovery is further off. 
 So far, there are many encouraging signs. The technology giants Intel, I.B.M. and Google delivered better-than-expected quarterly financial results this week, and their executives expressed confidence that the worst was over and a rebound under way. Top executives at Dell, Cisco Systems and other tech companies have also been optimistic recently.
 ''The worst of the recession is clearly behind us and because of what we have seen, we now have the confidence to be optimistic about our future,'' Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, told analysts Thursday after the company's strong earnings report. 
 Much depends on how the nascent revival in the technology sector plays out. Computer hardware and software are building blocks of the modern economy, as basic as iron ore and coal were to the industrial era. Together, technology products represent about half of all business spending on equipment.
 Microchips and clever code animate consumer technology goods, like personal computers and Apple iPhones. Larger computers in data centers power e-mail, electronic commerce and the Internet. 
 ''This will be a technology-led recovery,'' said Edward Yardeni, an economist and investment strategist. ''And the improvement we're seeing from the technology companies suggests the recovery has legs.'' 
 Paul S. Otellini, chief executive of Intel, the world's largest semiconductor maker, pointed to his company's solid third-quarter performance on Tuesday and said it showed that ''computing is essential to people's lives, proving the importance of technology innovation in leading an economic recovery.''
 Computer chips like those made by Intel are a key ingredient of technology goods, and spending on the equipment used to make semiconductors is projected to rise by 47 percent in the second half of this year, according to Gartner, a research firm.
 On Thursday, I.B.M., a leader in software and technology services sold to companies, reported profits and revenue that surpassed Wall Street's expectations. 
 The company's net income rose 14 percent from a year earlier to $3.2 billion, or $2.40 a share. I.B.M. lifted its guidance for full-year profits by 15 cents a share from its previous projection, and added that it expected year-on-year revenue to grow in the current quarter. Revenue in the third quarter fell by 5 percent, adjusted for currency movements, to $23.6 billion.
 ''We're seeing more stability in the economy,'' Mark Loughridge, I.B.M.'s chief financial officer, said in an interview. ''That's a big improvement over the relentless declines we had been seeing.''
 The strongest markets for technology suppliers have been in developing nations, like China, India and Brazil. In the United States, much of the technology spending so far has been by consumers, especially buying personal computers and smartphones. 
 But analysts caution that it is too early to tell whether the spending pickup will carry through to a key market: corporations. 
 ''We're seeing glimmers of improvement, but it would be premature to say we're on a strong recovery path,'' said Richard Berner, an economist at Morgan Stanley.
 Managers who make technology purchase decisions have yet to really open their wallets, although recent surveys of their intentions have become far more positive. Corporate buying tends to trail an economic recovery because companies routinely take several months to budget and plan technology projects. 
 ''We're seeing corporate budgets stabilize, and with greater clarity on budgets, companies are able to plan better and move ahead on technology projects,'' said Peter Sondergaard, senior vice president for research at Gartner.
 Tech industry executives say corporations are preparing to replace their aging personal computers -- purchases that were put off during the depths of the recession. There are already some signs that companies are buying new PCs again, executives say, and that could well accelerate after the introduction of the Windows 7 operating system, a Microsoft product that will be released next week.
 Companies typically buy new PCs six months or so after Microsoft introduces a new operating system, after they have the chance to test the software and plan their rollout. 
 ''I think there is a very powerful refresh cycle that is coming,'' Michael S. Dell, chief executive of Dell, said in a speech this week. ''We are seeing the planning and early stages of this from the clients we serve, which would be about 85 percent of the organizations in the United States that have more than 500 people.''
 John T. Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, was even more bullish recently, predicting a substantial increase in productivity at American companies driven by investments in Internet software and hardware. ''I think we are entering a period very similar to 1997 to 2004, where you'll see a decade run of productivity increases,'' he said in an interview.
 Rising confidence and investment eventually translate into stepped-up hiring. That phase has just begun.
 Google, for example, began hiring again in August in response to a pickup in the company's search and Internet advertising businesses, according to its chief executive, Mr. Schmidt. He said the company was also scouting for acquisitions again.
 ''I can't prove it,'' Mr. Schmidt said, ''but I would hope we're a leading indicator.''
 Infosys, an Indian technology services and outsourcing company, plans to hire 1,000 workers in the United States over the next year. The move is part of its strategy to hire more locals as it expands in the American market. An improving economy would accelerate the program. ''We are gaining momentum and will speed up the hiring,'' said Nandita Gurjar, a senior vice president at Infosys.
 The steady march of digital technology, in industry after industry, is pushing the demand for information technology. The recession curbed spending for a while, and forced organizations to improve the efficiency of their data centers and technology operations. But that goes only so far. In health care, for example, rising demand is being driven by the push for computerized health records, the adoption of digital radiography, digital pathology techniques and telemedicine.
 ''There is this huge growth in digital data coming in health care, and it is only going to add to the need for computing resources of all kinds,'' said Daniel Drawbaugh, chief information officer of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, a large hospital and physician group.
 Yet the pervasive spread of computing across industries and society, analysts say, also means the long-term growth trend in the tech sector is as much a mirror of the economy as an engine. 
 ''It is a reflection over all of how the economy is performing,'' said Stephen Minton, an analyst at the research group IDC.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I think there is a very powerful refresh cycle that is coming,'' Michael S. Dell said this week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); SEMICONDUCTORS (70%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%); CURRENCIES (50%); SMARTPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); INTEL CORP (92%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (75%); PAUL S OTELLINI (56%); MICHAEL DELL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



468 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Has Little Faith in Its Candidates, Poll Shows

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Marjorie Connelly, Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In New Jersey, one of only two states with governor's races this year, voters are gloomy about the future, upset about their own circumstances and deeply unsettled by the economy.
 Still, they remain broadly supportive of President Obama, even as they are skeptical of some of his programs and have yet to feel the impact of the federal stimulus.
 These findings, in the latest New York Times poll, could bolster the Democratic incumbent, Jon S. Corzine, who has latched onto Mr. Obama and persuaded many voters that his Republican opponent, Christopher J. Christie, favors policies that would help the rich at the expense of the poor and middle class. 
 Despite efforts by Mr. Christie, a former federal prosecutor, to make inroads with minority voters on issues like crime and school choice and to win over centrists unhappy with the governor's record, Mr. Corzine also retains the support of many traditionally Democratic groups, including urban residents, women and liberals.
 But the decision facing New Jersey voters is startlingly bleak, the poll found. They do not like Mr. Corzine, think he has done a poor job and have little faith that he will revive the state's ailing economy or gain control of soaring property taxes, the two issues they say they care about the most.
 But the electorate is just as skeptical of Mr. Christie, who has been hit with a blizzard of Mr. Corzine's attack ads but has failed to get across a positive message. Most voters think he has not explained his positions, and among those who offer an opinion of him, twice as many dislike him as like him. That suggests that Mr. Corzine's TV ad campaign is working; he has spent more than $10 million, much of it on ads attacking Mr. Christie. 
 With the two campaigns slinging mud but inspiring scant hope, and an independent candidate, Christopher J. Daggett, seen as having little chance of victory, New Jerseyans are more supportive of the devil they know than the devil they don't, according to the poll, taken Friday through Wednesday. 
 Among all registered voters, Mr. Corzine had the support of 40 percent, Mr. Christie 30 percent and Mr. Daggett 13 percent. When narrowed to those determined to be likely voters, Mr. Corzine is still at 40 percent, while Mr. Christie receives 37 percent -- a gap that is within the margin of sampling error -- and Mr. Daggett draws 14 percent. In the last two elections for governor only 49 percent of registered voters cast ballots.
 Still, New Jersey voters often break late for a candidate, and fully 30 percent who expressed support for a candidate said they may change their mind before the Nov. 3 election.
 ''I'm voting for the lesser of two evils,'' Laurie Moss, 59, a secretary from Cherry Hill and a Republican, said in a follow-up interview, explaining that she favors the governor's re-election though she thinks ''he speaks with a forked tongue.'' She added: ''I'm not happy with our property taxes. I'm not happy with a lot of things. But Christie doesn't offer anything better.''
 Steven Schwartz, 55, a litigation consultant from Montvale and a Democrat, said Mr. Corzine has ''mishandled the fiscal side'' and done a poor job of working with legislators. But he said Mr. Christie has offered nothing but vague promises. ''He'll cut spending and taxes and restore the property tax rebate. How?'' he said. ''If 'none of the above' were an option, I would take it.''
 Voters were determined to be likely to vote based on their stated intention to vote, attention to the campaign and history of voting. The poll of 987 adults included 867 registered voters, of whom 475 were considered likely to vote. It had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points for all adults and registered voters, and between 4 and 5 percentage points for likely voters.
 Economic issues have New Jerseyans near despair, the survey showed. About three-quarters of those polled rated the state's economy as fairly bad or very bad, the worst rating since the question was first asked in 1993. As many say it is hard to keep up with their bills. Four of five think the economy is staying the same or getting worse. Seven in 10 worry that a member of their household will be out of work in the next year.
 But if New Jerseyans seem blue, it is in two senses of the word: President Obama, who carried the state with 57 percent of the vote, now has an approval rating of 61 percent, though most voters say they have seen no impact from the federal stimulus package and many say they expect no resulting improvement or job creation.
 Nearly three of four voters say corruption is firmly entrenched in New Jersey, and they have slightly more faith in Mr. Christie's ability to root it out. Asked about Mr. Corzine's handling of corruption as governor, about half say they disapprove.
 But a majority of voters say they cannot relate personally to either Mr. Christie or Mr. Corzine, and neither man is considered likable: 46 percent of voters view Mr. Corzine unfavorably, 30 percent favorably, and 23 percent have no opinion. For Mr. Christie, 41 percent do not have an opinion, 37 percent view him unfavorably and 19 percent have a favorable opinion of him. Mr. Daggett, who lacks the money to advertise heavily, is unknown to most voters: nearly 8 in 10 have no opinion of him.
 Mr. Daggett has come under attack by Republicans who believe he hurts Mr. Christie more than he does Mr. Corzine, but the poll suggests that the independent is drawing equally from the two major-party candidates.
 Independents, who often decide elections in the state, are very much in play, with one-third favoring Mr. Corzine and nearly the same number favoring Mr. Christie, while some 23 percent back Mr. Daggett.
 Mr. Corzine's job approval has declined significantly since three years ago; 33 percent approve of his performance, while 49 percent disapprove. Yet voters overwhelmingly expect him to win re-election. But only 32 percent of likely voters say they strongly support their candidate, 36 percent say they have reservations, and 30 percent say they are voting for their candidate because they dislike the alternatives. 
 Kenneth Gormley, 72, a retired engineer from Mantua, said he would vote for Mr. Daggett though he didn't much care for him, either. ''He's the lesser of three evils,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHRISTIE: Many voters said the Republican has not explained his ideas.
CORZINE: The Democratic incumbent has high disapproval ratings.
DAGGETT: Nearly 8 in 10 voters have no opinion of the independent. CHARTS: New Jersey Residents on Corzine: Do you approve or disapprove of the way Jon Corzine is handling . . .
 New Jersey Voters on the Candidates for Governor: Has the candidate clearly explained his positions on the issues facing New Jersey, or has he not?(Based on statewide telephone interviews conducted Oct. 9-14 with 987 adults, of whom 867 were registered to vote. Totals may not add up to 100 because of rounding.)(A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%); CITIES (53%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



469 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Weighing the Options in Afghanistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 How many history lessons do we need -- France and the United States in Vietnam, the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, the United States in Iraq and eight years in Afghanistan -- to see the folly in continuing our military presence in the Middle East and South Asia?
 It is a sad but undeniable truth that we cannot intervene in all countries where there is injustice and suffering due to corrupt and cruel leadership, or a governing system that we do not believe is in the best interests of the people. 
 It is time for the president to declare a new Obama Doctrine: ''I will not risk any more American lives unless there is a clear and immediate military threat to the United States or one of our allies. We must focus our human and economic resources on the problems that will determine our future: the economy, health care, energy independence, education and the environment.''
 Harvey Shepard
 Exeter, N.H., Oct. 14, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Real Peace Prize Will Be Elusive'' (Week in Review, Oct. 11):
 Your description of the Afghan war situation and especially the Taliban offers excellent insight into the complicated challenges in Afghanistan. Having been there many times, I can attest that the international community will never be able to win militarily in Afghanistan; the adversary is simply too elusive and too complex.
 Worse, because of civilian casualties and heightened insecurity, some Afghans are beginning to see us as an occupation force. We have to win ''the hearts and minds of the Afghans'' and have to focus on the young ones. More than half of Afghans are younger than 18, according to Unicef, and from my observation the average young family has parents in their 20s and between five and eight children.
 We have to assist with effective job creation programs that offer sustainable income and good pay. Then the Taliban or any radical force will lose, the Afghans will gain trust and we might be successful.
 Wolfgang Danspeckgruber
 Princeton, N.J., Oct. 11, 2009
 The writer is director of the Liechtenstein Institute on Self-Determination at Princeton University.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''War Debate Now Leans to a Focus on Al Qaeda'' (front page, Oct. 8):
 The Obama administration's desire to find a ''middle way'' between all-in and all-out in United States strategy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan is certainly understandable. But a policy based primarily on fighting Al Qaeda in Pakistan is fraught with peril.
 A Taliban takeover of most or all of Afghanistan would signal the largest victory for the global jihadist movement since the Soviets withdrew from there in 1989. The idea that a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan would not once again become a terrorist safe haven for the Pakistani Taliban and other jihadists from around the world is beyond wishful thinking.
 And what of America's credibility in the global struggle against Islamic extremism? The sight of Afghan women once again being hanged and shot in soccer stadiums for dressing improperly would be a public relations nightmare that would haunt the United States for generations.
 This is not to suggest that the all-in counterinsurgency option in Afghanistan would be easy, or even successful. But we should not fool ourselves that there is a viable and optimal middle option in this complex, high-stakes challenge. Stuart Gottlieb
 New Haven, Oct. 8, 2009
 The writer teaches United States foreign policy and counterterrorism at Yale and Columbia Universities.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Views on Afghanistan Buildup Bring Clinton and Gates Together in an Alliance'' (news article, Oct. 13):
 I want to offer the secretaries of state and defense a warning that I came across in the papers of the late Senator Richard B. Russell, a Democrat from Georgia.
 After Senator Russell's onetime protege, President Lyndon B. Johnson, had moved the United States into a major war in Vietnam, something Senator Russell had warned against, he lamented in 1966 to a constituent in Georgia that opponents of the United States had ''outwitted us in getting us pinned down in the most unfavorable place in Asia to fight a war, unless it be Afghanistan.'' 
 I found this letter in 1989, 14 years after the United States pulled out ignominiously from Vietnam, and just as the Soviet Union had withdrawn from its long, drawn-out venture in Afghanistan. David M. Barrett
 Villanova, Pa., Oct. 13, 2009
 The writer is a professor of political science at Villanova University. 
 To the Editor:
 Rather than increasing the number of American troops in Afghanistan, President Obama should do what President Bush should have done at the outset: send in the Army Corps of Engineers to oversee the total rebuilding of that war-devastated country's infrastructure; hire the local populace to do the work; and pay them in their own afghani, stuffed in envelopes with an American flag in the upper-left corner. 
 This way, instead of making friends with a corrupt government, we would have the Afghan people on our side.
 Schuyler Bishop
 New York, Oct. 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Biden No Longer a Lone Voice on Afghanistan'' (front page, Oct. 14):
 After Vice President Dick Cheney's complicity in the Bush administration's mad rush to war in Iraq, it has been a relief to note Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s valiant voice of sanity in pressing for force reduction in Afghanistan.
 The contrast between the two leaders could not be greater. Tracy Leverton
 Vienna, Va., Oct. 14, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); AL-QAEDA (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CHILDREN (72%); JOB CREATION (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TERRORISM (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (90%); FRANCE (88%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); LIECHTENSTEIN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



470 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Proposes Cuts Of Billions in Spending

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson proposed billions of dollars in spending cuts on Thursday and raised alarms about New York's financial health as the state faces a deficit of nearly $50 billion over the next three and a half years.
 The governor's plan, which seeks to close a deficit for this fiscal year projected to be $3 billion, includes cuts to education and Medicaid as well as a grab bag of other strategies, including creating a tax amnesty program and raiding the state's environmental protection fund. 
 The plan, which needs legislative approval, also includes a $2 billion reduction in spending for the next fiscal year, which starts in April.
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which recently went through an arduous process to close a budget deficit, would see its aid sliced by $113 million. 
 School aid would be cut by $686 million for the remainder of the school year, or an average of 3 percent per district, though wealthier districts would be hit harder under a formula devised by the Paterson administration that is sure to be the subject of a legislative fight.
 New York City faces a $223 million cut in school aid in the current school year, or about 2.6 percent of the state's school aid. The city's schools have already had to wrestle with a budget gap, and many schools have cut after-school programs and left vacancies unfilled.
 Cuts to schools in the middle of the year would be particularly difficult for principals, who have already planned their spending for the rest of the year. 
 Mr. Paterson's plan would also cut $471 million from Medicaid and other health and mental health programs. The plan includes a previously announced $500 million cut in the budgets of state agencies, the only part of the broad proposal that the governor can accomplish without legislative approval. 
 The plan also assumes the state will reap $200 million from a long-delayed effort to settle on a bidder to build a casino at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens. 
 The Paterson administration and budget watchdogs are growing concerned that Albany has yet to reckon with the recession. The governor and state lawmakers used federal stimulus money to continue New York's heady spending increases in the budget passed in the spring, leaving the state with unprecedented projected deficits over the next five years. 
 The governor had previously avoided proposing specific spending cuts, fearing a backlash from special interest groups, and indeed his plan was criticized by a variety of advocates, though proponents of fiscal conservatism praised Mr. Paterson's move. But his effort to tackle a worsening financial crisis was met with indifference by the fractious State Senate, whose Democratic leaders are on what they have billed as a 10-day trade mission in China. 
 ''New York is ground zero for the fiscal crisis,'' Mr. Paterson, referring to the state's reliance on Wall Street revenue, said during a press conference. ''This is a very painful plan, but we will share the burden. This budget deficit has affected all of us, and all of us are going to have to sacrifice.''
 Hundreds of programs face cuts -- libraries stand to lose $3.3 million, summer programs for special education students face a $10.4 million cut, and more than $14 million would be cut from Child Health Plus, a public insurance program. At least 31 H.I.V./AIDS programs also face cuts.
 Though the state approved a tax increase on the state's highest earners to balance the budget last spring, Mr. Paterson ruled out further tax increases. 
 The governor said he would like to call a special legislative session on Oct. 27, but the Senate appears unlikely to act soon. The chamber said in response to the governor's proposal that it would hold statewide budget hearings starting Oct. 26. Timing is critical since the longer the state waits to implement cuts, the deeper it must cut into various programs. 
 Senator Carl Kruger, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he did not agree yet on the administration's deficit forecast.
 ''We require an accurate fiscal forecast based on the midyear report to be released in two weeks,'' he said. ''Once that information has been provided, the Senate will continue to move forward by holding budget hearings and further negotiations.''
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat from the Lower East Side, said he wanted to move quickly. He will meet with Assembly delegations in New York City, Buffalo and Albany early next week, and the Assembly will hold two hearings on the matter afterward. 
 ''The governor did what he had to, he took the bull by the horns,'' Mr. Silver said. ''I believe the quicker we move the less painful it will be.''
 New York's predicament resulted from a host of problems, chiefly the crisis on Wall Street. Though there have been signs of a recovery at some big banks, the landscape of Wall Street has changed permanently, with thousands of jobs lost. 
 As Mr. Paterson predicted, several prominent interest groups lost no time assailing his plan. 
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, and George Gresham, president of 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, called the cuts ''astonishing in their disregard for New York's health care community and the patients they serve.'' Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said, ''The children in New York City's classrooms should not have to bear the brunt of these cuts.''
 Others were supportive. Kenneth Adams, president of the Business Council of New York State, said Mr. Paterson offered ''a bold and realistic plan,'' while Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said, ''The governor has tried to bring some needed sense of fiscal responsibility to Albany.''
 Even if an agreement can be reached on the plan, it may not be enough. While the state budget division is forecasting a $3 billion deficit, the comptroller's office said on Wednesday that the deficit this year was actually $4.1 billion and projected a gap of nearly $50 billion through March 2013.
 ''The situation is dire,'' Mr. Paterson said, adding, ''even the comptroller estimates that there still may be more to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson discussing his deficit reduction plan in Albany. Education, Medicaid and transit aid would shrink.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (68%); CASINOS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); AMNESTY (56%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); CONSERVATISM (50%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



471 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Bridge May Rise Even if Waters Don't, After Japan Rethinks Dam

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: NAGANOHARA, Japan 

 BODY:
The clatter of construction machinery still fills this forested mountain gorge, where legions of men in hard hats busily pour concrete, clear hillsides and erect a huge, unfinished bridge whose concrete supports tower over the valley floor like crucifixes in an immense graveyard.
 It seems an apt analogy. Japan's new government has suspended the $5.2 billion Yamba Dam being built here and turned this valley four hours north of Tokyo into a symbolic final resting place for the nation's postwar order, which relied on colossal public works spending.
 The Democratic Party government of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama has chosen this dam as the first of 48 national government-financed dams that it wants to scrap, worth tens of billions of dollars. Canceling it is widely seen here as the first major test of the new government's ability to deliver on campaign promises to revitalize Japan's ailing economy by ending wasteful projects, and in the process break the grip of the central planners in Tokyo's powerful ministries. 
 Decades of pouring concrete have been widely blamed in Japan for cluttering rural areas with needless dams and roads to nowhere. They have also saddled the country with the developed world's largest national debt -- nearly twice its $5 trillion economy. Mr. Hatoyama's party has vowed to replace Japan's postwar ''construction state'' and the jobs it created with something closer to a European-style social welfare system.
 The Democrats, who won a landmark election over the long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party in late August, have also promised to scrap planned airports and highways. But dams are particularly symbolic because they were favored as a means of flood control and power generation by Japan's central planners, who have dammed almost every major river in the country, some more than once.
 Japan had around 60 large dams under construction in 2005, making it the world's fourth largest dam-building nation, according to The International Journal on Hydropower and Dams, despite having a land area smaller than California's. 
 But the Democrats have run into opposition from an unexpected quarter: the small hot springs town of Naganohara, part of which would be submerged by the reservoir created by the dam. 
 In what has become a David and Goliath battle, the town of 6,400 residents has put the new government on the defensive. Many residents complain that the town's livelihood now depends on the dam, and particularly the compensation payments and construction jobs that accompany it.
 ''If the dam gets canceled, how are we going to eat?'' asked Naganohara's mayor, Kinya Takayama, who noted that the dam was first proposed 57 years ago.
 Tempers flared last month, when angry residents rejected an offer to meet the new minister in charge of public works, Seiji Maehara, who visited the dam site.
 Facing a wave of news coverage sympathetic to the town, Mr. Maehara signaled that even after canceling the dam, Tokyo would finish relocation of the affected townspeople and complete the roads and bridges that will link the new neighborhoods on higher ground. 
 That construction would cost $850 million, in addition to the $3.6 billion spent on the project so far. This, and about $1.8 billion in compensation that Tokyo might end up paying to Gunma Prefecture, where Naganohara is located, and other local governments could mean that canceling the dam would prove more expensive than completing it.
 The ferocity of Naganohara's opposition has already forced the new government to reconsider the scope of its dam-busting plans. Last Friday, Mr. Maehara said he would consult with local governments to decide whether to cancel an additional 87 nationally subsidized dam projects that he had originally vowed to scrap.
 At the center of this costly battle lies what political experts call one of the thorniest legacies of Japan's enormous public works spending: the near total dependence of local communities on the purse strings of the central government.
 While public works spending is down from its 1990s peak, the construction industry continues to dominate the economy, with construction companies this year employing 8 percent of all working Japanese, twice the level in the United States, according to government labor statistics. 
 Mr. Hatoyama has vowed to cut spending even further, trimming an additional $14 billion this year from Tokyo's $88 billion public works budget. But political experts say his biggest challenge will be to wean regional communities from their reliance on Tokyo.
 ''What's happening at Yamba Dam is actually a revolution in the way Japan is run,'' said Takayoshi Igarashi, a professor of politics at Hosei University in Tokyo. ''This would end Japan's structure of dependence on public works and central planning.''
 In Naganohara, more than 20 construction companies employ about 400 people -- about 10 percent of working-age residents. Local people say the town has already suffered hundreds of job losses as ballooning national deficits forced cuts in public works earlier this decade by Junichiro Koizumi, then the prime minister.
 ''I'm not wedded to the idea of building a dam here, but we need the public works to keep everyone employed,'' said Katsuyoshi Hoshino, the president of Miyako Construction, based in Naganohara, which has 10 employees.
 The town has tried to come up with its own alternatives for creating jobs, like turning the hot springs into a ''Diet Valley'' of weight-loss spas for young women. 
 Local people admit that few of their ideas offer the financial benefits of the dam. While many of the town's original homes on the valley floor seem cramped and run-down, those being built on the mountainside are large and modern, with solar panels on their roofs.
 ''The dam is like a drug that is making us addicted,'' said Takuji Toyoda, 57, who owns a hot-springs inn. ''The money keeps pouring in every year to build things for us.''
 In fact, some residents blame the dam and its construction for destroying the town's original economic self-sufficiency by forcing farmers to give up their fields and driving tourists away from the hot springs. 
 Kichitaro Tomizawa, 69, a rice and vegetable farmer, said he resisted leaving his large, unpainted wooden home because it had been in his family for four generations and was the place where as a 3-year-old he last saw his father, who died in World War II. But he said that once his neighbors started relocating, he had no choice but to follow, because it takes entire communities to maintain the irrigation ducts used for rice farming.
 Mr. Tomizawa's five-acre farm sits near the bottom of one of the huge crucifix-like concrete pillars built to support a $60 million bridge that is to rise 250 feet above the valley floor -- high enough to stand above the reservoir, should it ever take shape.
 When pressed, few local people admit to liking the dam. But few can imagine how the town will sustain itself without the project. 
 ''We'll have to find some other way to survive,'' said Mr. Hoshino, the construction company president. ''But I can't see that way now. The future is dark.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bridge supports in Naganohara, Japan. The bridge was meant to cross a reservoir behind the Yamba Dam, a project the Japanese government has suspended.
A road being built in Naganohara. The Japanese government said projects connected with the Yamba Dam would continue.(pg. A4)
 Takuji Toyoda, who owns a hot-springs inn, said of local dependence on Yamba Dam money, ''The dam is like a drug.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A8) MAP: If built, the Yamba Dam would flood part of Naganohara.(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); RIVERS (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); FLOOD CONTROL (73%); MAYORS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CEMETERIES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



472 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: A Watchdog in Congress Is Now a Target Himself

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
As chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Representative Edolphus Towns has not been shy about criticizing the excesses of the financial services industry, from executive bonuses to Wall Street profits, as well as the spotty track record of some bond-rating agencies. 
 But his refusal to subpoena records involving Countrywide Financial, a company blamed for lending practices that contributed to the subprime mortgage crisis, has made Mr. Towns himself the target of criticism. 
 For months, Mr. Towns, a Brooklyn Democrat, has rebuffed Republican efforts to subpoena documents concerning Countrywide's V.I.P. program, which gave special treatment to high-profile customers, including federal mortgage regulators and at least two United States senators. The standoff took on a more personal tone last month, when a published report said that two loans issued through the program were given to Mr. Towns.
 So when the committee gathered on Capitol Hill on Thursday, Representative Darrell Issa of California, the ranking Republican, again pushed to subpoena records from Bank of America, which bought Countrywide in 2008. But after convening in a caucus room for 35 minutes, Democrats left without calling the meeting to order, citing a scheduling conflict. 
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Towns said that the subpoena effort was a ''smear campaign'' and that the chairman's reluctance to investigate Countrywide had nothing to do with his personal finances. 
 ''The Republicans are trying to wage unfair political attacks against senators and other members of Congress,'' the spokeswoman, Jenny Rosenberg, said. ''Chairman Towns is focusing on going after companies that received bailout money to be certain they repay taxpayers.'' 
 Ms. Rosenberg said the focus on Countrywide was misguided because the oversight committee had investigated Countrywide last year, and the Senate ethics committee, which investigated V.I.P. loans to Senators Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and Kent Conrad of North Dakota, both Democrats, concluded they had used bad judgment but had not violated any ethics rules.
 Ms. Rosenberg said she was not certain whether Mr. Towns's mortgage had been processed through the V.I.P. program. But she said he did not receive a reduced interest rate or any other preferential treatment.
 ''He went to his local mortgage guy and got a normal mortgage,'' she said. ''The guy's from Brooklyn and doesn't have much money and wasn't prominent enough to be considered a V.I.P. Whether it was later transferred through the V.I.P. program, I don't know. But he didn't receive any favors.'' 
 Ms. Rosenberg also said Mr. Issa had accepted $3,000 in campaign contributions from the company several years ago. 
 Records in Brooklyn and Hillsborough County, Fla., where Mr. Towns owns homes, show he has twice had mortgages with Countrywide since 2003, although he has not done business with it since 2005. The Wall Street Journal reported that his loan documents carried a code that corresponded to the V.I.P. program.
 Countrywide employees have said the program was designed by the company's former chief executive, Angelo R. Mozilo, and was intended to curry favor with officials who could help with policy or regulatory matters. Company e-mail messages and statements from former loan officers indicate that the program -- nicknamed ''Friends of Angelo'' -- offered reduced fees or below-market interest rates to high-ranking customers, including officials at the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Fannie Mae, a government-sponsored company that guarantees mortgages. 
 After a lengthy investigation of Senators Dodd and Conrad, however, the Senate ethics committee said that the program appeared to do little more than offer expedited service, and that it issued loans at market rates.
 In a letter last month refusing Republican calls for the subpoena of Countrywide records, Mr. Towns described the V.I.P. program as a customer-loyalty initiative ''similar to airline frequent-flier plans or supermarket discount cards.''
 Republicans said they would continue to press for an investigation because they want to prevent attempts to weaken financial regulation by offering discounts to government officials.
 The committee, Mr. Issa said, ''needs to investigate Countrywide's efforts to buy influence.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ETHICS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BONDS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); POLITICS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ED TOWNS (91%); KENT CONRAD (58%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



473 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Bank Chief Forgoes Pay For 2009

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Bowing to pressure from Washington's pay czar, Kenneth D. Lewis agreed on Thursday to forgo his salary and bonus as chief executive of Bank of America, as new legal questions emerged about the troubled takeover of Merrill Lynch that led to his downfall.
 Two weeks after abruptly announcing his resignation, Mr. Lewis promised to return the pay he received this year to avoid a confrontation with Kenneth R. Feinberg, the Obama administration's overseer of executive compensation. Mr. Lewis, who plans to retire on Dec. 31, still stands to collect a $53.2 million pension, which will fall under Mr. Feinberg's purview. 
 The move came as new details emerged about the role of a prominent law firm in Mr. Lewis's star-crossed acquisition of Merrill Lynch at the height of the financial crisis.
 The firm, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, initially advised Bank of America to withhold information about the perilous state of Merrill from the bank's shareholders, but later advised it to alert federal officials to the growing losses, according to four people with direct knowledge of the matter. 
 The developments thrust Wachtell, a white-shoe adviser to corporate America, into one of the most troubled and closely watched deals of the financial crisis. Bank of America maintains that it did not mislead investors. But its disclosures are now the subject of several state and federal investigations. The legal snarl, and shareholder ire over the deal, prompted Mr. Lewis to resign. Legal experts say the ultimate responsibility may lie with Bank of America, not its lawyers.
 Bank of America plans to turn over documents Friday that are expected to shed new light on the deal and on Wachtell's role in it. The bank could face greater scrutiny if the documents show that executives knowingly misled investors or government officials. 
 Wachtell also advised Bank of America that it probably could not back out of the deal, even if it tried, according to the people with knowledge of the matter. And Wachtell kept Merrill's bonuses hidden from investors, without consulting the bank's management, the four people said. That, however, is often standard practice in preparing merger agreements.
 A spokesman for Wachtell declined to comment on the legal advice it provided Bank of America. The bank also declined to comment. The New York attorney general, Congress and the Securities and Exchange Commission are looking into why the bank did not tell shareholders that Merrill had suffered huge losses and had made large bonus payouts just before the deal. The bank has said it does not believe it misled investors. 
 According to another person briefed on the matter, Edward D. Herlihy and Nicholas G. Demmo, top lawyers at Wachtell, have received subpoenas from the attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo. 
 Wachtell was intimately involved in the Merrill merger from the start. The negotiations took place in the law firm's Midtown Manhattan offices. Mr. Herlihy, a 25-year veteran of the firm who had long worked with Bank of America on other deals, was already close with Mr. Lewis.
 In early November, a team that Bank of America put in place to oversee Merrill's transition spotted large losses as they grew on Merrill's books. Alarmed, bank executives held marathon meetings on the weekends around Thanksgiving. They contacted Mr. Herlihy with a pressing question: should Bank of America executives disclose Merrill's gaping losses to shareholders?
 As the vote on the merger approached, Wachtell told the bank's executives that shareholders did not need to know about Merrill's losses, and needed to be notified only if the losses would be far worse than the fourth-quarter results at Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other peers, said the four people briefed on the matter. 
 Some of the documents the bank will submit on Friday will show communications between the bank and Wachtell in which they discussed analysts' expectations for other investment banks. 
 Mr. Lewis and his chief financial officer, Joe Price, conferred with Merrill executives, and they determined the losses were likely to be of the same scale as those at the other investment banks, these people said. In the wake of that conclusion, the bank did not send out a warning to its shareholders. 
 But there was some dissent within Bank of America, according to a person with knowledge of executives' discussions. Some deputies believed the bank should disclose Merrill's predicament before the shareholder vote anyway.
 Legal experts said they were surprised at the advice Wachtell gave Bank of America about Merrill's losses. 
 ''I'm taken aback by the advice,'' said Donald C. Langevoort, a professor at Georgetown Law. ''When shareholders are asked to vote, they deserve a fine-tuned picture and are not to be expected to piece together pieces of public knowledge, public awareness and economic awareness in order to make the right decision.''
 Charles Elson, a bank shareholder and professor of corporate governance at the University of Delaware, found Wachtell's advice defensible but disturbing.
 ''I think the shareholders are entitled to know everything that management knows on a vote of this size.'' he said. ''Let the investors decide. The losses might have been in line with Goldman and Morgan, but Bank of America wasn't acquiring Goldman or Morgan.''
 Several weeks after the shareholder vote, Goldman and Morgan Stanley reported their quarterly earnings. It then became clear that Merrill was performing far worse than its peers, these people said. It is unclear whether Bank of America at that point considered disclosing Merrill's losses, given that the shareholder vote was already over and the deal was just weeks from closing.
 On Dec. 17, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Price flew to Washington to meet with officials from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department. They traveled with talking points in hand that had been prepared by Wachtell. The first item on the page was a note suggesting that the executives should tell the government officials that Bank of America was considering backing out of the deal, said one of the people with knowledge of the matter.
 That talking point flew in the face of legal advice that Wachtell had earlier given the bank, that it was unlikely that Bank of America could get out of the merger given the terms of the deal. In particular, the law firm told the bank it probably could not end the deal even though the value of Merrill's assets were more degraded than first thought, the people said. The bank also considered trying to undo the merger based on concerns about Merrill's liquidity.
 Since the deal closed early this year, Mr. Herlihy has continued working with the bank, which has since hired two other law firms. The bank had kept the details of Wachtell's advice under wraps, and did not agree to send the investigators documents reflecting the advice until a few days ago, when it gave up its right to keep conversations between clients and their lawyers private. 
 Even as the bank waives that right, Wachtell has not given investigators its own in-house documents to investigators. Because Wachtell never provided its own internal documents to the bank, the law firm argues, it owns the documents, the four people familiar with the matter said. 
 ''We have not refused to provide any documents or information to the bank,'' said Mr. Anders, a partner at the firm.
 Legal experts said the law firm's advice would either make a case against Mr. Lewis and the bank, or weaken it. While Mr. Lewis relied on his lawyers' advice, corporate responsibility generally rests with the chief executive.
 ''It's hard to overstate how important it is knowing what they were told by their lawyers,'' said David Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. ''It will make it much easier to isolate who knew what, and who was on board with the decisions, and who wasn't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth Lewis, chief executive of Bank of America, says he will reimburse the bank for pay he has received since January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MERGERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); SUBPOENAS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



474 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Return of Record Paydays

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
A celebrated Goldman Sachs partner, Gus Levy, coined the maxim that long defined the bank, the savviest and most influential firm on Wall Street: ''Greedy, but long-term greedy.'' 
 But these days that old dictum is being truncated to just ''greedy'' by some Goldman critics. While many ordinary Americans are still waiting for an economic recovery, Goldman and its employees are enjoying one of the richest periods in the bank's 140-year history. 
 Goldman executives are perplexed by the resentment directed at their bank and contend the criticism is unjustified. But they find themselves in the uncomfortable position of defending Goldman's blowout profits and the outsize paydays that are the hallmark of its success. 
 For Goldman employees, it is almost as if the financial crisis never happened. Only months after paying back billions of taxpayer dollars, Goldman Sachs is on pace to pay annual bonuses that will rival the record payouts that it made in 2007, at the height of the bubble. In the last nine months, the bank set aside about $16.7 billion for compensation -- on track to pay each of its 31,700 employees close to $700,000 this year. Top producers are expecting multimillion-dollar paydays. 
 The latest tally came Thursday, when Goldman reported another set of robust results. But its strong financial showing -- a profit of $3.19 billion in the third quarter -- was overshadowed by Goldman's swelling bonus pool. Goldman set aside nearly half of its revenue to reward its employees, a common practice on Wall Street, even in this post-bailout era. 
 But despite Goldman's success or, perhaps, because of it, the bank has come to symbolize for many a return to wanton Wall Street excess. Even in 2008, the most tumultuous year in modern Wall Street history, Goldman employees reaped rewards that most people can only dream about. Goldman paid out $4.82 billion in bonuses last year, awarding 953 employees at least $1 million each and 78 executives $5 million or more. The rewards for 2009 will be far greater. 
 Goldman executives know they have a public opinion problem, and they are trying to figure out what to do about it -- as long as it does not involve actually cutting pay. 
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chairman and chief executive, finds himself in the unusual position of defending a successful company in a nation that normally celebrates success.
 Goldman said Thursday that it would donate $200 million to its charitable foundation (that figure represents 6 percent of its third-quarter profit, or about six days of earnings).
 Rumors are swirling on Wall Street that Goldman might donate even more money to charity, perhaps as much as $1 billion, in an effort to defuse public resentment directed at the bank. Mr. Blankfein has even urged his free-spending bankers to be mindful of conspicuous consumption. 
 Goldman is also weighing changes to some of its compensation practices. Its executives receive a significant portion of their total compensation in stock. But like other banks, it is considering increasing that portion for all employees, giving deferred payments and introducing provisions that would enable the bank to claw back bonuses if trades go wrong. 
 Mr. Blankfein laid out such ideas in a speech in Germany last month that drew wide attention on Wall Street. 
 Despite the news of Goldman's strong quarter, David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer, was on the defensive Thursday. Talk of bonuses, and whether they were justified, dominated what in another era might have been a celebratory call with the media. 
 ''We are very focused on what is going on in the world,'' Mr. Viniar replied to a barrage of questions about whether the bank should pay outsize bonuses in these hard economic times. ''We are focused on the economic climate. We are focused on what is going on with other people.''
 But he said Goldman had a duty to its employees and to retain staff. By paying big bonuses, he said, the bank was trying to make a difficult trade-off between ''being fair to our people who have done a remarkable job'' and ''what's going on in the world.''
 Goldman, Mr. Viniar said, was being unfairly singled out over its bonus culture. ''Yes, I think that is too big a focus,'' he said. ''I would prefer people to be focused on the success of our business, how well we're doing, and how well our people are performing.''
 Still, some outsiders wonder if Goldman, which is so adept at reading the markets, is misreading public opinion, and whether the gilded Goldman name will be tarnished by this episode. 
 Goldman is no different from most Wall Street firms: it rewards bankers and traders who make lots of money.
 ''They do it because they can,'' Michael Useem, professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, said of the bonuses. ''But strategic thinking requires that you think not only about trading but also about reputation and where the bank stands in the court of public opinion.''
 This much is indisputable: Goldman Sachs is minting money. Its third-quarter profits were powered in large part by aggressive trading in the fixed income and equity markets. 
 Its earnings were also bolstered by mark-ups in its own private equity stakes and other corporate investments, which have risen as markets have rallied this year. Its earnings from investment banking were down from the second quarter, it said, because of the seasonally weak summer months and because the second quarter had been enhanced by underwriting business as other banks had rushed to raise capital. 
 While Goldman has been a vocal proponent of reforming pay practices, the bank has not yet shown its hand and will only describe any major changes in its compensation structure when it announces final bonuses at the end of this year. Meanwhile, other banks, like Morgan Stanley, have moved ahead in reform, by introducing three-year clawback provisions, for example. 
 Brian Foley, a compensation consultant in White Plains, said of the possible reforms like delayed payments and clawback provisions: ''I definitely think they ought to be doing it, and I assume they will be doing it. They have got to arrange the chairs on the deck so things look different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman Sachs's chairman and chief executive, is having to defend his company's success.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B1)
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief. On Thursday, the bank said it would donate $200 million to its charitable foundation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B7) CHART: Just Like Old Times: Goldman Sachs compensation has returned to the levels before the financial crisis.(Source: Goldman Sachs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); BONUS PAY (76%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009



475 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Some Signs A Recession Is Ending Globally

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The worldwide recession appears to have ended, with surveys showing manufacturing activity is on the rise nearly everywhere.
 ''It is the emerging markets that are leading, with the U.S. following and Europe lagging,'' said Chris Williamson, the chief economist of Markit, a company that surveys manufacturers in many countries. 
 The surveys, conducted in the United States by the Institute of Supply Management and in other countries by Markit, measure not the level of manufacturing output but the way it is changing. The surveys have a reputation for showing turns in the economy, often before other indicators do.
 The September figures for manufacturing seemed to indicate that what had looked like a rapid recovery was slowing in the United States and Europe.
 But similar surveys of service companies appear to show growth accelerating in most countries, although not in the three European economies that Mr. Williamson thinks are still in recession; Spain, Ireland and Italy.
 The surveys ask companies if their business is doing better or worse than in the previous month, with the three most important questions relating to new orders, production and employment. The index is set so that 50 indicates business is unchanged from the previous month, while figures above that indicate growth and figures below show a decline. The higher the index, the more pervasive are reports of growth.
 In the accompanying charts, the index figures have been converted to show the number of points over or under 50 for each of 12 countries, from the end of 2007 through September. The September indexes for new orders, production and employment are also shown.
 While details vary, the slump was sharp in nearly every country, reflecting the sudden decline that came after Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008. That worsened a credit squeeze, which meant some companies had no choice but to cut back on everything they could, from inventories to marketing expenditures to jobs. Others, fearing that the economic outlook could become much worse, cut back voluntarily.
 It now appears that companies cut too much, and the surveys of manufacturing show that companies are expanding in most countries.
 Over all, the surveys indicate that the manufacturing sectors of China, Taiwan, South Korea and India had begun to grow by April, but that the United States did not follow suit until August.
 In Europe, France is reporting growth, and Britain is hovering near the midpoint, indicating the deterioration has stopped but growth has not yet begun. Although the German government estimates that its gross domestic product rose in the second quarter, the manufacturing survey indicates continued weakness in that country.
 New orders and production have turned positive everywhere but in the three European laggards, Spain, Ireland and Italy. Spain and Ireland have been badly hurt by collapses in real estate markets, which had boomed, in part, because of easy credit. Mr. Williamson attributed some of Italy's problems to a lack of confidence in its government's ability to deal with problems. 
 But employment continues to lag in most countries outside of Asia. Mr. Williamson said he estimated that total job losses in the major developed countries -- the United States, Britain, the euro zone and Japan -- bottomed out at 1.9 million a month in March and are now about 500,000 a month. While many companies are still hesitant to hire, he says he thinks employment will begin to grow by the end of this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers in a Sacramento factory. Manufacturing surveys indicate a global economic revival.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN JAMES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: The worldwide recession appears to be over in the United States and Asia, where surveys of manufacturers show their business is now expanding. But in Europe, the signs of recovery are muted. In the surveys, the results are reported with a score above 50 indicating improvement, and one of under 50 indicating a decline. These charts show the amount by which the number is above or below 50.
 In most countries, manufacturing output is improving, and so are new orders. But only in some Asian countries are there signs of a pickup in employment. The figures show the number of points each figure was over or under the neutral figure of 50 in September.(Source: Markit) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (93%); ITALY (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



476 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Dow Slips Back Below 10,000 After Earnings Reports Disappoint

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
On Wednesday, a blockbuster profit at the banking giant JPMorgan Chase sent the Dow Jones industrial average above 10,000 for the first time in a year. 
 On Friday, a loss at the struggling Bank of America yanked investors back to earth.
 Stocks fell broadly and the dollar and safe-haven government bonds regained some of the ground they had lost earlier in the week. 
 Bank of America disappointed investors by reporting a loss of $1 billion in the third quarter before accounting for dividends to preferred shareholders. When those dividend payments were included, the loss was $2.24 billion. 
 The bank's losses on home loans and consumer credit mirrored the broad troubles facing millions of Americans, who are struggling to pay bills and keep their homes as job losses pile up.
 Shares of big banks and regional lenders fell sharply, and Bank of America slumped more than 4 percent after its earnings fell short of expectations. 
 Financial stocks were the lead weights that dragged stock markets to decade lows in the winter, but they have rebounded sharply since March, powering the Dow's charge above 10,000 earlier this week. 
 Now, even as stronger banks like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan post billion-dollar profits on gains from their investment banking business and trading operations, losses at Bank of America and Citigroup cast a spotlight on the problems still facing financial companies.
 The Dow fell 67.03 points, or 0.67 percent, to 9,995.91, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 8.88 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,087.68. The Nasdaq composite fell 16.49 points, or 0.76 percent, to 2,156.80. 
 Despite a down day, Wall Street closed higher for the week. The Dow gained 1.3 percent for the week, and the S. & P. 500 rose 1.5 percent. The Nasdaq increased 0.8 percent.
 Friday's losses spread through the markets after General Electricsaid its profit fell 44 percent in the third quarter as its financing arm weighed on the company's overall performance. Shares of G.E. were off 4.2 percent.
 In other markets, the FTSE 100 in London fell 0.7 percent, the DAX in Frankfurt was off 1.5 percent and the CAC 40 in Paris dropped 1.5 percent.
 An unexpected drop in consumer sentiment also rattled investors. The Reuters/University of Michigan survey of consumer sentiment slipped to 69.4 in October, from 73.5 a month ago, reflecting consumers' worries about their personal finances.
 The weaker consumer numbers added to the more somber mood on Wall Street. Although banks are scooping up big fees from investment banking and stock and bond markets, the side of their business tilted to Main Street is still hurting under loan losses and defaults.
 But in a rosier report on the industrial sector, the Federal Reserve said that industrial production rose by 0.7 percent in September, a sign that factories were increasing their output and companies were making more consumer goods, business equipment and materials.
 An important measure of how much slack lingers in the economy showed that businesses were operating at a higher capacity. Capacity utilization rose to 70.5 percent last month from August.
 Interest rates fell as the slide in the stock market increased demand for Treasuries. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 12/32, to 101 24/32, and the yield fell to 3.41 percent from 3.46 percent late Thursday. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



477 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Rights Council Endorses U.N. Report on Gaza War, Sending It to Security Council

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
The United Nations Human Rights Council on Friday endorsed a report that details evidence of war crimes committed by the Israeli Army and Hamas militants during the Gaza war last winter.
 The council's vote in Geneva was, in part, an attempt to press both the Israelis and the Palestinians to conduct their own credible investigations into the war-crimes accusations. 
 But the Human Rights Council's resolution, by endorsing several dozen recommendations within the report, also threatened action by the United Nations Security Council and possibly the International Criminal Court should there be no serious internal investigations. 
 That is considered very unlikely, however, because the United States has a veto over the Security Council agenda. 
 Of the 47 members of the Human Rights Council, 25 supported the measure, 6 opposed it, 11 abstained and 5 cast no vote.
 The United States and Israel had warned beforehand that moving the report forward now would jeopardize attempts to restart peace talks between the Palestinians and the Israelis. President Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, had initially accepted delaying action on the report until March, but he reversed course and orchestrated the two-day special session in order to quiet domestic outrage over his initial stance. 
 ''Our objective is to succeed in bringing those who committed crimes from the Israeli side against our people to face justice,'' Riyad Mansour, the Palestinian ambassador, told reporters in New York. He noted that the report called on both Israel and the Palestinians to conduct transparent investigations. 
 Since the Palestinian diplomatic corps is appointed by Mr. Abbas, the leader of the Fatah faction, which lost Gaza to Hamas, its statements about investigations carry limited weight. But Hamas officials in Gaza have also said that they would investigate.
 Israel said that the 575-page report was already one-sided in singling out Israel for possible war crimes, but that the council's resolution proved even worse by failing to mention Hamas rockets that had been fired against Israeli civilians. The council has a long history of focusing on Israel, while ignoring human rights abuses in other member states like China and Saudi Arabia. Aharon Leshno Yaar, the Israeli ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, said the resolution approved on Friday fit that pattern. 
 ''There are still members of this council that had no interest in the report, no interest in human rights, no interest in self defense,'' he said. ''Many of the speakers over the past two days showed no genuine interest in the Israelis or Palestinians, other than ensuring that the glare of Geneva is never shined towards them.''
 The Palestinians had anticipated at least 33 votes when they first presented a similar resolution two weeks ago before withdrawing it, so support dropped markedly this week. A few nations that had been planning to abstain voted yes at the last minute after a clause condemning all attacks against civilians was added, diplomats said. 
 The United States, which was joined by five European nations in voting against the resolution, condemned it both for singling out Israel and for including a long section about the control of Jerusalem, land confiscation and settlement expansion. 
 ''This resolution goes far beyond even the initial scope of the Goldstone report into a discussion of elements that should be resolved in the context of permanent status negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis,'' Douglas M. Griffiths, the American charge d'affaires in Geneva, told the council.
 The report, which the Human Rights Council had commissioned, was created by a four-member panel led by the South African jurist Richard Goldstone.
 Britain and France did not vote at all, with each saying it had requested more time to work out a compromise resolution. China and Russia voted for the measure, although the Russian ambassador's speech detailed what he considered its many flaws. 
 The recommendations in the Goldstone report ask the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, to take the report to the Security Council, and the resolution requests that he report to the Human Rights Council next March, at its next regular session, on what actions the United Nations has taken to implement the report. His spokeswoman, Michele Montas, said he was studying the request. 
 Diplomats said they considered both requests slightly unusual, because the Human Rights Council reports to the General Assembly, not the Security Council. The General Assembly is also expected to take up a discussion of the report. 
 Mr. Goldstone was once the lead prosecutor for war crimes in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. 
 Although his report condemned rocket attacks by Palestinian armed groups against Israeli civilians, it concentrated mainly on Israel's treatment of the civilian Palestinian population in the Gaza Strip. 
 The report described the Israeli military assault on Gaza as ''a deliberately disproportionate attack designed to punish, humiliate and terrorize a civilian population, radically diminish its local economic capacity both to work and to provide for itself, and to force upon it an ever increasing sense of dependency and vulnerability.'' 
 The report did not catalog the entire three-week war, which ended on Jan. 18, instead singling out 36 cases that it said constituted a representative sample. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); WAR CRIMES (91%); HAMAS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); AL FATAH (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); VETO (75%); APPROVALS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); HAMAS (84%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



478 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: 'Mad Men' and the Thrill of Other People's Misery in Sour Times

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
During the Great Depression, America entertained itself with Busby Berkeley musicals, movies about the madcap adventures of the rich and other happy escapism. It is not exactly a trend, but one well-watched and critically acclaimed television show is doing the opposite. In tough economic times, the advertising-biz drama ''Mad Men'' is offering beleaguered Americans heaping helpings of other people's misery.
 Set in the advertising world of the 1960s, ''Mad Men'' is stunning to look at -- a Camelot-era parade of smartly dressed professionals lounging around on midcentury modern furniture. 
 The writers of ''Mad Men,'' however, are telling an anti-Camelot version of the era. In the well-appointed offices of the advertising agency Sterling Cooper, some of the major ad campaigns have included Richard Nixon's 1960 presidential race and efforts -- a year before the surgeon general's fateful warning -- to persuade Americans to buy more cigarettes. Racism is alive and well in the South, where four little girls have just been killed in the Birmingham church bombing, and also in the North, where black people are largely invisible. The oppression of women is so raw that the agency's strong and self-possessed office manager, Joan Holloway, was raped at the office by her fiance.
 In this, the third season of ''Mad Men,'' the major characters' trajectories have all taken a decidedly grim turn. Don Draper, the protagonist, is getting kicked around at Sterling Cooper and beaten up by his mercurial patron, Conrad Hilton. Salvatore Romano, the agency's likable art director, is unjustly and cruelly fired. Betty Draper, Don's beautiful but joyless wife, spends her time caring for children she can barely tolerate and considering an affair. Carla, the Drapers' black maid, is forced to stand by silently while Betty tells her it might be too soon for civil rights.
 The characters who once shined brightest now seem headed toward despair or oblivion. Joan married her rapist-fiance, whose medical career is in free fall, and has been forced to work in a department store. The biggest rising star, an oily young British executive who seemed poised to take control of Sterling Cooper, fell to earth when his foot was mauled by a secretary riding through the office on a lawn mower.
 The central character, Don Draper, was always an uneasy combination of hero and anti-hero, but his archer qualities are winning out. In the office, he has been capable of acts of nobility, but lately he has exhibited a vicious streak. He tersely informed Peggy Olson, his sometimes-protege, that there is nothing she does that he could not live without. When he fired Mr. Romano, whose secret homosexuality he was aware of, he threw in a nasty gibe about the failings of ''you people.''
 At home, Don has often been an attentive husband, but never a faithful one. Now he has taken his philandering closer to home, paying a late-night visit to his daughter's teacher, an overture that seems destined to end badly.
 For many viewers, ''Mad Men'' is a window on their parents' world -- an era of three-martini lunches, gas-guzzling domestic cars and boundless optimism about America's place in the world. John F. Kennedy was in the White House, and women were choosing between rival style icons Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy and Marilyn Monroe.
 To a generation beaten down by skyrocketing unemployment, plunging retirement savings and mounting home foreclosures, ''Mad Men'' offers the schadenfreude-filled message that their predecessors were equally unhappy -- and that the bleakness meter in American life has always been set on high.
 Escapism makes a lot of intuitive sense -- whisk people away from their cares with stories of a better life. And there is plenty of it in today's movies and in the Brangelina celebrity culture.
 But there's some scientific support for the gloomier approach of ''Mad Men.'' Stanley Schachter was a Columbia psychologist who conducted a famous experiment years ago in which young women were told they would be given electric shocks. The more anxious they were about the shocks, the more they told researchers they wanted to wait with other people for the experiment to start. They did not want to wait with just anyone, it turned out -- they wanted to be with people who faced the same shocks. ''Misery doesn't love just any kind of company,'' Schachter said, ''it loves only miserable company.''
 For people worried about the Great Recession, and the uncertainty of what is coming next, the characters of ''Mad Men'' are good company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); RACE & RACISM (67%); BOMBINGS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (70%) ALABAMA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Mad Men (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



479 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: The View From Inside A Depression

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
''Dow at 10,000 as Crisis Ebbs''
 -- Wall Street Journal headline on Thursday 
 In January 1931, a lawyer named Benjamin Roth, 38 years old, solidly Republican, a solo practitioner in Youngstown, Ohio, decided to start a diary. Realizing that he was ''living through an historic thing that will long be remembered'' -- as he put it in one early entry -- he wanted to keep a record for posterity. 
 Mr. Roth's diaries have just been published in book form -- ''The Great Depression: A Diary'' -- edited by his son Daniel, who worked in his father's law practice for many years, and James Ledbetter, the editor of The Big Money, a financial site run by Slate. It is an eye-opening read, though not necessarily in the ways you might think. 
 Because it was written in the 1930s, Mr. Roth's diary is not the kind of tell-all we've come to expect in this less restrained age. Although he mentions repeatedly the struggles of lawyers and other ''professional men'' during the depression -- Mr. Roth always uses the lower-case ''d'' -- he never shares how his family struggled through it, or how he was able to send his daughter to college in 1937. (Daniel Roth told me that his father, who died in 1978, later divulged that he had had a good life insurance policy, which he borrowed against to keep food on the table.) 
 Instead, every few days -- or every few weeks during some stretches -- Mr. Roth jotted down his thoughts and fears as the Depression deepened. ''Banks are absolutely terrible in their insistence on payments of notes and mortgages,'' he wrote in 1931. ''It is the old story of lending you an umbrella when the sun is shining and then demanding it back when it rains.''
 He recounts painful conversations with friends and acquaintances who had accumulated some wealth by speculating in the stock market, and then lost everything when stocks plummeted and they couldn't meet margin calls. He is obsessed with the stock market; he is constantly noting the prices of the blue chips of his day, and his writing shows him to have the instincts of a good value investor, a term that hadn't yet been invented. But, as he also constantly points out, he never has any money to invest, much to his chagrin. 
 Mr. Roth is horrified when the local banks fail (''I still cannot believe that the Dollar Bank -- the Gibraltar of Youngstown -- has closed its doors'') and points out that even after the banks reopen, customers aren't allowed to withdraw more than a small fraction of their savings. He explains how entrepreneurs with money buy up people's frozen passbook accounts for 50 cents on the dollar and how barter and scrip come to replace the money people no longer have.
 Events that we know about from the history books he was reacting to in real time. He was furious to learn, thanks to a series of highly publicized Congressional hearings, that some of the nation's most prominent bankers did terrible things during the Roaring Twenties. (''By manipulation the officers boosted and unloaded on the public their own stock in National City Bank as high as $650 per share when its book value was only $60.'') But he makes no mention of the Securities and Exchange Commission, whose birth was the direct result of those incendiary hearings.
 Mr. Roth is skeptical of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal programs, and worries that the president's fondness for deficit spending will ultimately be disastrous. He keeps thinking inflation is right around the corner. He worries about the rise of Hitler. He writes about gangs of farmers who threaten sheriffs, judges and anyone else who tries to foreclose on a farm. He watches the rise of unions, another trend he finds troubling.
 Mr. Roth, of course, is writing without the benefit of hindsight. Today, when we look back on the Great Depression, we have a clear narrative in mind -- a narrative that has been fine-tuned this last year or so, as we've re-examined it through the prism of the current crisis. On Wednesday, for instance, I attended a forum at Columbia University, where one of the speakers was the historian Alan Brinkley, who has written several fine books about the Depression.
 ''The only way to break the economic deadlock brought on by the Depression was to shock it back to life,'' said Mr. Brinkley, who then added that for all of Roosevelt's willingness to experiment and spend, the reason the Depression lasted so long was that the president didn't spend enough. 
 That, of course, is what most people believe today -- and that dogma is the reason the government last year threw literally trillions of dollars at the banking system to keep it from collapsing. 
 Mr. Roth's diaries have no narrative. But they are compelling reading nonetheless, because they force readers to reflect on both the similarities and the differences between then and now. What particularly struck me was watching Mr. Roth, in his diaries, grope from day to day, and year to year, searching for an answer that wouldn't be clear until long afterward. He's like the proverbial blind man who feels an elephant's trunk and thinks elephants look like a rope. Not unlike the way we are today, as we grope our way through our own financial crisis.
 Mr. Roth's inflation fears are one good example. A rock-ribbed Republican, he can't understand why Roosevelt's New Deal programs -- and the spending they require -- don't bring with them the kind of scary inflation that had occurred in Germany after World War I. He keeps waiting for it, predicting it, ever fearful that it will make an awful economic situation even worse. He is baffled that inflation remained subdued. He can't get outside of his mental framework and see -- as we can today -- that Roosevelt's programs are the only things keeping the economy alive.
 But an even more wrenching example of his groping in the dark is his desperate wish for the Depression to end. His diaries are filled with tentative predictions, usually based on experts' opinions, that the worst is over. Yet every time he thinks that, he turns out to be wrong. He begins studying the charts of previous Depressions to see how long they lasted. ''I have done considerable reading about the depressions of 1837 and 1873 and I am struck by the similarity to the present crisis,'' he writes in early 1933. ''If history repeats itself then we still have 2 or 3 years of bad times ahead.''
 At various points in the early 1930s, the stock market spikes -- and he starts to think it's a good time to buy stocks. Indeed, he writes, many experts are advising people to get into the market, and some of his wealthier friends do so. But six months later, the experts invariably turn out to be wrong, and his friends wind up losing their money. During the Depression, optimism was ruinous.
 And yet -- and this is something we tend to forget -- between 1935 and 1937, business began to boom again, and a sense of growing prosperity took hold in the country. In Youngstown, the steel and rubber factories were operating at near capacity, just as they had in the 1920s. On Christmas Eve in 1936, Mr. Roth wrote: ''Just came back thru the stores on my lunch hour. People are spending like drunken sailors.''
 A week later, he added, ''It seems to me that the time has come where we can formally and officially announce that the depression of 1929 has ended.''
 This, of course, turned out to be completely wrong. That September, the market crashed, and the Depression took hold once again. Today, most economists believe that the downturn was caused by Roosevelt, who turned off the spigot too soon, trying to balance the budget instead of continuing to pump money into the economy. Not understanding the reason for the downturn, Mr. Roth was deeply discouraged by the reappearance of the Depression. ''It is terrible to contemplate that we are in the 9th year of depression and still cannot see clearly ahead,'' he wrote in March 1939.
 A few months later, he wrote: ''As I re-read some of the predictions made by outstanding economists in past few years, I must laugh. They were all wrong. None of them foresaw the 1937-1939 collapse and many predicted inflation before this.'' Mr. Roth comes to the conclusion that relying on experts is a waste of time.
 Today, we're all a little like Benjamin Roth, asking questions we don't know the answer to, and wondering, as he did 70 years ago, whether the crisis is, indeed, over. 
 Maybe the fact that the Dow crossed the 10,000 mark this week really does signal that the crisis has ebbed, as The Journal put it on Thursday. Or maybe the poor earnings by Bank of America and Citigroup this week suggest we're merely in the eye of the hurricane, as 1935 and 1936 turned out to be. 
 There are plenty of experts who will tell you the worst is over, and I hope they're right. But as Mr. Roth discovered in the 1930s, the experts can't predict the future any better than the rest of us. When you are living through a financial crisis, all you can do is wait and see. Governments take action they hope will have the desired effect -- but who knows if they really will? It only becomes clear much later, and far too late for those of us living through it.
 On that same day in early 1937 that Mr. Roth mistakenly wrote that the Depression had ended, he concluded that instead of relying on experts, the only proper course was to ''use your own judgment and do your own thinking.'' 
 In the fall of 2009, those remain words to live by.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benjamin Roth, the diarist who watched the economy, and his family on Thanksgiving in 1937.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROTH FAMILY)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); INSURANCE POLICIES (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



480 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Shale and Our Water

 BODY:
New York State's environmental regulators have proposed rules to govern drilling in the Marcellus Shale -- a subterranean layer of rock curving northward from West Virginia through Ohio and Pennsylvania to New York's southern tier. The shale contains enormous deposits of natural gas that could add to the region's energy supplies and lift New York's upstate economy. If done carefully -- and in carefully selected places -- drilling should cause minimal environmental harm.
 But regulators must amend the rules to bar drilling in the New York City watershed: a million acres of forests and farmlands whose streams supply the reservoirs that send drinking water to eight million people. Accidental leaks could threaten public health and require a filtration system the city can ill afford. 
 Natural gas is vital to the nation's energy needs and can be an important bridge between dirty coal and renewable alternatives. The process of extracting it, however, is not risk-free. Known as hydraulic fracturing, it involves shooting a mix of water, sand and chemicals -- many of them highly toxic -- into the ground at very high pressure to break down the rock formations and free the gas. 
 The technique is used in 90 percent of the oil and gas operations in the United States. And while most drilling occurs without incident, ''fracking'' has been implicated in hundreds of cases of impaired or polluted drinking water supplies in states from Alabama to Wyoming. 
 The dangers are particularly acute in the Marcellus Shale, which, unlike the relatively shallow formations found elsewhere, lies miles underground. Getting the gas out will require far more water and heavy doses of chemicals. While the rules would require drillers to take special precautions in the watershed, there are too many points -- from the delivery of the fluid to the drilling site to the removal of spent fluid after it surfaces -- where poisoned water could escape into the water supplies.
 Quarantining the watershed also makes economic sense. The shale contains only one-tenth of the gas in the southern tier. One big accident could undo everything the city and state have done -- buying up property, creating buffer zones around the reservoirs -- to protect the watershed from development and pollution. 
 State officials worry that if they deny landowners the right to lease the mineral resources under their property -- 70 percent of the watershed is privately owned -- they will face expensive ''takings'' claims. But the state has a right and responsibility to prevent drilling that poses a clear danger to public health. 
 The state insists it has made a good-faith effort to assess the hazards, and its 800-page report is replete with scientific analysis. But it is the state's analysis. What the state has not done, and what it must do, is give those who have serious doubts about drilling in the watershed a fair chance to state their case. 
 New York City's acting environmental commissioner, Steven Lawitts, has warned of ''chronic and acute impacts to water quality.'' Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and the Manhattan borough president, Scott Stringer, have asked the state for extensive public hearings. Mayor Michael Bloomberg has commissioned an independent scientific study of the risks to the watershed.
 A fair review will not be possible unless the state's absurdly quick Nov. 30 deadline for public comment is extended. The mayor's study will not even be completed until mid-December. It is dangerously irresponsible to rush this decision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); POISONINGS (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); WATER QUALITY (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



481 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: The Unemployed Wait

 BODY:
More than a million jobless Americans are in danger of losing benefits by the end of the year unless Congress passes an extension of unemployment insurance. The House has acted, but the Senate, which has a better bill, has been bogged down by obstruction from Republicans. In these extraordinarily hard times, Congress should extend this vital safety net without further delay. 
 Unemployment insurance, one of the great legacies of the New Deal, is intended to provide laid-off workers with an income while they look for their next job. With the unemployment rate at nearly 10 percent nationally -- and at 10.3 percent in New York City -- it has been hard to line up that next job. The Department of Labor recently reported that there were more than six people looking for every opening.
 There are now more than five million Americans -- roughly one-third of the unemployed -- who have been out of work for six months or longer, according to the National Employment Law Project, a record since data was first recorded in 1948. 
 Benefits vary by state, but most cut off benefits after 26 weeks. Congress has extended benefits several times, most recently in February, but for many workers they are again running out.
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, and other Democrats have introduced a bill that would extend unemployment insurance by up to an additional 14 weeks in all 50 states, with another six weeks for states with a jobless rate above 8.5 percent. It is an improvement on a bill passed by the House, which would extend benefits only in states with unemployment above 8.5 percent.
 February's extension, which included a $25-a-week increase in benefits, kept 800,000 people out of poverty, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Putting more money in the pockets of the unemployed provided much-needed stimulus for the entire economy. 
 Every day that the Republicans continue to block an extension -- fighting over amendments to the bill or delaying a vote -- means thousands more Americans pushed closer to the edge of despair.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



482 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; RYE JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: A Believer in Heroism, To Jews' Lasting Gratitude

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: RYE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The walls of Dr. Tina Strobos's light-filled apartment here are dappled not only with paintings but also with the many plaques she has received from Jewish organizations, even though she is not Jewish.
Dr. Strobos, a sturdy 89, is honored every so often for the quietly valiant things she did almost 70 years ago as a medical student during the German occupation of the Netherlands: working with her mother, she hid more than 100 Jews who passed through their three-story rooming house in Amsterdam.
 That sanctuary, which included an attic lair that was never discovered, was just a 10-minute stroll from a more famous hideout: Anne Frank's at 263 Prinsengracht. Indeed, the question of why the Franks did not have an escape hatch for when the Gestapo barged in gets her fairly worked up. 
 At her home, the Jews were stowed away on the upper floors with quick access to the attic, which had a secret compartment for two or three people to cram into. ''A carpenter came with a toolbox and said: 'I'm a carpenter from the underground. Show me the house, and I'll build a hiding place,' '' she recalled. 
 There was an alarm bell on the second floor so she or her mother, Marie Schotte, could alert those above. They drilled their fugitives in how to scramble out a window to a roof and make their way to an adjoining school, which was not likely to be raided.
 Dr. Strobos, who will be honored on Monday by the Holocaust and Human Rights Education Center, based in Westchester, retired in May as a psychiatrist and retains a nobility of manner that suggests a life she feels has been largely well lived. Her memory is keen enough to retrieve the tasty details that bring her escapades to life. 
 She recalled carrying news and ration stamps by bicycle -- at great risk, and often cold and hungry -- to Jews hidden on farms outside the city. She also ferried radios and stashed boxes of pilfered guns for the Dutch resistance. She was seized or questioned nine times by the Gestapo and was once hurled against a wall and knocked unconscious. 
 Why would she take such gambles for people she sometimes barely knew?
 ''It's the right thing to do,'' she said with nonchalance. ''Your conscience tells you to do it. I believe in heroism, and when you're young, you want to do dangerous things.''
 But such an outlook has an origin, what Donna Cohen, the Holocaust Center's executive director, calls ''learned behavior.'' Dr. Strobos comes from a family of socialist atheists who took in Belgian refugees during World War I and hid German and Austrian refugees before World War II. Dr. Strobos had close Jewish friends and, for a time, a Jewish fiance, Abraham Pais, who went on to become a particle physicist, though not her husband.
 The Nazis required Dutch Jews to wear stars and carry identity cards stamped with a J. So Dr. Strobos patched together false papers by swiping documents from gentile guests and inserting new photographs and fingerprints. As roundups increased, her six-bedroom row house, at 282 Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal, became a way station; most Jews stayed briefly, until the underground network could find them more durable refuges. 
 ''We never hid more than four or five at a time,'' she said. ''We didn't have enough food.''
 Among the people who lodged with her was her close friend Tirtsah Van Amerongen, a blonde who passed for a gentile, and her sister and brother-in-law. She hid an Orthodox couple with five children, who brought their own kosher food. She helped Jews in other hideouts, including a prominent impressionist, Martin Monnickendam, who painted her portrait, which now hangs in her apartment, at a residence for older people.
 ''You can see he's a turmoiled type,'' she said slyly as she showed off the portrait.
 The Gestapo banged on her door many times, she said, sometimes accusing her of concealing Jews and searching the rooms for two or three hours. A Dutch spy in the Gestapo headquarters would sometimes alert her to an impending raid. 
 '' 'You're going to have a visitor tomorrow,' he would say,'' she remembered. ''I never knew who he was, but he was always right.''
 Erudite and fluent in German, with a talent for striking a sweetly innocent pose, she learned to charm the Germans.
 When she suspected that the Gestapo knew that a prominent factory owner had lived in her home for a year, she surrendered his name but insisted that she believed he had been a gentile.
 ''Some Jews are like violets in the woods,'' the Gestapo agent advised her. ''They hide by having blue eyes and blond hair.''
 Another time the Gestapo told her that it always identified Jews by the look of the inside corners of their eyes.
 ''My mother and I were not laughing, but my God, they were really nuts,'' she said.
 During the five years working for the underground, she took interludes to study medical books at a hospital.
 ''You have to be a little bit selfish and look after yourself; otherwise you just die inside, you burn out,'' she once told an interviewer. ''There's just so much you can do for other people.''
 After the war, she and her first husband, Robert Strobos, a medical student, traveled to New York on a Fulbright scholarship, and she studied child psychiatry. They divorced in 1964. In 1967 she married Walter Chudson, an economist, and they lived on a saltwater inlet in Larchmont, N.Y. She has two sons and a daughter by her first husband and two stepchildren.
 In the decades since her wartime experience, she has spoken out on issues like the torture of terrorists, which she argues is not only cruel but also ineffective.
 ''Even when they scared me to death and hurt me, it confirmed me that I should not say anything to them,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Tina Strobos in her Westchester apartment, and at far left in 1941 with Abraham Pais and her mother, Marie Schotte, with whom she housed scores of Jews. Their home in Amsterdam is at right in the photo at left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); HOLOCAUST (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); REFUGEES (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); WORLD WAR I (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) NETHERLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (73%); AUSTRIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



483 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Phillies and Dodgers, Drama Kings

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
With the Yankees-Angels American League Championship Series threatened by a forecast with more black clouds and gloom than an Oakland Raiders' fan club meeting, it's a good thing the National League is providing more than its share of drama and chaos. How do you top -- in one game nonetheless -- 22 hits, 10 walks, 15 runners stranded, three wild pitches by one pitcher in one inning, a four-hour game, a major debate over Joe Torre's managing, the Dodgers' owner announcing a potentially franchise-rocking divorce the day before the series and possibly most inexplicably, the magic reincarnation of Chan Ho Park?
 Answer: You play Game 2! 
 As Jayson Stark writes on ESPN.com, if it's a crazy game with bizarre subplots, the Phillies are definitely involved. You can watch the top five highlights here and marvel at the game's twists and turns, or join the people lauding the return of Phillies closer Brad Lidge from baseball purgatory -- among those is SI.com's Ted Keith -- or questioning Torre's decision to stick with starter Clayton Kershaw too long in the fifth. Bill Plaschke of the Los Angeles Times and Mark Kriegel of Foxsports.com line up to bash him for that. Scott Miller of CBSSports.com pauses to ask one simple question: Chan Ho Park? (Hint: he has not pitched in 29 days, has this set of declining career stats and yet somehow channeled Goose Gossage for a night.)
 On the Dodgers' side, there is a terrific sideshow in the divorce of the Frank and Jamie McCourt, who are already tussling over who owns the Dodgers, and as Lee Jenkins of SI.com writes, if the Dodgers think this will not affect the team, they should chat with a few San Diego Padres.
 The Yankees-Angels series will have to work hard to top a lot of that and of course, they would actually have to play. The weather forecast in New York is grim and spawns this wonderful headline on a Yahoo.com blog: ''Yankees' weather is cloudy with a chance of Joba.'' Waiting for that to play out, Yahoo.com's Gordon Edes takes a look at the five franchises significantly impacted by Mark Teixeira over the past three years. He is now contributing to something unique for the Yankees, a new light-hearted team chemistry, as described by WSJ.com.
 Should rain or locusts (watch out Joba!) postpone the A.L.C.S., you may mentally flip over to college football, which got a jump this week with Cincinnati's gutsy victory over South Florida despite losing its starting quarterback, and moves onto the crucial Notre Dame-Southern California game on Saturday. It's mostly crucial for Notre Dame's future, writes CBSSports.com's Dennis Dodd, and the first step for Notre Dame, writes Rick Morrissey of the Chicago Tribune, is actually believing they can do it. In that, they might be alone.
 The N.F.L. finds itself mired in debate over votes of confidence. Dallas's owner Jerry Jones gave Coach Wade Phillips one, or just said he would not fire him during the season, and the Redskins players wanted one for Coach Jim Zorn from the owner Dan Snyder and did not get it. The teams off to good starts, though, should not be feeling too comfortable, writes Don Banks on SI.com, because sometimes that just makes for a steeper plunge. The 4-1 Bengals are already getting a dose of reality, mostly economic, because their home game on Sunday is not yet sold out and could be blacked out on local television.
 Today's N.B.A.'s woes are health and mental-health related, with the Cavaliers star LeBron James being treated as if he has flu of the H1N1 variety, and Stephon Marbury announcing he will try to inflict himself on the N.B.A. again next season. 
 With many Canadians believing N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman is a form of affliction, he is apparently trying to soothe some hurt feelings north of the border by talking future Canadian expansion.
 That came on the same day as the other Canadian sports news of Thursday: the unveiling of the medals that will be given out at the Vancouver Olympics, which immediately drew a host of colorful descriptions, including, ''microwaved Frisbees'' by Yahoo.com's Chris Chase.
 Perhaps they have magic powers. And can make sense of the Phillies-Dodgers series.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WEATHER (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (76%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (68%); ESPN INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (84%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (84%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



484 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Theology From Classroom to Jailhouse

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Weak from a respiratory infection and solitary confinement, Luis Barrios was waiting in line to see the doctor at a federal prison in Lower Manhattan one day last spring when a reminder of his outside life appeared. It was a group of graduate students in criminal justice, taking a tour of the Metropolitan Correctional Facility.
 Priest, professor and provocateur, the Rev. Dr. Luis Barrios had landed inside the jail with a two-month sentence for trespassing onto a military base in Georgia in a protest against a training facility there for soldiers from Central and South America. From the barricades to the bastille, Professor Barrios was traveling territory familiar from what he estimates are about 65 arrests for various forms of civil disobedience. 
 The graduate students hailed from Professor Barrios's academic home, John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Professor Barrios recognized one who had been part of his study-abroad program in the Dominican Republic. Later in his sentence, he met a correctional officer who had taken one of his courses.
 Those odd reunions attested to a larger anomaly. Professor Barrios is an unreconstructed leftist and a devotee of liberation theology who has tenure and indeed leads a department at a college that specializes in law enforcement and grants more than 60 percent of its bachelor's degrees in the fields of criminal justice and forensic psychology.
 From an office adorned with a lithograph of Che Guevara and a bookshelf altar to his pantheon -- Mother Jones, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X and Oscar Romero, the assassinated Salvadoran archbishop -- Professor Barrios functions at John Jay in a simultaneous exercise of academic freedom and internal subversion.
 ''I'm one of those people,'' Professor Barrios, 57, put it in a recent interview, ''who thinks you can make revolution from the inside.''
 Revolution notwithstanding, he has consistently made a stir. In the early 1990s, the Episcopal bishop suspended Professor Barrios as the pastor of St. Ann's Church in the South Bronx after Professor Barrios had begun a needle-exchange program to combat the spread of AIDS and given his blessing to same-sex couples.
 At John Jay, Professor Barrios stands at a critical remove from the school's traditional curriculum and at a religious distance from professors who might share his radical politics but not his belief in God. ''A Christian for socialism,'' Professor Barrios says in describing himself.
 ''Luis stands in a long tradition of scholar-activist,'' said Jeremy Travis, John Jay's president. ''And in a school concerned with justice writ large, the contribution he brings is very important. He has a passion and life experience that's very important in the academic exercise.''
 Professor Barrios's personal journey began in Santurce, P.R., in a family that he says was ravaged by drugs and ultimately AIDS. Paradoxically, the man who now has a placard on his office door saying ''Stop Police Brutality'' credits the Police Athletic League with helping to rescue him from the streets with a mixture of sports, field trips and homework checks.
 The other transforming influence, Professor Barrios recalls, was a local Roman Catholic priest, Father Alberto. When Luis Barrios was 13 and thinking about entering the seminary, the priest gave him two books, a Bible and Karl Marx's ''Das Kapital,'' and met him for study sessions every Friday afternoon.
 By his late teens, Professor Barrios came to realize that his desire to have a family made the Catholic priesthood an impossible path, so he converted to the Episcopal Church as the closest liturgical equivalent. In 1990, having already earned a doctorate in clinical psychology, Professor Barrios received his divinity degree from New York Theological Seminary.
 Along the way, he read deeply in liberation theology, which believes that Christians should be actively aiding the oppressed, including through political efforts. He studied the work of Gustavo Gutierrez, a Peruvian Catholic who wrote the definitive text ''A Theology of Liberation,'' and he found himself deeply moved by the example of Archbishop Romero, a critic of El Salvador's right-wing government who was murdered in 1980 just after celebrating Mass. 
 The writings of two American scholars, James Cone and Rosemary Radford Rutherford, introduced Professor Barrios to variations of liberation theology centered on race and sex, rather than solely economic class.
 In Professor Barrios's hands, whether at church or at college, theory takes on a decidedly visceral cast. For a churchman, he curses like a stevedore. While his curriculum vitae delineates the academic publications and research grants that define status in higher education, his classroom lessons feature political analyses, digressions and diatribes that make any course of his, regardless of its official title, Barrios 101. 
 What is undeniable is that he grabs and holds a class's attention -- even if, as one former student put it last spring on the Web site RateMyProfessor.com, ''This semester I didn't see too much of him, seeing as he was in jail.'' 
 Jorge Minier, a 23-year-old senior at John Jay and a police cadet, said he had signed up for Professor Barrios's classes on drug policy and South America's ''new left'' just to see what all the buzz was about.
 Mr. Minier has now been sufficiently captivated to sign up with a dozen other students to protest with Professor Barrios in November at the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, a facility previously and more notoriously named the School of the Americas. It was Professor Barrios's arrest at a similar protest in late 2008 that led to his stay at the Metropolitan Correctional Center.
 One time in the 1990s, having been criticized by his bishop for declaring in a speech that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani could ''go to hell,'' Professor Barrios considered renouncing his vows. ''Then there's a moment,'' he recalled, ''when you say to yourself, 'Fire me if you want. But I'm not giving you a free ticket.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The ''On Religion'' column on Saturday, about the Rev. Dr. Luis Barrios, a leftist who is a tenured professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, misstated the surname of a scholar whose writings introduced him to liberation theology. She is Rosemary Radford Ruether, not Rutherford.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rev. Luis Barrios, an Episcopal priest and professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); CURRICULA (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (77%); DRUG POLICY (76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); FORENSICS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); AIDS POLICY (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (72%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



485 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Helps Revive Banks, And Bonuses

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Even as the economy continues to struggle, much of Wall Street is minting money -- and looking forward again to hefty bonuses. 
 Many Americans wonder how this can possibly be. How can some banks be prospering so soon after a financial collapse, even as legions of people worry about losing their jobs and their homes?
 It may come as a surprise that one of the most powerful forces driving the resurgence on Wall Street is not the banks but Washington. Many of the steps that policy makers took last year to stabilize the financial system -- reducing interest rates to near zero, bolstering big banks with taxpayer money, guaranteeing billions of dollars of financial institutions' debts -- helped set the stage for this new era of Wall Street wealth. 
 Titans like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase are making fortunes in hot areas like trading stocks and bonds, rather than in the ho-hum business of lending people money. They also are profiting by taking risks that weaker rivals are unable or unwilling to shoulder -- a benefit of less competition after the failure of some investment firms last year. 
 So even as big banks fight efforts in Congress to subject their industry to greater regulation -- and to impose some restrictions on executive pay -- Wall Street has Washington to thank in part for its latest bonanza. 
 ''All of this is facilitated by the Federal Reserve and the government, who really want financial institutions to get back to lending,'' said Gary Richardson, a research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. ''But we have just shown them that they can have the most frightening things happen to them, and we will throw trillions of dollars to protect them. I have big concerns about that.''
 Not all banks are doing so well. Giants like Citigroup and Bank of America, whose fortunes are tied to the ups-and-downs of ordinary consumers, are struggling to turn themselves around, as are many regional banks.
 But the decline of certain institutions, along with the outright collapse of once-vigorous competitors like Lehman Brothers, has consolidated the nation's financial power in fewer hands. The strong are now able to wring more profits from the financial markets and charge higher fees for a wide range of banking services. 
 ''They are able to charge more for all kinds of services because companies need banks and investment banks more now, and there are fewer strong ones to help them,'' said Douglas J. Elliott of the Brookings Institution.
 A year after the crisis struck, many of the industry's behemoths -- those institutions deemed too big to fail -- are, in fact, getting bigger, not smaller. For many of them, it is business as usual. Over the last decade the financial sector was the fastest-growing part of the economy, with two-thirds of growth in gross domestic product attributable to incomes of workers in finance.
 Now, the industry has new tools at its disposal, courtesy of the government. 
 With interest rates so low, banks can borrow money cheaply and put those funds to work in lucrative ways, whether using the money to make loans to companies at higher rates, or to speculate in the markets. Fixed-income trading -- an area that includes bonds and currencies -- has been particularly profitable. 
 ''Robust trading results led the way,'' said Howard Chen, a banking analyst at Credit Suisse, describing the latest profits.
 To prevent a catastrophic financial collapse that would have sent shock waves through the economy, the government injected billions of dollars into banks. Some large institutions, like Goldman and Morgan, have since repaid their bailout money. But most of the industry still enjoys other forms of government support, which is helping to stoke profits. 
 Goldman Sachs and its perennial rival Morgan Stanley were allowed to transform themselves into old-fashioned bank holding companies. That switch gave them access to cheap funding from the Federal Reserve, which had been unavailable to them. 
 Those two banks and others like JPMorgan were also allowed to issue tens of billions of dollars of bonds that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures bank deposits. With the F.D.I.C. standing behind them, the banks could borrow the money on highly advantageous terms. While some have since issued bonds on their own, they nonetheless enjoy the benefits of their cheap financing. 
 Granted, banks are also benefiting from a stabilizing economy. The fear that gripped the markets earlier this year, when doomsayers predicted a second Great Depression, has largely dissipated. Stocks, corporate bonds, even risky corporate i.o.u.'s -- have all rallied from their bear market lows, some spectacularly so. The Dow Jones industrial average has soared 50 percent this year, and touched 10,000 this week for the first time since the crisis. 
 Banks that had marked down the value of the assets on their books during the dark days of the crisis are now enjoying a rebound in the value of many of those assets. 
 ''Confidence has returned,'' said Shubh Saumya, a financial services specialist at the Boston Consulting Group. ''Some of the assets that bankers wrote down last year in the midst of the crisis, now they have got some of that back.''
 As the number of banks has dwindled, the survivors are moving into the void left by rivals that are either dead or limping and unwilling to take risks. 
 A big reason for Goldman Sachs's blowout profits this year has been the willingness of its traders to take big risks -- they have put more money on the line while other banks that suffered last year have reined in such moves. Executives say there are big strategic gaps opening up between banks on Wall Street that are taking on more risks, and those that are treading a safer path. 
 Banks that have waded back into the markets have been able to exploit large gaps in the prices of various investments, a feature of the postcrisis financial markets. The so-called bid-ask spreads -- the difference between the price at which banks are willing to buy things like bonds, and the price at which they are willing to sell -- are roughly twice what they were two years ago.
 Still, the newfound success is largely limited to the big securities houses on Wall Street. This week, Citigroup and Bank of America reported losses from credit card delinquencies and mortgage defaults -- a sign of the lingering pain on Main Street.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Some Banks Remain Troubled . . . At the two biggest banks that still have bailout money, losses from consumer lending have kept profits down. . . . While Others Have Turned Around: Two giants that have repaid the government have made gains. JPMorgan has been less affected by consumer losses and Goldman Sachs does not have a consumer banking division. Quarterly Net Income: CITIGROUP, BANK OF AMERICA, GOLDMAN SACHS, JPMORGAN CHASE (Source: Bloomberg) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



486 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Helicopter's Clatter Carries Powerful Recruiting Message

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL and THAYER EVANS

 BODY:
Over the din of a recent high school football game in Missouri, the blue-chip quarterback Tyler Gabbert heard a distinct sound. Above the crowd, cheerleaders and band, Gabbert could not help but notice the whir of a helicopter hovering over the field in Ballwin, Mo. The helicopter swooped to a secure location near the field, where Missouri Coach Gary Pinkel emerged to watch part of Parkway West's game. Pinkel's grand entrance created a splash, which is one of the reasons helicopters have emerged as the latest trend in big-time college football recruiting. 
 Private planes have long been used to zip coaches around the country, and now the idea of using helicopters has taken off. At least eight programs -- Missouri, Minnesota, Kentucky, Cincinnati, Rutgers, Maryland, Louisiana State and U.C.L.A. -- have used helicopters to drop in on recruits' games the past few years. 
 Most said that the money used for the helicopters was donated -- U.C.L.A.'s helicopter comes courtesy of a grandson of the composer Lawrence Welk and Cincinnati's bill was picked up by a booster for $3,900, or $1,500 an hour. The impact in terms of flash and access is undeniable. 
 ''It shows the importance of recruiting and the resources college football coaches are willing to use,'' Gabbert said. ''Recruiting is kind of like a business. They do everything they can to help make the recruits know that they're wanted and all that.''
 From a practical standpoint, U.C.L.A.'s use of a helicopter makes sense. With traffic in Los Angeles among the worst in the nation, especially on a Friday afternoon, Coach Rick Neuheisel said his use of Larry Welk's helicopter, which is called Air Bruin or Blue Thunder, allowed him to attend four or five games around the Los Angeles area instead of perhaps two while driving. To illustrate just how nightmarish traffic is, Neuheisel said that when he flew to a game at Compton Dominguez on a recent Friday afternoon he had to walk to the field because the U.C.L.A. staff member scheduled to drive him to the game was stuck in traffic. 
 Neuheisel said it was just as important to fly over the field so the players and fans notice the helicopter as it was to land and watch the game. 
 U.C.L.A.'s director of on-campus recruiting, Angus McClure, said that because staffs are only allowed 42 in-person evaluation days, the helicopter was invaluable. McClure recalled traffic being so bad last year that it took him four hours to drive to a game 60 miles away in Corona. 
 ''It may be more fluff than practical if it isn't difficult to drive,'' Neuheisel said. ''But I think when the practicality is there, then it's certainly a useful tool.'' 
 When Cincinnati Coach Brian Kelly and four of his staff members buzzed around town to five games on a recent Friday night, the intent was clear. The Bearcats had coaches on the ground at each game to be sure the game was not at halftime when they arrived, assuring them maximum attention. One school's student sections chanted, ''Brian Kelly'' (clap, clap, clap clap clap) upon his arrival. Mission accomplished. 
 ''We said, 'Let's really make a presence, let's do a Tom Cruise fly-by and make sure that we drop it down where we make a good impression,' '' Kelly said. ''We're using it to get to games, but if by chance you make it a big event, so be it.''
 The Bearcats created such a splash with the helicopter that they got more buzz than visiting coaches from programs like Texas, Alabama and Notre Dame. The Cincinnati recruiting coordinator, Tim Hinton, said an assistant coach from Texas text-messaged another coach in amazement. Hinton could only laugh. 
 ''It wasn't an evaluation process,'' Hinton said. ''It was a sell process, that's what it was about. It gave us an opportunity to take the time and effort to do things as first class as we can.''
 Considering a fiscal climate of budget cuts and layoffs on campuses around the country, it remains to be seen if the helicopter trend will evolve. 
 ''There's just all kinds of things to try to catch the attention of particular recruits and show them you want to take that extra step within the boundaries of the rules,'' Kentucky Coach Rich Brooks said.
 But some have already begun to back away. Maryland was among the first teams to use a helicopter in recruiting, a practice the university said it was considering ending because of budget concerns. 
 ''Certainly with our economic situation right now, that's something that might not be in our immediate plans in the future,'' the Maryland associate media relations director, Shawn Nestor, said.
 The N.C.A.A. has no rules against helicopter travel. But Pinkel pointed out that legislation tended to follow complaints. 
 ''With the N.C.A.A, generally when you start doing something like this, they start making rules,'' he said. 
 Pinkel said he did not like the Hollywood feel of the helicopter. He said he felt ''a bit too presidential.'' But Pinkel could not deny the practicality or the impact. He said that the helicopter allowed him to attend three games on a recent Friday night. One was in Illinois, and two were in the St. Louis area. Without the helicopter, he would have been able to attend only one. 
 ''I don't want to use the word big time, but it's impressive I think,'' Pinkel said. ''It certainly creates a reaction. Everybody knows that Missouri is coming.''
 Pinkel certainly made an impression, as Gabbert, whose brother Blaine is the starting quarterback at Missouri, said, ''It was pretty cool knowing that a coach came and watched you using a helicopter.'' 
 But Pinkel still flew away empty-handed. Tyler Gabbert said he was still committed to Nebraska, meaning Pinkel might have to fly elsewhere to find his quarterback of the future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); TRENDS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



487 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: All This Anger Against the Rich May Be Unhealthy

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
BEATING up on the wealthy seems to be the order of day. I suspected that. But a recent Wealth Matters column touched a particularly raw nerve. It looked at how even people with sizable fortunes were concerned about money in this recession and the impact that could have on the rest of us. 
 Readers rejected the attempt to understand the concerns of the rich. 
 ''That's so stupid that you ought to be slapped for it,'' one woman wrote. My favorite began: ''Bowties and Reaganomics are for losers. You can cry for the rich all you want, the rest of us will be happy to see them get taxed.'' 
 The vehemence in these e-mail messages made me wonder why so many people were furious at those who had more than they did. And why are the rich shouldering the blame for a collective run of bad decision-making? After all, many of the rich got there through hard work. And plenty of not-so-rich people bought homes, cars and electronics they could not afford and then defaulted on the debt, contributing to the crash last year.
 But in this recession, anger flows one way. Eric Dammann, a Manhattan psychoanalyst, theorizes that a lot of people are angry that the rules of the game seem to have changed. 
 ''There's always been envy and hatred toward the rich, but there was also a strong undercurrent of admiration that was holding these people up as a goal,'' Mr. Dammann said. ''This time it's different because it feels like it's a closed club and the rich have an unfair advantage.''
 What is troubling is that the anger has hardened for some into a suspicion that all wealthy people are motivated purely by self-interest, said Brad Klontz, a financial psychologist in Hawaii and a co-author of the forthcoming book, ''Mind Over Money: Overcoming the Money Disorders That Threaten Our Financial Health'' (Random House). 
 ''The script goes like this: Money is bad, rich people are shallow and greedy, and people become rich by taking advantage of others,'' Mr. Klontz said. ''But the same people who say money is bad say money is connected to their self-worth -- they wished they had it and you didn't.''
 In boom or bust, envy is natural, and the desire for a level playing field is understandable. But so too is the desire to do better financially, to the point where it seems at times to be hardwired into our national psyche. ''To revile the rich is to revile the American dream,'' said Robert Clarfeld, president of the wealth management firm Clarfeld Financial Advisors.
 This resentment was so palpable, I started to wonder if it was having any effect -- were the wealthy aware of it, and if they were, did they care?
 TAX AND GIVE A big concern among the wealthy right now, their advisers say, is not populist anger but how it might translate into tax-the-rich legislation on the federal and state levels. Their concern is twofold. 
 The first is that any tax increase has a direct impact on the income they withdraw from their portfolios. More money going to the government means less to live on. ''They're very concerned about taxes going up,'' said William Woodson, managing director at the Family Wealth Management group at Credit Suisse. ''The percent that goes to taxes is significant if it's a 15 percent capital gains vs. 25 percent capital gains. It makes a big difference.''
 The second concern may be disheartening for those who are angry at the rich but like the museum exhibition or scholarship they pay for: increased taxes could cut into donations. While there is not a direct correlation between tax deductibility and personal donations, there is a correlation between increased taxes in a continued weak economy and charitable giving. 
 ''I've not heard anything from anybody about the economy impacting the desire to do it,'' said Lyle LaMothe, head of wealth management in the United States at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. ''It's the ability to do it.''
 Mr. Woodson noted that in the last year foundations reduced their giving in line with the economic downturn, yet individuals tended to give the same or more, if they could. 
 THE ANGRY RICH For the wealthy, their public image is a secondary concern since so many of them seek to live anonymously.
 ''They feel mischaracterized,'' Mr. LaMothe said. ''They know the time and effort they contribute. They fund scholarships and all the things they do routinely, and then to be characterized as not doing their fair share begins to wear on them.''
 From the outside, the wealthy seem to be one big money-minting group. But how they came upon their wealth differs greatly. And those who did not make their fortunes in finance seem just as angry as everyone else about what Wall Street has wrought. 
 ''They want the problem to be fixed for their own personal benefit but also for the broader benefit of the community,'' Mr. Woodson said. ''They tie their wealth interests to the broader health of the economy.''
 Mr. Clarfeld, who manages $3 billion largely for financial services executives, takes exception to lumping all of Wall Street together. He said his clients felt that they had worked hard and honestly for their money and were now being unjustly judged alongside those who did not. 
 He is counseling clients to live their lives largely as they've done in the past, though in a slightly toned-down form. Mr. Clarfeld said he had taken his own advice to heart. He bought his dream car, a Jaguar XKR, before the market crash but then felt uncomfortable about it. ''I didn't like the way it made me feel but not enough that I was going to get rid of the car,'' he said. So he made light of it with a vanity plate to recall better times: ''PRE LEHM.'' 
 WIDER IMPACT The line from my last column that prompted the most responses was about how the wealthy weren't sleeping well either. The vitriol in the e-mail showed just how deep the anger against the rich is.
 Yet put simply, this is not healthy. After all, if you're wealthy and no one likes you, you still have lots of money. But if you spend your free time obsessing about the rich, you could end up in worse shape emotionally, personally and financially. 
 ''People who get caught up in this paranoia spend all night reading these blogs, and six months later they haven't done anything to better themselves,'' Dr. Dammann said. ''Even if they're right, there is a lot of wasted energy put into this. They need to look at the mistakes they've made in their life.''
 Mr. Klontz is even more concerned that this obsession with money and blame will affect children. He said the risk is creating a generation that distrusts investing and associates wealth with greed.
 ''People in their 20s have watched their parents lose their money and now they think, 'You can't trust banks, you can't trust anyone,' '' he said. ''We need to do work around that. That association between money and being bad can be extremely intense.''
 The trouble, Mr. Klontz said, is the people we surround ourselves with often reinforce our beliefs, even when they are unhealthy. ''What we don't see are the wealthy families with modest lifestyles who are raising responsible kids,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Clarfeld, a financial adviser, bought a Jaguar XKR before the financial collapse, a point he makes on its vanity plate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); WRITERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



488 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii's Health System Offers Wide Coverage and Low Costs

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: HONOLULU 

 BODY:
Imee Gallardo, 24, has been scooping ice cream at a Haagen-Dazs shop at Waikiki Beach for five years, and during that time the shop has done something its counterparts on the mainland rarely do: it has paid for her health care.
 Ms. Gallardo cannot imagine any other system.
 ''I wouldn't get coverage on the mainland?'' Ms. Gallardo asked. ''Even if I worked? Why?'' 
 Since 1974, Hawaii has required all employers to provide relatively generous health care benefits to any employee who works 20 hours a week or more. If health care legislation passes in Congress, the rest of the country may barely catch up. 
 Lawmakers working on a national health care fix have much to learn from the past 35 years in Hawaii, President Obama's native state.
 Among the most important lessons is that even small steps to change the system can have lasting effects on health. Another is that, once benefits are entrenched, taking them away becomes almost impossible. There have not been any serious efforts in Hawaii to repeal the law, although cheating by employers may be on the rise.
 But perhaps the most intriguing lesson from Hawaii has to do with costs. This is a state where regular milk sells for $8 a gallon, gasoline costs $3.60 a gallon and the median price of a home in 2008 was $624,000 -- the second-highest in the nation. Despite this, Hawaii's health insurance premiums are nearly tied with North Dakota for the lowest in the country, and Medicare costs per beneficiary are the nation's lowest.
 Hawaii residents live longer than people in the rest of the country, recent surveys have shown, and the state's health care system may be one reason. In one example, Hawaii has the nation's highest incidence of breast cancer but the lowest death rate from the disease.
 Why is Hawaiian care so efficient? No one really knows. 
 In dozens of interviews, doctors and hospital and insurance executives in Hawaii offered many theories, including an active population that is culturally disinclined to hospitals, a significant military presence and a health care market dominated by a few not-for-profit organizations. 
 But there was another answer: With nearly 90 percent of the populace given relatively generous benefits, patients stay healthy and health providers have the money and motivation to innovate.
 If true, it's a crucial lesson. Health care overhaul efforts at the state and national levels have so far been largely confined to providing bare-bones insurance coverage to those in need. But changing the way care is provided has been given short shrift, and medical experts warn that costs could soar if overhaul legislation passes. After expanding coverage in 2006, Massachusetts is only now tackling the cost problem as expenses continue their inexorable rise.
 But the Hawaii experience suggests that overhauling health insurance before changing the way care is provided could work, eventually. With more people given access to care, hospital and insurance executives in Hawaii say they have been able to innovate efficiencies. For instance, the state's top three medical providers are adopting electronic medical records -- years ahead of most mainland counterparts. 
 The Hawaii Medical Service Association, the state's largest insurer and a Blue Cross Blue Shield member, recently offered the nation's only statewide system whereby anyone for a nominal fee can talk by phone or e-mail, day or night, to doctors of their choosing.
 Kaiser Permanente Hawaii, which covers about 20 percent of the state's population, screens 85 percent of its female members ages 42 to 69 for breast cancer, among the highest screening rates in the country.
 One result of Hawaii's employer mandate and the relatively high number of people with health insurance is that hospital emergency rooms in the state are islands of relative calm. In 2007, the state had 264 outpatient visits to emergency rooms per 1,000 people -- 34 percent lower than the national average of 401.
 Dr. Ray Sebastian splits his time between the emergency room at Kapi'olani Medical Center at Pali Momi and a hospital in Los Angeles. Nearly all of his poorest patients in Hawaii have routine access to family doctors who can provide follow-up care, while fewer than half of those in Los Angeles do, he estimated. So, he said, the emergency room in Hawaii is not clogged with patients suffering minor problems like medication adjustments and cold symptoms, and patient waiting times are a small fraction of those in Los Angeles: 
 ''It's like greased lightning here,'' he said.
 Other states tried employer-mandated care only to repeal the efforts after employers threatened to move across state lines. Hawaii's isolation forestalled such threats, and its paternalistic plantation history made employer-provided care an easy fit.
 In interviews, leaders and employers in Hawaii referred with surprising earnestness to an ''aloha spirit'' and a sense of familial obligation known as ohana to justify providing care to nearly everyone. 
 Hospital executives said they never overbuilt their facilities because the Pacific Ocean meant they could not delude themselves into thinking, as their mainland counterparts sometimes do, that they would be able to attract patients from afar.
 Since supply tends to drive demand in health care, this may be one reason Hawaii residents use fewer health care services -- they get a third fewer magnetic resonance imaging tests and are admitted to the hospital 26 percent less than the United States average.
 There are clear problems with Hawaii's system. Hospitals on the outer islands are small and losing money. With unemployment rising, so, too, are the ranks of the uninsured -- which is now 10.7 percent of nonelderly adults. Only Massachusetts has a lower share of uninsured adults, and the national share is 20.4 percent. And there is growing evidence that as the economy has slowed and premiums have risen, employers have hired more part-time workers who are ineligible for benefits.
 Barbara Zacchini, owner of Pizzeria Zacchini on the island of Hawaii, said she makes sure that her 17 part-timers work less than 20 hours a week so she does not have to pay for their care.
 ''I'm for universal health care,'' Ms. Zacchini said, ''but it's tough to run a business in this state and in this economy.'' 
 Some employers are ducking the law altogether. A 61-year-old travel agent in Honolulu said her boss refused to provide health insurance although he is required by law to do so. She cannot find another job, so she asked that her name not be used.
 She has not been to a primary-care doctor or a gynecologist in years and goes to the emergency room when she needs care. ''I could have an alien called cancer growing inside me, but who knows?'' she said. ''It worries me.''
 Hawaii law requires employers to offer standardized health plans with low co-pays, no deductibles and few out-of-pocket costs. Cliff Cisco, a senior vice president at the Hawaii Medical Service Association, said that having a standardized and popular benefit has helped keep administrative costs to just 7 percent of revenue, among the lowest in the nation. 
 Indeed, many in Hawaii are worried that legislation moving through Congress could, if it supersedes Hawaii law, allow employers to reduce the quality of care provided. So legislators in Hawaii have pushed for provisions exempting the state.
 Chad Buck, owner of Hawaii Food Service Alliance, a grocery distribution company with 140 employees, said he feared national health care legislation might allow his competitors to provide low-cost, high-deductible plans in place of the generous benefits now required by the state.
 ''I don't want to compete against low-quality health care, and I don't want my employees to have a cheap second,'' Mr. Buck said.
 Richard Caldarazzo, 25, a manager at Lulu's Waikiki Surf Club, said he had worked at restaurants in Ann Arbor, Mich., and Chicago and had never gotten health insurance.
 After he moved to Hawaii and got a job at Lulu's, ''I was really surprised when they told me I'd get insurance,'' Mr. Caldarazzo said. ''My parents couldn't believe it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Imee Gallardo, 24, who works at a Haagen-Dazs shop in Honolulu, receives health care benefits.(pg. A1)
Richard Caldarazzo, a manager at Lulu's Waikiki Surf Club, said restaurants on the mainland had never provided health care.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CORY LUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) CHARTS: Medicare Costs: Hawaii has particularly efficient health care, with the nation's lowest Medicare costs per beneficiary.(Source: Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, 2006)
 THE BASICS: Employer Mandate: A requirement that businesses offer their employees health insurance. It may pertain only to businesses of a certain size. Massachusetts, for example, requires businesses with 10 or more employees to provide coverage or to pay a set amount on their behalf to buy coverage.(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CANCER (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); MEDICARE (66%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE (65%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (62%); BREAST CANCER (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (97%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



489 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: 2 Market Regulators Propose Ways to Resolve Differences

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two agencies with oversight of the financial markets proposed changes on Friday to eliminate their differences in regulating similar securities and futures investments.
 The recommendations to Congress on ''harmonizing'' regulations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the government's primary markets watchdog, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are part of the plan to overhaul the nation's financial rules, called for in the Obama administration's blueprint. 
 The explosive growth of the unregulated market for derivatives -- the complex financial instruments blamed for precipitating the financial crisis -- has made the need to fix gaps and overlaps in the two agencies' regulations especially critical, government officials say.
 The House Financial Services Committee voted on Thursday to regulate derivatives for the first time. Derivatives helped bring down the investment bank Lehman Brothers and nearly toppled the insurance conglomerate American International Group as the crisis struck last fall.
 The bill must be reconciled with a proposal by the House Agriculture Committee and faces scrutiny by the full House and in the Senate, where business-friendly Republicans are likely to wield more influence.
 The chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Gary Gensler, has argued for a tougher proposal. He said in a statement Thursday that he wanted to work with Congress ''to complete legislation that covers the entire marketplace without exception and to ensure that regulators have appropriate authorities to protect the public.''
 The report released on Friday recommends legislation to expand the agencies' authority in certain areas and increase their enforcement powers by, for example, establishing protections for whistle-blowers. It also recommends new rules to improve their coordination.
 ''These recommendations will help to fill regulatory gaps, eliminate inconsistent oversight and promote greater collaboration,'' the chairwoman of the S.E.C., Mary L. Schapiro, said.
 The S.E.C. and the trading commission, which oversees the trading of oil, gas and other commodities as well as financial instruments, have battled over regulatory turf. But they recently agreed on sharing regulation of the $600 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market.
 The report also calls for legislation to provide for faster judicial review of jurisdictional disputes over new financial products. Many long legal disputes over whether specific products should be regulated as securities or futures resulted from the agencies' overlapping authorities, the White House said in June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (73%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (72%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (72%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



490 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Tough Questions for Financial Planners

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
If you think you've had a hard time reckoning with your own finances in the last 18 months, try putting yourself in the shoes of the financial planners who've been answering to scores of unhappy clients. 
 The planners, after all, were the ones who were supposed to help their clients avoid trouble in the first place. ''I feel like I'm finally able to leave the witness protection program,'' said Ross Levin, president of Accredited Investors in Edina, Minn. ''There has been a loss of confidence in us and in the world, and a sense of betrayal. They did everything we told them to do, and it seemed like it didn't work out.''
 Though markets have improved, they are still far from where they once were, and that has made for some difficult discussions between financial professionals and their clients. 
 I wanted to find out more about those conversations. How much were clients pushing back, for example, and what were they saying? That was the main reason I moderated a discussion last Sunday at the Financial Planning Association annual meeting in Anaheim, Calif. (I received no compensation for my role there.) 
 While the planners were resolved and well rehearsed in front of hundreds of their peers, it was also clear that they had been severely tested in the last year. During the hourlong session, I quizzed five of them about the toughest questions their clients had asked. Here are those questions, along with the planners' responses. 
 PREDICTING THE FUTURE So why didn't most financial planners see all of this coming? Weren't the signs obvious?
 ''This question actually presumes that there is something wrong with not having seen this coming,'' said Elissa Buie of Yeske Buie, with offices in Vienna, Va., and San Francisco. ''We live in a chaotic system, and chaotic systems are not predictable. But we know the range of possibilities, and this was always a possibility.''
 Though most clients tend not to remember it years later, good financial planners will generally sit down at the beginning of a relationship, after clients have declared the sort of risk tolerance they think they have, and remind them how bad things can get in a truly outlying year. Well, 2008 into 2009 was one of those years. 
 Still, Ms. Buie said that even had she known the extent of the stock market carnage, it still might not have helped her clients' performance much. ''We wouldn't have known when the turnaround was coming, so we wouldn't have known when to change people's portfolios.''
 DIVIDING THE MONEY One of the most frightening parts of the recent market decline was that there was nowhere to hide. If you divide your assets among stocks, bonds, real estate, commodities and other investments, they are not supposed to all fall in tandem. So is the idea of asset allocation dead?
 Tim Kochis, chief executive of Aspiriant, with offices in Los Angeles and San Francisco, rejects the premise of the question. ''Asset allocation is not designed to protect against market movements in very short-term time horizons,'' he said. ''It's designed to provide optimal performance results over very long periods of time, and there's nothing to suggest that that expectation will not be fulfilled.''
 For clients, it's easy to blanch at something like this. Must they really wait decades to see whether their financial planner was right? Then again, getting set for retirement and not outliving your money is generally the primary goal for clients who pay for financial advice. 
 Older investors still had to wonder early this year whether their portfolios would ever recover. The last six months have given them some comfort, though, assuming they remained in the stock market. Mr. Kochis notes that one of the primary tenets of asset allocation is rebalancing every so often. People who did that and picked up, say, cheap stocks in emerging markets earlier this year are probably glad they did. 
 ESTABLISHING CONTROL Still, given what we've learned about the unpredictability of the markets, is there anything related to money that is within one's control?
 This is a question that people ask almost out of desperation, while throwing up their hands in despair and disgust. But there are plenty of ways to answer it. Harold Evensky of Evensky & Katz in Coral Gables, Fla., noted that the expense of investing was controllable, and clients can also often control what they pay in taxes and when.
 Michael A. Branham of Cornerstone Wealth Advisors in Edina, Minn., the youngest financial planner on the panel, added an important point for midcareer professionals who are still employed. ''They could control their savings rate,'' he said. ''They could choose how much more they wanted to add, so when we came out of this, they were able to really be ahead of the game.''
 Ms. Buie said that after meeting with many clients in the last year, she found that the ones who felt best were the ones who had chosen to rein in their spending the most. ''They probably felt more empowered than anyone else because they were doing something to make progress,'' she said.
 SNIFFING OUT THIEVES The economy was bad enough, but individuals who paid for financial advice also found themselves worrying about whether their adviser was the next Bernard L. Madoff. So how can people know for sure that they are not dealing with crooks?
 The short answer is they can't, and Ms. Buie noted that planners who had appeared at past conferences had themselves stolen client money later on. Still, Mr. Evensky noted that it could help to work with a financial adviser who kept client money with a third party like Charles Schwab or Fidelity. 
 That won't protect clients against, say, forged money transfer forms. Ms. Buie said she believed that the brokerage industry needed to do a better job of creating clearer monthly statements that alerted people when money moved out of their account. 
 ''It should say, at the top, this is how much money left your account this month,'' she said. That way, people who didn't move any money out themselves could notice any transfers more easily. She added that people who were sick, old or otherwise distracted should have trusted friends or family members reading the statements each month on their behalf.
 CHANGING FOREVER When things are at their worst, the natural response is to lower expectations. As a result, many financial planners have heard some version of this question over the last year: Do I have to change my lifestyle from this point forward, forever?
 For clients living close to the edge financially, or those who were older, this analysis was fairly intense, according to Mr. Kochis. ''But our conclusion was not to do anything that is irreversible,'' he said. Take the decision to retire, for instance. ''You can't simply snap your fingers and get your job back.''
 Ms. Buie suggested focusing on what individuals really meant by lifestyle. ''Even if you have a little less money, do you really have a little less life?'' she said. Her firm's mailing to clients on meaningful activities that didn't require a lot of money got far and away the most response of anything it had ever sent out, she said. She and her husband, for instance, have saved money on travel through home exchanges. 
 These dark moments have provided a good opportunity to remind everyone of the fundamental assumptions that inform financial planning, whether you are working with a professional or not. ''We made it very clear to clients that we have a basic, underlying belief that over time, the domestic and world economy will go up,'' Mr. Evensky said. 
 So to those who insisted that stocks would never again be appropriate and were grasping for guaranteed returns, he simply said this to the ones who did not yet have enough cash to live on comfortably forever: ''You can be certain if you put your money in C.D.'s and money markets, but you can also certainly be sure that you'll never be able to accomplish your goals and maintain your lifestyle. There is risk no matter what you're doing, and our judgment is that the safe thing to do is to stay invested.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BONDS (70%); ACCREDITATION (70%); WITNESSES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



491 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: As Ethical Questions Linger, Rangel Sees a Drop in Donations

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York has so far been able to hang onto his powerful committee chairmanship despite damaging disclosures about his financial dealings. But when it comes to the kind of clout that Washington pays close attention to -- campaign dollars -- his status seems to be slipping.
 The pace of financial contributions to Mr. Rangel, a fund-raising powerhouse for the Democratic Party who is chairman of the influential House Ways and Means Committee, has dropped by nearly half this year from the previous election cycle, according to the most recent campaign finance disclosure statements. 
 From January 2009 to September 2009, he raised a total of about $1.7 million through three committees he controls and uses to dole out money to Democratic candidates and causes. Mr. Rangel brought in more than $3.1 million with only two committees he controlled during the corresponding period in the previous election cycle, the financial disclosure statements show.
 Now, Democratic officials and donors say that that the ethical questions hanging over Mr. Rangel, who has represented Harlem in Congress since 1971, are taking a toll, particularly as Republicans spotlight his problems in ads and repeated pushes are made to try to force him to step aside from the chairmanship. The House Ethics Committee is investigating the allegations against him.
 The falloff in contributions has implications for the Democrats as they face a tough electoral season, with Republicans seeking to chip away at their majority.
 As Ways and Means chairman, Mr. Rangel holds one of the premier positions on Capitol Hill for raising money for the party from individuals and groups looking to influence legislation moving through the committee, which writes the tax code and is involved in shaping major policy.
 In the previous election cycle, Mr. Rangel contributed $3.5 million -- more than any other member of Congress -- to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and its candidates around the country, according to party officials.
 A Rangel spokesman said that the congressman's latest totals ''are strong figures, especially considering the state of the economy and fund-raising across all sectors.'' He added, ''The congressman is working harder than ever to represent his constituents in Congress as he works with leadership to finalize health insurance reform legislation and further efforts to help our community and economy recover from this recession.'' 
 Jennifer Crider, speaking for the House Democrats' campaign committee, declined to comment on Mr. Rangel's fund-raising beyond saying, ''The D.C.C.C. is a member participation committee and we appreciate everything our members do for us.''
 A Democratic fund-raiser said he and his company recently tried to arrange a fund-raising reception for Mr. Rangel, only to find that many people were wary of attending. ''I had a ton of people e-mail me saying that they were not going to give to him because of the cloud hanging over him,'' said the fund-raiser, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to antagonize the congressman.
 ''It's not like the old days,'' the person continued. ''Donors now keep away from anyone who is under a cloud.''
 Not only has Mr. Rangel's fund-raising pace slowed, but what money he is raising is increasingly going to pay for lawyers defending him in the ethics inquiry. He spent $255,000 on legal fees in the last three months alone. As a result, he has far less money not only for his own political needs but to help other Democrats, a practice that helps veteran lawmakers build influence.
 ''At this point, most people know that he is spending a lot of money on legal fees,'' said a senior Democratic official who supports Mr. Rangel but who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. ''That makes it much harder to raise money.''
 Mr. Rangel has been under investigation by the House Ethics Committee since last year after The New York Times reported that he rented four rent-stabilized apartments in Harlem for below market value. The inquiry was eventually expanded to include unreported income and unpaid taxes from a villa he owns in the Dominican Republic and questions about whether he improperly used his office to raise money for a center to be named in his honor. 
 Last week, the inquiry was expanded again to examine hundreds of thousands of dollars in income and assets that he failed to report in his financial disclosure forms for 2002 through 2006.
 That announcement came a day after Republicans tried to force a vote on the House floor calling for Mr. Rangel's removal as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. Democrats ultimately defeated the move.
 Lawyers for Mr. Rangel have said that sloppy bookkeeping led him to file incomplete or inaccurate financial disclosure forms, and a spokesman has said that steps have been taken to correct the errors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Charles B. Rangel at a hearing of the Ways and Means Committee on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); ETHICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); INSURANCE LAW (64%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (64%); INSURANCE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



492 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Autos Lead Increase in U.S. Factory Production

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose for a third consecutive month in September on higher production of automobiles and other goods, providing positive signs for the ailing manufacturing sector. 
 Higher output of motor vehicles and parts accounted for much of the increase, in part because the government's cash for clunkers program stimulated buying. Still, steel and other sectors also posted gains.
 ''Thanks to the cash for clunkers program, replenishing inventories and exports, U.S. factories are getting back into business,'' Jennifer Lee, an economist at BMO Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients.
 The Federal Reservesaid Friday in a statement that industrial production rose 0.7 percent last month. Wall Street economists expected a 0.2 percent rise.
 August output also was revised to 1.2 percent from 0.8 percent.
 Industrial output increased at a 5.2 percent annual rate in the July-September quarter, the Fed said, the largest quarterly gain since the first three months of 2005. It was also the first quarterly increase since the beginning of 2008.
 Factory output, the single largest slice of industrial production, rose for a third month, increasing 0.9 percent. Much of that improvement resulted from higher auto manufacturing, which rose 8.1 percent.
 But autos were not the whole story. Excluding motor vehicles, factory output rose 0.5 percent.
 The production of steel and other metals rose 3.4 percent, while output increased for aerospace equipment and products for computers and other electronic devices.
 Auto companies have benefited from the rebate program, which provided up to $4,500 to consumers who traded in older cars for newer, more fuel-efficient models. That program ended in August.
 Automakers have ramped up operations to replace inventories depleted by the clunkers program and factory shutdowns earlier this year. General Motors and Chrysler cut back on production in early summer as they restructured and emerged from bankruptcy protection.
 Mining production, meanwhile, rose 0.7 percent last month, while utility output dropped 0.7 percent.
 Industrial companies are using more of the capacity of their plants and equipment, though operating rates remain below levels associated with a healthy economy.
 The operating rate for the nation's factories, mines and utilities was 70.5 percent last month, up from record-low levels in June but still below the long-term average of about 80 percent.
 Despite the gain, industrial production is 6.1 percent below levels a year earlier, the Fed said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); SALES REBATES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



493 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CAMPAIGN TRAILER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Grades Go Up With a Look in the Mirror

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Of course that's what the mayor would say. 
 The morning after his first mayoral debate with William C. Thompson Jr., Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declared himself satisfied with his performance. Really, really satisfied, even though many people (including a few who work for him) felt both candidates were underwhelming.
 ''If I didn't rate it well, I suppose I should see a shrink, so I'd give myself an A++,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 And what about Mr. Thompson, his Democratic opponent?
 ''I won't rate anybody else,'' he told reporters. 
 But truth be told, Mr. Bloomberg did give Mr. Thompson a failing grade in spirit. 
 ''I thought my opponent spent more time running away from his record than trying to defend it, and given his record, I guess that what you'd expect him to do,'' he said.
 When told of Mr. Bloomberg's comments, Anne Fenton, a spokeswoman for the Thompson campaign, fired back: ''Mike Bloomberg also gave New York City schools A's and B's and today we found out half of our students are not proficient in math. Given Bloomberg's record on education, jobs, the economy and his utter lack of respect for term limits, I'd say his grading system has about as much legitimacy as his empty campaign promises.''
 DAVID W. CHEN
 That Bill's a Nice Fellow
 Who says that Mike can't say anything nice about Bill?
 Or so it seemed on Thursday, when Mr. Bloomberg received the Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy for his charitable contributions. 
 The honorary chairman of the Carnegie committee, it turned out, was a familiar name to political insiders, so during an event at the New York Public Library, Mr. Bloomberg couldn't help himself. 
 ''If anyone thought that I wouldn't say something nice about Bill Thomson at this moment, they were mistaken,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 That would be Thomson without a ''p,'' and therefore not Mr. Bloomberg's challenger for mayor. The Mr. Thomson who was on stage Thursday is actually a descendant of Andrew Carnegie, speaks with a British accent and is called Sir William. But everyone was in on the joke. And it was the kind of well-heeled crowd that, in between bites of short ribs and a campaignlike video (featuring a screenshot of Mr. Bloomberg's campaign video with the actor Matt Damon), gave Mr. Bloomberg, the billionaire founder of Bloomberg L.P., a standing ovation.
 DAVID W. CHEN
 What Recession?
 Talk about ignoring the obvious. 
 During Tuesday's hourlong debate, the moderators asked questions about manicures, pedicures, Roman Polanski and Big Macs.
 They did not, however, ask about the economy, even though the local unemployment rate exceeds 10 percent; tens of thousands of city residents face home foreclosure and the budget deficit tops $5 billion. 
 The curious omission confounded several political observers. 
 ''I kept waiting and waiting for it,'' said Fred Siegel, a history professor at Cooper Union College who penned a bruising op-ed article in The New York Post describing the moderators as ''painfully unprepared.''
 Gary Tilzer, a longtime city political operative, wrote on his blog that the moderators ''failed'' because voters know nothing more about ''the fiscal dangers ahead than they did before the debate.''
 Spokesmen for the candidates said they had prepared for tough questions about the city's finances. After all, Mr. Bloomberg's rationale for running again is that he has the resume to run a city in economic turmoil. 
 ''The mayor had an economic plan to outline, but it did not come up,'' said Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg's campaign. 
 How did this happen? 
 The moderators, NY1, WYNC and The Daily News, developed their questions during meetings held before the debate. A person familiar with the process said that a question about the economy was planned but time ran out for it. 
 ''There are only so many questions that can be asked within an hour and we covered a wide array of issues,'' said Robert Hardt, the political director at NY1. ''Had we not asked about the 'nanny state' or N.Y.P.D. tactics or education or homelessness, someone would be asking us about that omission.''
 MICHAEL BARBARO
 Term Limits Revisited
 It was the fall of 2008 all over again.
 On Friday, Mr. Thompson tried to recreate the raucous term limits hearings at City Hall, which paved the way for Mr. Bloomberg to rewrite the law and run for a third term. 
 In his most creative event of the campaign, the Democratic nominee invited New Yorkers who testified last year to return for a repeat performance. About five did.
 One of them was Michael D. D. White, a lawyer, who gleefully recalled his appearance last year. 
 Annoyed with the two-minute limit on speeches, he asked the hearing's chairman for five. The chairman, Councilman Simcha Felder, declined, prompting Mr. White to deadpan: ''You don't like the rules being changed in the middle of the game?''
 This time around, Mr. White read a passage from Mr. Bloomberg's autobiography, ''Bloomberg by Bloomberg,'' in which the mayor mocked politicians for their ''hypocrisy and 're-election at all costs' mentality.''
 Mr. White smiled broadly. ''Re-election at all costs mentality? Hypocrisy?'' he shouted. 
 ''This is a man who secretly strategized to ram term limits through at the last minute,'' he said, ''even though he once said it would be a disgrace.''
 ''This is a man,'' he continued, ''who together with Christine Quinn used every trick in the book to twist arms.''
 And, he went on: ''This is a man who called up charities he sends money to tell them that they should show up,'' to support his position on term limits.
 Mr. Bloomberg was nowhere in sight, just as he was during the Council hearings. But his presence was still felt. 
 At one point, a Bloomberg campaign aide stood a few feet from the press conference, smoking a cigarette. Occasionally, he turned to blow smoke in the direction of the podium.
 MICHAEL BARBARO

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RANDY JONES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TERM LIMITS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (68%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (66%); CHARITABLE GIVING (63%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); MATT DAMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



494 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: In Britain, A Soaring Deficit Lifts A Hawk

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: MANCHESTER 

 BODY:
It's the deficit, stupid. 
 That was the message, though not in exactly those words, that George Osborne, the ambitious finance minister-in-waiting for the Conservative Party, delivered to the Tory faithful here earlier this month as he warned of Britain's mushrooming debt burden. 
 ''The government borrowed too much, the banks borrowed too much,'' he said in a long-awaited speech at the party conference setting out the Conservative agenda going into next spring's election against the Labour government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown. ''Let's tell the truth: We all borrowed too much. We are sinking in a sea of debt.'' 
 It is rare for a major party anywhere to run for office on a platform of pain and penny-pinching. But Mr. Osborne and his fellow Tories, in adapting a variation of James Carville's unofficial slogan in 1992 that carried Bill Clinton to victory, are betting that voters will not just accept a dose of harsh medicine but will actually appreciate his honesty in offering it. 
 Mr. Osborne has even gone against a core Tory constituency, the wealthy financiers who fill the offices in the City of London, by saying that he will not reduce the top 50 percent tax rate recently imposed by Labour on Britain's richest. 
 ''We have to show that we are fair to all parts of society,'' Mr. Osborne said in an interview in Manchester. ''It would be impossible to cut taxes now while we are asking others to sacrifice so much.'' 
 It is a cheeky, unproven strategy. 
 Republicans in the United States are also focusing on the country's similarly large deficit, forecast at 12.3 percent of gross domestic product this year, the highest since World War II. So the extent to which Mr. Osborne can persuade the British public to embrace a program of reduced social services and public-sector wage freezes -- without base-rallying tax cuts -- may serve as a model for a 2012 campaign against President Obama. 
 At the moment, because of the sharp economic recession here and widespread disenchantment with the Labour Party, the Conservatives are far ahead in the polls. They are widely expected to return to power after more than a decade out of office. 
 But that may be the easy part. As Mr. Osborne made clear in his speech, Britain, whose currency in recent months has taken a beating even worse than the dollar has, is expected to generate a deficit of 13 percent of G.D.P. this year, with its government debt forecast to reach 100 percent of G.D.P. by 2014, according to the International Monetary Fund. 
 By comparison, the debt burden in the United States is forecast to increase to 66 percent, from about 40 percent, over the same period, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
 Just this week, the European Commission termed Britain's debt ''unsustainable'' in a devastating report that compared public finances here to those of countries like Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania. 
 According to the report, which has been latched on to by the Conservatives as a further sign of Britain's economic decline, the government needs to find $:200 billion. 
 Mr. Osborne, in setting out the Conservative fiscal agenda, is playing bad cop to the good cop role of David Cameron, the Tory leader. And with his penchant for delivering bad news with little sugarcoating, it is no surprise that Mr. Osborne, who is just 38, almost proudly confesses that he is looking forward to being the most reviled man in Britain. 
 ''You have to be honest with people,'' Mr. Osborne said in the interview. ''There is so much distrust in the system that I believe there is a premium on straight talking.'' 
 Mr. Osborne, though, is not a naturally gifted political salesman. Indeed, while his Tory colleagues were inclined to push into the conference crowd, he tended to keep his distance. And on television, he often projects the clammy, awkward persona of a schoolboy making his first speech. 
 Mr. Cameron, who is close to Mr. Osborne and comes from a similar background, has transcended the ignominy of his membership in the Bullingdon Club, the elite drinking enclave at Oxford. By contrast, Mr. Osborne seems far less removed from the haughty picture of himself and his club members, garbed in bow ties and tails, that has come to define the view that the recast Conservatives still lack a common touch. 
 What Mr. Osborne does not lack, however, is what even his toughest critics recognize as an acute sense of how to play for keeps in the rough and tumble sandpit of British politics that is at odds with his aristocratic demeanor. 
 The first of his political calculations came during his early teenage years when he had his name legally changed from Gideon to George, explaining to a schoolmate at the time that one could not become prime minister with a name like Gideon. 
 But it is the more recent gamble -- persuading Mr. Cameron that the Tories must relentlessly attack Mr. Brown on Britain's debt -- that will most likely define him and the Conservative Party, for better or for worse. 
 It has left him open to plenty of personal attacks from the party in power. 
 ''Cutting spending at the height of a recession -- I have never heard of such nonsense,'' said Peter Mandelson, the business secretary, who has been a senior strategist to Mr. Brown and his predecessor, Tony Blair. ''This is not an economic philosophy; it is crude objectionism.'' 
 Even in the financial district, concerns have been raised that Mr. Osborne is too doctrinaire. 
 ''He comes across as callow and rich,'' said Andrew Hilton, who runs CSFI, a research center focused on financial issues. ''The City wants Labour out, but there is trepidation. If we cut spending right now it would be a lot worse.'' 
 At a luncheon for Tory business supporters, Mr. Osborne struck a more relaxed tone. But his main focus was the same. 
 Britain's deficit ''is a clear and present threat; we have to deal with it,'' he said. Acknowledging the tough measures he laid out during his speech and the criticism that followed, he added: ''You have to bring the public with you. To get elected on a false prospectus would be catastrophic. All this will help ensure a democratic mandate.'' 
 To meet his goals, Mr. Osborne will have to rely on financial institutions in London and abroad (close to 40 percent of Britain's debt is held by foreigners) to keep buying government bonds at reasonable interest rates. 
 ''Osborne is dealing with the hard realities,'' said Michael Hintze, a prominent Tory financial supporter and founder of the hedge fund CQS, who suggested that Mr. Osborne would bring a much-needed business sensibility to the challenges facing the British government. ''It is a U.K. P.L.C. issue at this point. You can't just keep spending.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Saturday with an article about Britain's growing national debt misstated the amount of the United States' debt. According to the International Monetary Fund, the American government's gross national debt as a percentage of gross domestic product in 2005 was 61.4 percent and the projection for 2010 is 93.6 percent. The figures cited in the chart, 37.5 percent in 2005 and 61.1 percent in 2010, were from the Congressional Budget Office and included only federal debt held by the public.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Osborne speaking on Oct. 6 at the Conservative Party conference in Manchester. He said he believed voters were ready to return the Tories to power.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JON SUPER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B7) CHART: Deeper in Debt: Government debt levels are rising in many industrialized countries . . .(Sources: International Monetary Fund
 Congressional Budget Office)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); RECESSION (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (90%); BILL CLINTON (72%); GORDON BROWN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (91%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



495 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Deficit Rises To $1.4 Trillion; Biggest Since '45

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration said Friday that the federal budget deficit for the fiscal year that just ended was $1.4 trillion, nearly a trillion dollars greater than the year before and the largest shortfall relative to the size of the economy since 1945. 
 The number, while lower than forecast a few months ago, underscored the challenges ahead in shrinking the deficit even as the White House and Congress are considering more steps to stimulate an economy that is making a slow recovery. The political hurdles to finding a solution were evident on Friday as each political party immediately blamed the other for the growth of the deficit. 
 The shortfall for the fiscal year 2009, which ended Sept. 30, translates to 10 percent of the economy, according to a joint statement from the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and the director of the Office of Management and Budget, Peter R. Orszag. For the 2008 fiscal year, the deficit of $459 billion was 3.2 percent of the economy, as measured by the gross domestic product. 
 Economists generally agree that annual deficits should not exceed 3 percent of the G.D.P., and that is the level President Obama had vowed to reach by the end of his first term in 2013.
 But subsequent spending and tax cuts to stimulate the economy, and lower-than-expected revenues as the recession deepened before bottoming out, combined to push the administration's deficit forecast to 4.6 percent of G.D.P. for the fiscal year 2013.
 At 10 percent of the gross domestic product, the 2009 deficit is the highest since the end of World War II, when it was 21.5 percent. At that level, it already has become a bigger economic and a political issue than any time since the late 1980s.
 Investors who are essential to financing the debt, including China and other foreign interests, are eager for signs that the government will eventually regain control over its budgets.
 And polls show that Americans are increasingly worried as well, raising concerns about Mr. Obama's ambitious domestic agenda, including his signature health care overhaul, that Republicans are stoking. At the same time, many Americans are demanding further help, confronting forecasts that job losses will not peak until mid-2010. 
 Mr. Orszag alluded to the administration's fiscal quandary in a statement on Friday. ''As we move from rescue to recovery, the president recognizes that we need to put the nation back on a fiscally sustainable path,'' he said. He said proposals to help do that would be part of Mr. Obama's next budget early next year, for fiscal 2011. 
 The 2009 fiscal year began last October, just as President George W. Bush and Congress were contending with the near-collapse of the financial system and working to enact what became a $700 billion rescue plan. After Mr. Obama took office, administration officials calculated that the deficit would surpass $1.2 trillion. Mr. Geithner and Mr. Orszag recalled that forecast in their statement on Friday.
 The 2009 deficit, they said, ''was largely the product of the spending and tax policies inherited from the previous administration, exacerbated by a severe recession and financial crisis that were under way as the current administration took office.''
 The economic recovery efforts, through the Troubled Asset Relief Program for financial institutions, known as Tarp, and the $787 billion, two-year stimulus package, accounted for just under a quarter of the deficit, they said.
 The administration's calculation of a $1.4 trillion deficit tracks an estimate last week from the Congressional Budget Office that anticipated the data from the Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget. The actual deficit was slightly lower than each had expected in August, when the White House budget office projected a $1.8 trillion deficit and the Congressional office forecast $1.6 trillion.
 The decrease from the earlier projections largely reflected updated accounting, including, Mr. Geithner said, the fact that ''we are managing to repair the financial system at a lower cost to taxpayers.''
 The Obama administration ultimately did not need additional billions it had budgeted for the effort. Also, several major institutions repaid their bailout money with interest, and other financial companies that have not are paying interest on their borrowings. 
 While many financial institutions have recovered -- and prospered, as this week's eye-popping earnings reports for JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs showed -- the persistent high unemployment, home foreclosure rates and credit needs of small businesses are keeping the White House and Congress focused on stimulating the economy. This adds to the deficit, rather than reduces it.
 ''It would be harmful to try to balance the budget at a time when the economy has not fully recovered and so many Americans are still struggling,'' said Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina and chairman of the House Budget Committee. 
 But on Friday, the deficit was front and center. The overall national debt, which is the accumulation of annual deficits, is nearly $12 trillion, and projected deficits for the next decade will add an estimated $9 trillion more. Administration officials say two-thirds of that is due to Bush administration policies -- chiefly tax cuts, wars and the Medicare prescription drug benefit -- not paid for with other savings.
 ''Today's deficit announcement again highlights the fiscal mess handed to the Obama administration,'' Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said in a statement.
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican minority leader in the House, rejected that position. ''It is irresponsible for Democrats to continue spending taxpayers' money we don't have to fund an agenda that would destroy the jobs we need to get our economy moving again,'' Mr. Boehner said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TAX LAW (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



496 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Darkness On The Edge of Monotown

BYLINE: By LEON ARON. 
Leon Aron, the director of Russian studies at the American Enterprise Institute, is the author, most recently, of ''Russia's Revolution: Essays 1989-2006.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 VIEWED from the outside, things have been going quite well for Russia recently. The United States has scrapped, at least for now, the plan to base missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic. Germany and Russia seem to have overcome opposition in Europe to their Nord Stream pipeline, despite fears that it will solidify Russia's dominance of the European natural gas supplies. Oil prices have recovered from the disastrously low -- for Russia -- levels of last winter. And, far from buckling under pressure from the United States over sanctions against Iran, Russian leaders felt confident enough to concede almost nothing to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton during her visit to Moscow this week.
 Yet on the inside the country remains dangerously close to a serious breakdown of authority. In addition to the Muslim North Caucasus, which is already barely governable, the most vulnerable places are the company towns, which could catalyze a nationwide explosion of political turmoil. 
 Products of Stalinist industrialization, an estimated 460 company towns grew around a single plant or factory. Hence their Russian designation: ''monotowns'' (monogoroda). Most were erected, often by prison labor, in the middle of nowhere and in complete disregard for long-term urban viability, not to mention the needs and conveniences of the workers and their families. In addition to being the single employer, these ''town-forming enterprises'' are responsible for providing all social services and amenities, from clinics and schools to heat, water and electricity, for populations of 5,000 to 700,000. (There are also more than 1,000 similar but smaller ''workers' settlements.'')
 These crumbling monotowns seem frozen in the 1930s or '50s; the fat years of 2000 to 2008 have passed them by. Worse yet, many of these places were among the first victims of the plunge in industrial output last year, when production fell by almost 20 percent -- a rate of decrease unseen since 1941 and 1942, the years of the Nazi onslaught. As a result, the ''town-forming enterprises'' have begun laying off or furloughing workers, and salaries have been cut, delayed or unpaid for months. 
 For most Russian workers, there are unemployment benefits from 850 rubles to 4,900 rubles ($29 to $167) per month. (For those in the severe climate zones of the Far East, Far North and some regions of Siberia, the payments are as much as twice these amounts.) As many as two-thirds of the unemployed seem to be unaware they are even eligible for these payments, so of the estimated 6.5 million unemployed in Russia (nearly 10 percent of the work force) in July, only 2.194 million registered for benefits. And not one of the many reports about or from the monotowns that I have read so much has mentioned unemployment benefits as a source of sustenance. 
 At the same time, the local administrations in many regions have been of little help, having been bled dry by recentralization efforts during the presidency of Vladimir Putin that redirected 70 percent of local revenues to Moscow. As a result, some grocery stores have been forced to stop offering credit to customers who have not been paid for months. In particularly hard-hit monotowns, people are reported to be eating potato peels and spending their days foraging in forests for roots and berries to consume or sell for a pittance. 
 In Pikalevo, a monotown of 22,000 near St. Petersburg, citizens grew desperate after the shuttering of their plant, which produced cement, aluminum and potash. There were no prospects for work; people were without assistance of any kind. A resident told a reporter over the summer: ''We are eating -- excuse me -- grass. It's shameful.'' But when the town's heat and hot water were shut off in May -- the cement company had stopped paying the bills -- it was the last straw. After an occupation of the mayor's office brought no relief, angry Pikalevians blocked a major highway.
 A few days later, Prime Minister Putin traveled by helicopter to Pikalevo. Russian crisis management techniques haven't changed much since the days when czars threw boyars off the Kremlin walls to be torn, limb from limb, by rebellious hoi polloi below. With national television cameras rolling, Mr. Putin berated the local administration, plant managers and the plant's owner, Oleg Deripaska, formerly Russia's richest man, whose BaselCement conglomerate is now almost $30 billion in debt. He then ordered them to sign a pledge to reopen the plant. ''I did not see you sign!'' Mr. Putin barked at Mr. Deripaska. ''Come here and sign!'' (''And return the pen!'' Mr. Putin snapped afterward.) 
 Of course, neither Mr. Deripaska nor the local government will be able to keep an all-but-bankrupt enterprise open for long. And while the Kremlin's iron grip on the national news media has helped keep the monotowns out of the spotlight, Mr. Putin's very public intervention in Pikalevo is likely to encourage more protests across the country. 
 This could be catastrophic: after all, a quarter of the urban population -- 25 million people -- live in monotowns and produce up to 40 percent of Russia's G.D.P. And these struggling workers embody Russia's work force: largely immobile, because the lack of affordable housing makes it impossible to seek employment elsewhere, and sadly inflexible, thanks to their overdependence on these paternalistic, enterprise-based social services, part of what President Medvedev has denounced as the ''Soviet-style social sphere.'' Indeed, the monotowns seem more and more a bellwether of the national trend toward deepening impoverishment and further job losses. 
 According to the World Bank, this year the number of Russians below the poverty level has grown by 7.5 million to 24.6 million, or 17 percent of the population. An additional 21 percent, or almost 30 million, have incomes less than 50 percent over the poverty level. Together, that's 4 out of 10 Russians. The Federation of Independent Trade Unions predicts that up to 400,000 more Russians may become unemployed in the next three months, while the World Bank projects that the unemployment rate there will reach as high as 13 percent by the end of the year. 
 Moscow has only one obvious option: increase its financial assistance to the monotowns many times over. But there are numerous impediments to making this happen. First, with the memories of the hyperinflationary 1990s still fresh in everyone's mind, the Kremlin is wisely reluctant to print money and will instead try to stretch its remaining hard currency reserves to plug the growing budget deficit. 
 Second, though Russia already plans to raise $17 billion by issuing Eurobonds and to borrow billions more from the World Bank, the money will not materialize until next summer at the earliest. The other Group of 20 nations are themselves too strapped for cash -- and too politically skittish -- to produce an emergency assistance package. 
 Finally, even if the needed money was miraculously available today, it would take some time to disperse such enormous amounts among the hundreds of monotowns. Which is why the government's mid-August decision to appropriate 10 billion rubles, or $340 million, for assistance to just half of the communities was not only too little but is too late. 
 There may, in fact, be nothing that can be done to prevent these ticking time bombs from exploding. And as the Iranian protests recently proved, in an age of cellphone cameras and the Internet, one demonstration in one monotown could ignite a wave of nationwide protests that Russia's news media could not cover up, its riot police could not properly contain and its government may not be able to survive. 
 Certainly, this crisis sends a message of utmost urgency to a country still groggy from the oil-boom intoxication of the past eight years: go back to the decentralization and democratization reforms of the 1990s and early 2000s -- or face the political, economic and social calamity of the monotowns on a national scale.
 In fact, President Medvedev recently outlined a strategic reform agenda to break Russia of its ''humiliating dependence'' on oil and gas exports and transform an economy incapable of invention and innovation into a world leader in ''new technologies.'' 
 Just as helpful for the country's stability and progress would be the next item on Mr. Medvedev's agenda: developing a political system that is ''open, flexible and internally complex.'' This would be a Russia far different from the one that Vladimir Putin bequeathed to Mr. Medvedev -- a nation stripped of the much-needed shock absorbers of democracy, including an uncensored news media, a responsible and viable political opposition in the national Parliament and genuine local self-governance. 
 Mr. Medvedev should act on these plans decisively, now, or else no foreign policy advances or new gas pipelines will prevent the disaster of the monotowns from consuming all of Russia.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Saturday, about company towns in Russia, misstated the name of the conglomerate that owns a cement plant operator in Pikalevo. It is Basic Element; BaselCement is the name of the plant operator.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KNICKERBOCKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%); PRISONS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); GERMANY (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



497 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Impatiently Waiting

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
When, Mr. President? When will your deeds catch up to your words? The people who worked tirelessly to get you elected are getting tired of waiting. According to a Gallup poll released on Wednesday, Americans' satisfaction with the way things are going in the country has hit a six-month low, and those decreases were led, in both percentage and percentage-point decreases, by Democrats and independents, not by Republicans. 
 The fierce urgency of now has melted into the maddening wait for whenever.
 Take health care reform. Because of the president's quixotic quest for bipartisanship, he refused to take a firm stand in favor of the public option. In that wake, Democrats gutted the Baucus bill to win the graces of Olympia Snowe -- a Republican senator from a state with half the populationof Brooklyn, a senator who is defying the will of her own constituents. A poll conducted earlier this month found that 57 percent of Maine residents support the public option and only 37 percent oppose it.
 She is certainly living up to the state's motto: Dirigo. That's Latin for ''I lead.'' And the Democrats have followed. For shame.
 When will the president take the risk of standing up for his convictions on health care instead of sacrificing good policies for good politics? (Or maybe not even good politics since a one-sided compromise is the same as a surrender.)
 And health care is only one example.
 On the same weekend that gay rights protesters marched past the White House, the president again said that his administration was ''moving ahead on don't ask don't tell.'' But when? This month? This year? This term?
 As we prepare to draw down troops from the disaster that was the war in Iraq, we may commit more troops to the quagmire that is the war in Afghanistan and the government may miss its deadline for closing the blight that is the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 Obama pledged to stem the tide of job losses and foreclosures and to reform the culture of the financial sector. Well, the Dow just hit 10,000 again while the national unemployment rate is about to hit 10 percent. And the firms we propped up are set to dole out record bonuses while home foreclosures have hit record highs. Main Street is still drowning in crisis while Wall Street is awash in Champagne. When will this imbalance be corrected?
 Candidate Obama pledged to make the rebuilding of New Orleans a priority, but President Obama whisked into the city on Thursday for a visit so brief that one Louisiana congressman dubbed it a ''drive-through daiquiri summit.'' The president spent more time on the failed Olympic bid in Copenhagen than he did in the Crescent City.
 At the town hall in New Orleans, Obama appealed for patience. He said, ''Change is hard, and big change is harder.'' Is that the excuse? Now where have I heard that before? Oh, yeah. From George Bush. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Percent of people responding that, in general, they are satisfied with the way things are going in the United States. (Source: Gallup) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); IRAQ WAR (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); OLYMPICS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



498 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey Debate, Talk of Jobs, Taxes and What Pops Up on the Bathroom Scale

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: WAYNE, N.J. 

 BODY:
With New Jersey's economy sputtering, taxes rising and unemployment at 9.8 percent, it did not take long on Friday for the second debate in its governor's race to provide rollicking exchanges over the candidates' plans to create jobs, stimulate businesses and ease the property tax burden.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine chastised his two rivals -- Christopher J. Christie, the Republican, and Christopher J. Daggett, the independent -- for ''trying to pretend that the recession is only in New Jersey,'' and warned that Mr. Christie would offer tax cuts to wealthy individuals and big businesses at the expense of middle-class families. 
 Mr. Daggett criticized the governor's policies on taxes and spending and ridiculed Mr. Christie for proposing a variety of tax cuts without explaining what budget cuts he would use to pay for them.
 ''I'm going to buy Mr. Christie a calculator, because his numbers don't add up,'' Mr. Daggett said, provoking laughter from the crowd at William Paterson University. 
 Mr. Christie, who focused most of his critique on Mr. Corzine, was not about to be upstaged by Mr. Daggett, who put in a strong performance in the first debate and has seen his poll numbers rise while Mr. Christie has seen his drop.
 Referring to Mr. Daggett's plan to reduce property taxes by taxing business services, he said with a smile, ''I'll take your calculator and buy you a dictionary, because you're the only person who could take a $4 billion tax increase and call it a tax cut.''
 The most pointed moment came when Mr. Christie responded to a question about negative campaigning. Referring to an assortment of Corzine ads that show unflattering photographs of Mr. Christie's girth, he called the governor's campaign ''character assassination,'' intended to distract voters from the high taxes and rising unemployment.
 ''In case you haven't noticed, I'm slightly overweight,'' he said to the audience. ''Apparently this has become a great case for discussion in the state. I don't know what that has to do with being the governor of New Jersey. I'm waiting to get off that subject and onto another one.''
 Mr. Corzine denied trying to make an issue of Mr. Christie's physique.
 ''I don't give a hoot about Mr. Christie's weight -- I do care about what the families of New Jersey care about,'' he said.
 The debate was streamed over the Web. It will be televised at 2 p.m. Saturday on the Philadelphia station WTXF and at noon Sunday on WWOR. 
 After substantially trailing Mr. Christie in most surveys, Mr. Corzine has closed the gap, and recent polls show them very close, with Mr. Daggett's support in the teens. 
 Still, Mr. Corzine found himself playing defense, with his rivals reminding the audience that New Jersey residents face the nation's highest property taxes as well as high dropout rates in many inner-city schools.
 Mr. Corzine said the recession had forced him to make tough choices. But he expressed pride that he had managed to mitigate the downturn's impact on families by fighting to keep the state's school system among the nation's best. He also warned that Republicans would restrict abortion rights, chip away at gun control and revert to the Bush administration's economic policies.
 ''We tried that in the first eight years of this decade in America, and we lost seven million jobs,'' the governor said. Mr. Christie insisted, however, that he could help revive the state's ailing financial health and ease the burdens on middle-class families without raising taxes. He said he would seek savings by reducing the state's pension obligations and by negotiating more concessions from public workers. 
 ''The candidates to my left believe we have a revenue problem,'' Mr. Christie and. ''I believe we have a spending and debt problem.''
 Mr. Daggett said that only his plan, which would lower property taxes and eliminate property tax rebates, would offer the sweeping change needed to help make life in New Jersey more affordable.
 The candidates, who will also engage in a radio debate on Thursday, tried to frame the rest of the campaign. 
 Mr. Corzine said he would protect the middle class. ''I will not give tax cuts out to the very wealthy and big business,'' he said.
 Mr. Daggett urged voters not to be intimidated by those who say a ballot cast for an independent is a wasted vote. ''It's never wrong to vote for the right person,'' he said.
 Mr. Christie's closing statement got the most rousing response.
 ''Do you believe that New Jersey in the last four years has improved? Do you believe that if we continue the same policies we will get a different result?'' he said, to cheers from the audience. ''If you elect me, I will bring the change that is necessary.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



499 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: For a 3rd Term, Mayor Outlines Nuts-and-Bolts Goals to Suit the Lean Times

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
He swept onto the national stage with feats of social engineering, colossal works of public art and grand plans to remake the cityscape.
 But if Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wins a third term, he will return to City Hall with a less lofty agenda: preventing New Yorkers from losing their jobs and their homes.
 As the mayor and his aides plan another four years in office, the economic crisis that motivated -- and ultimately justified -- his re-election bid is at the center of their planning, precluding, at least for now, the kind of splashy proposals that have defined his two terms. 
 Congestion pricing? Try loan modifications. In a series of announcements over the next two weeks, his re-election campaign will outline plans to reduce the city's unemployment rate, stem home foreclosures, prop up small businesses and clamp down on predatory banking, according to his advisers.
 Aides said the mayor is delivering precisely what he has promised -- innovative responses to a deep recession -- and they do not rule out sweeping changes when the city's finances recover. 
 But it seems inescapable that like the city he governs, Mr. Bloomberg is temporarily scaling back his ambitions -- unfamiliar terrain for the man who snuffed out cigarettes in bars, ejected cars from much of Times Square and tried to build a football stadium on the Far West Side.
 The last time he ran for re-election, the city's economy was roaring and his largest problem was finding a safe big enough to hold a nearly $3.5 billion budget surplus. That year, 2005, the mayor vowed to develop vast swaths of Queens and Manhattan, open 100 schools, build 22,000 units of middle-income housing and cut taxes at the same time. 
 Today, his campaign pledges include keeping 3,000 households from losing their homes to foreclosure and giving emergency grants to 1,000 distressed households. ''Obviously, the extreme vulnerability of people at this moment is what was driving a lot of our thinking about policy,'' said Andrea Batista Schlesinger, a policy adviser on the Bloomberg campaign. ''How could it not?''
 So, too, is the city's yawning budget deficit -- $5 billion -- which leaves the mayor little, if any, money to set aside for new programs. During marathon policy sessions at campaign headquarters, Mr. Bloomberg has repeatedly pressed his advisers to work within existing agency budgets. ''How much will it cost?'' he asks at the end of presentations. 
 Ms. Batista Schlesinger, and her colleague Brian Mahanna said that did not mean the policy team was thinking small or for the short term. To help working-class New Yorkers save, they propose creating new, universally available bank accounts with no minimum balance or overdraft fees. Ten banks have agreed to offer them.
 They will try to inject city dollars into neighborhood credit unions to increase the pool of money that the banks can lend, a measure that would require approval from the State Legislature. They plan to install credit unions in public housing complexes to broaden access to banking services, which remain scarce in poor neighborhoods. And they want to dispatch mobile financial counselors to the homes of the elderly and the disabled. 
 ''It's a financial safety net,'' said Clifford N. Rosenthal, president of the National Federation of Community Development Credit Unions. He said the plan ''would help stop people from falling into financial distress.'' Ms. Batista Schlesinger said the measures were ''about creating and preserving a middle class.'' 
 Several of the mayor's proposals are carried over from his second term, but with post-recession twists. To meet his goal of building or preserving 165,000 affordable housing units, the mayor is emphasizing preservation over expensive new construction. For example, he will seek to capitalize on plunging real estate prices to buy several hundred unsold market-rate housing units and convert them into more affordable units; create financial incentives for owners of Mitchell-Lama buildings to extend their participation in the program, rather than turn them into market-rate housing; and make it easier for the city to seize poorly run buildings from private landlords. 
 Those plans are drawing qualified praise from housing experts and advocates, who say they represent pragmatic planning in a sputtering economy. ''When the sky was the limit, it was easy to build lots and lots of housing anywhere at almost any cost,'' said Adam Weinstein, chief executive of the Phipps Houses Group, a nonprofit New York City developer. ''Now the mayor is saying, 'Let's find projects that will move forward but not cost as much.' ''
 With thousands of lawyers facing layoffs, Mr. Bloomberg's policy advisers have proposed recruiting first-year lawyers to work at nonprofit groups that provide legal aid to immigrants. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, who started the company that bears his name, likens government to a business and constituents to customers, and several of his third-term proposals try to fine-tune that approach. A new Web site will allow aspiring small business owners to fill out all permits and licenses without visiting city agencies to pick up forms. 
 And the data-obsessed mayor will give every public school student and parent an e-mail address to encourage better communication. Truants beware: Under his plan, schools would fire off daily attendance reports to parents by e-mail, and eventually text messages. Right now, schools generally do not contact parents until a student misses 10 consecutive days. 
 ''That's pretty late in the process,'' said Mr. Mahanna, the Bloomberg adviser. ''We think we can do much better than that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); TAX LAW (70%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); LAYOFFS (57%); DISMISSALS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



500 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 299 words

PERSON: George P. Jenkins 

HEADLINE: George P. Jenkins, 94, a MetLife Chairman

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
George P. Jenkins, who as chairman of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company helped develop the company's investment strategy, including buying New York City bonds during the fiscal crisis in the 1970s, died Wednesday in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 94. 
 Metropolitan Life, which announced the death, said the cause was heart failure.
 Mr. Jenkins helped develop private placement, which refers to privately negotiated deals to sell stock and debt, as an important vehicle for institutional investment in fixed-income markets. He helped finance the emergence of Pan American World Airways as an international air carrier as well as the growth of the American Broadcasting Companies into a major television network.
 During New York City's fiscal crisis in the 1970s, Mr. Jenkins, as MetLife's chairman, was instrumental in the formation of the Municipal Assistance Corporation to resolve the city's short-term debt problem. He also was involved in MetLife's buying bonds issued by the agency.
 George Pollock Jenkins was born in Clarksburg, W.Va., on Feb. 24, 1915. He graduated from the Blair Academy in Blairstown, N.J.; from Princeton as a Phi Beta Kappa economics major; and from Harvard Business School.
 In 1938, he joined MetLife, and became an officer in 1951. He became financial vice president and chief investment officer in 1962; a director in 1964; vice chairman in 1969; and chairman in 1973. He retired in 1980 at age 65.
 Mr. Jenkins served on many corporate boards and was involved with many nonprofit organizations. His favorite was the Blair Academy, of which he was a former chairman of the board of trustees.
 Mr. Jenkins is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Marian O'Brien; his sister, Ellen Jenkins Smith; his sons James, Robert and Richard; and seven grandchildren. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George P. Jenkins (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE, ABOUT 1966) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); NEW ISSUES (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOND ISSUES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AIRLINES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%)

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (94%); ABC INC (83%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (55%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



501 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Company Is Near First Deal to Buy Stake in Oil Drilling Leases in Gulf of Mexico

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Trying to acquire a foothold in the American oil patch, a Chinese company is closing in on a deal to buy stakes in a few drilling leases in the Gulf of Mexico from a Norwegian company, an executive close to the talks said.
 The prospective purchase would not do much to quench China's huge and growing thirst for energy, which makes it the second-leading consumer of oil after the United States. But such an oil acquisition would be symbolically important as the first by China in the United States, coming four years after the Chinese company's $18.5 billion bid for the American oil company Unocal collapsed under pressure from Congress. 
 Executives at StatoilHydro, the Norwegian national oil company, would neither confirm nor deny their negotiations with the Chinese, which were first reported Friday by Dow Jones Newswires. Zongwei Xiao, a spokesman for the Chinese company, known as Cnooc, said on Saturday morning that the company has a policy of not commenting on ''rumors in the market.'' 
 But the negotiations between the companies are at an advanced stage, and a formal announcement could be made soon, according to the executive close to the talks, who said it was company policy not to discuss the negotiations. The executive cautioned that the talks were at a delicate stage. 
 The deal would include about 20 of StatoilHydro's 451 leases in the Gulf of Mexico. But oil analysts said they saw symbolism in the move, particularly when Chinese companies were striving to acquire much larger oil reserves in Africa and Latin America.
 ''By dipping their toe, they are attempting to see if it's politically safe to get into our waters,'' said Larry Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation. ''There's still a hangover from Unocal.''
 With an expanding economy and a car fleet mushrooming with its middle class, China has been searching far and wide for oil reserves. In recent years China has formed alliances and joint ventures in Venezuela, Russia and Brazil to produce oil, and Chinese companies are competing to obtain large-scale contracts for exploration and development of fields in Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa.
 Cnooc has increased its capital expenditures for exploration, development and production to a planned $6.8 billion this year, from $3.8 billion in 2007 and $5.7 billion in 2008, according to the company's 2009 strategy preview report.
 Several large American oil companies, including Chevron, ConocoPhillips and Devon Energy, have wide-ranging investments in China, from exploration and production offshore to marketing fuels and lubricants to Chinese consumers. 
 But China has had a rocky time investing in the United States energy patch. Cnooc, China National Offshore Oil Corporation, tried to make an $18.5 billion offer to buy Unocal Corporation in 2005. The Bush administration did not oppose it, but an array of powerful Democratic and Republican members of Congress strongly objected on national security grounds.
 The purchase of a small stake in the Gulf from a Norwegian company is not likely to produce as large a reaction, especially when the Obama administration is trying to strengthen economic ties with the Chinese.
 China National Petroleum Corporation held talks in March with Chevron to buy a minority interest in the Big Foot oil field in the Gulf of Mexico, but the Chinese company dropped out of the talks, apparently unhappy with the terms the American company offered. 
 The Gulf of Mexico accounts for about a quarter of the nation's oil production, and its deepwater potential makes it the most exciting arena for oil exploration in the United States. Foreign oil companies like BP, Shell, StatoilHydro and the Brazilian company Petrobras have been investing heavily in the area.
 Areas in the Middle East and Africa have more oil, but they can be challenging to explore because of political upheaval and because oil-rich countries are reluctant to cede control of their resources. 
 Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy specialist at Rice University, said it made sense for the Chinese to enter a partnership with a more experienced Western oil company in the Gulf to learn the advanced seismic and drilling technologies required to work in deep waters. She predicted little or no political opposition.
 ''It's completely unthreatening,'' she said. ''There is no reason why any American should be concerned about a Chinese company taking a small stake in the Gulf of Mexico.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS LEASES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); MINERAL LEASES (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); STATOIL ASA (58%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (56%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (51%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); STO (NYSE) (58%); STL (OSL) (58%); DVN (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BRAZIL (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); NIGERIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009



502 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Virtually Outspoken in Cuba

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Yoani Sanchez is a 34-year-old Cuban writer, editor and linguistics scholar who last week became the first blogger to win one of the Maria Moors Cabot Prizes given by Columbia University for journalism that advances inter-American understanding. Her two-year-old blog, filled with personal observations and sardonic social commentary from Havana, is called Generacion Y; it now gets more than 14 million page views a month, routinely inspires thousands of comments and can be read in an English version. But it circulates far more freely outside Cuba than within, where the Castro dictatorship regards it as counter-revolutionary.
 Internet access is tightly limited in Cuba, and Ms. Sanchez has often had to play cat-and-mouse with the authorities to make her writings available, either inside Cuba or outside of it. And when the Cabot awards were announced, she was denied an exit visa to travel to New York to receive hers, a process she chronicled on her blog. 
 But she made a video recording from a Havana park regretting the restrictions on her movements and managed to transmit them out of Cuba; they were posted on her site and played at the award ceremonies Wednesday night.
 ''We Cubans are like small children,'' she explained in the message, ''who need Father's permission to leave the house.'' 
 Here is an excerpt, translated by The New York Times, from one of Ms. Sanchez's posts this month, titled ''The Architecture of Urgency.'' Like much of her work, which she describes as an ''exorcism'' or ''therapy'' for her frustration, its bleak poetry does not focus overtly on politics, but instead conveys the texture of daily life in a crumbling totalitarian system: 
 On an island where acquiring cement, cinderblocks or steel is comparable to obtaining a bit of lunar dust, destroying in order to build has become a common practice. There are specialists in removing bricks of clay intact from the walls in which they have been embedded for 80 years; experts in disengaging blue ceramic tiles from demolished mansions; and skillful ''deconstructors'' who extract metal beams from heaps of rubble. They use what they have recovered to create their own living space, this in a country where no one can legally buy a house. The main ''quarries'' where they obtain their material are houses that have collapsed or workplaces that the state's inactivity has left abandoned for many years. They fall upon these with an efficiency in their plunder that one would wish to see in the lethargic bricklayers working for a salary.
 Some of these skillful recyclers have died when a roof collapses or when a wall too riddled with holes at its base falls. But sometimes luck smiles on them, and they find a toilet without cracks or an electrical outlet that the owners of the demolished house could not -- in their haste -- take with them. A kilometer from the looting site, a small house of tin and zinc slowly begins to change. They have added the tile pavement from a building that collapsed at the corner of Neptuno and Aguila, a piece of the exterior grating from an abandoned mansion on Linea Street and even a stained-glass window plucked from a convent in the old part of Havana. Within this home that is the fruit of looting, a family -- equally ravaged by life -- dreams of the next factory to be dismantled and carried away on their shoulders.
 Accompanying the post is a video in which a 40-year-old Cuban poet and performance artist, Amaury Pacheco, recites one of his works, ''Economic Plan,'' as images of buildings being looted and demolished flash by on the screen. Mixing street slang, mordant humor and official jargon, he mimics the Castro brothers delivering one of their rambling speeches extolling the achievements of the revolution. Because much of the word usage is idiosyncratic, there could be differing translations; here is one:
 Economy! We have fulfilled the annual plan: 1,100 street hustlers; 2,000 young prostitutes; 8,000 opportunists. Plus, 300 non-mentally disabled and the syndrome of mediocrity. Economy! In times of a Havana that is unrecognizable, By sweeping the house, you cleanse the economy. Strong legs for the rocky path, Legs that are only for the percentages of economic shame. Shameful economy! Economy of shame! Economy of shame!

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HELLO: Yoani Sanchez, left, addressed a dinner in New York via a video recording, viewable at nytimes.com/weekinreview. The dismantled building, right, is one of many plundered for materials that are reused elsewhere. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POETRY (73%); CHILDREN (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (68%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



503 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 421 words

BYLINE: By URSULA LIANG

 BODY:
JERRY STAFFORD 
 Jerry Stafford, who imagined the looks for a group of iconic British personalities (''Batty Brits,'' Page 54), wears many hats. The one by Chanel (left), he says, is ''very Silvana Mangano in 'Death in Venice,' but makes me look more like Marcel Duchamp's female alter ego, Rrose Selavy.'' (Mangano is at right.) Stafford, the creative director of the film production company Premiere Heure, was raised in Bromley, England -- ''the birthplace of punk rock,'' he says -- so he felt quite at home on the set. ''The common denominator in London is the hat, from mods to hairdos to crowns to poise.'' 
 JEAN-BAPTISTE MONDINO
 The French photographer Jean-Baptiste Mondino headed to London to shoot ''Batty Brits'' (Page 54), a task that played right into his soft spot for England, where he spent his 20s D.J.-ing in clubs. ''London is the most exotic place on earth,'' he says. ''They still have a queen! In France, we cut off their heads.'' Lately, in response to the times, he's been spinning music like Glenn Miller (left) to offset recession blahs. (''In rich periods, we listen to punk.'') So what currently keeps the lensman in the mood? The disposable quality of magazines. ''I love that what I do is being destroyed. It's wonderful to know that what you do is valuable for a period and then gone. Just like us.''
 WILL SELF 
 Although his subject in ''Bird Watching'' (Page 18) is the ever-captivating British ''It'' girl, the writer, broadcaster and sometime standup comedian Will Self considers the city of London his ''enduring muse.'' ''It's sprawling, exasperating, ensorcelling,'' he says of his hometown, where he works ''obsessively'' on a manual typewriter, writing fiction by ''slipping the gears of ordinary thought through a program of fasting, cold showers and lucid dream therapy.'' No surprise, then, that despite his vainglorious surname, Self's grooming regimen is no-frills: ''I've never knowingly moisturized, unless you count falling into puddles.'' ''Liver'' (Bloomsbury), his book of linked narratives centered on the body's detoxifying organ, is out next month. URSULA LIANG
 On the cover Beauty note: for a similar look, try Chanel Teint Innocence Fluid Makeup in Gentle Ivory, Chanel Intense Eye Pencils in Blanc and Ambre, Chanel Inimitable in Noir Obscur Mascara and Chanel Rouge Allure Laque in Santal. Hair by Tracey Cahoon at CLM using Shu Uemura Art of Hair. Makeup by Sharon Dowsett at CLM using Chanel Autumn/Winter '09 Collection. Set design by Michael Howells at CLM.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM TOP LEFT: JEAN-BAPTISTE MONDINO
EVERETT COLLECTION
MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/GETTY IMAGES
JEAN-BAPTISTE MONDINO
POLLY BORLAND
FROM BLOOMSBURY USA
 HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); POP & ROCK (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); WRITERS (64%); BIRDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EARTH (55%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (74%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



504 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
STATE BY STATE: A Panoramic Portrait of America, edited by Matt Weiland and Sean Wilsey (Ecco/HarperCollins, $16.99.) Inspired by the state guides published by the Federal Writers Project of the 1930s, Weiland and Wilsey asked 50 top-notch writers to ''tell us a story about your state, the more personal the better, something that captures the essence of the place.'' The funny, moving collection that resulted shows that despite the homogenizing effects of mass culture, Americans still feel defined by the state they call home. 
 INDIGNATION, by Philip Roth (Vintage, $15.) The narrator of Roth's economical new novel is dead, killed during the Korean War, as the reader learns about a quarter of the way through. He recounts his life as the son of a Newark kosher butcher and as an earnest student at a small Ohio college. In The Times, Michiko Kakutani called ''Indignation'' a ''darkly comic exercise'' in ''the folly of thinking that being a hard-working A student'' will protect one ''from the mad vagaries of fate.'' 
 DESCARTES' BONES: A Skeletal History of the Conflict Between Faith and Reason, by Russell Shorto (Vintage, $15.) After his death in Sweden in 1650, Descartes was subject to three different burials; at some point, his skull was separated from the rest of his body. This provides Shorto with both the framework for a detective story and an apt metaphor for the work of a philosopher who explored the mind-body problem. Along the way, Shorto complicates our understanding of Descartes by describing the religious context of his unrelenting rationalism in what our reviewer, Gary Rosen, called an ''elegantly written'' feat of ''intellectual storytelling.'' 
 GOLDENGROVE, by Francine Prose (Harper Perennial, $13.99.) In the summer after her beautiful older sister's accidental death, a 13-year-old comes to resemble her as she spends time with the sister's boyfriend. This perceptive exploration of ''that hushed and watery border zone where we live alongside the dead'' is resolutely unsentimental. 
 FRED ASTAIRE, by Joseph Epstein (Yale University, $15.) As part of Yale's Icons of America series, Epstein has written a ''very readable and glowing'' brief portrait of Astaire, our reviewer, David Thomson, said. Following Astaire from his childhood in Omaha through his unforgettable movies, Epstein explains how he was able to ''elevate the entertainment of popular dance into an art . . . by dint of superior taste and sublime style.'' 
 DEAF SENTENCE, by David Lodge (Penguin, $15.) ''Deafness is comic, as blindness is tragic,'' says the protagonist of Lodge's 13th novel, a retired linguistics professor whose worsening deafness is a constant reminder of his diminished hopes. This affecting meditation on aging and death also manages to be consistently witty. 
 EPILOGUE: A Memoir, by Anne Roiphe (Harper Perennial, $14.99.) ''Grief is in two parts,'' Roiphe, a novelist, writes. ''The first is loss. The second is the remaking of life.'' In this book about her experience after her husband's death in 2005 (ending their happy marriage of 39 years), she touches on both. ''There is nothing to do but start forward,'' she concludes. 
 WRITING IN THE DARK, by David Grossman. Translated by Jessica Cohen (Picador, $14.) In these essays, Grossman, the Israeli novelist and peace advocate, defends the necessity of literature in a violent world. ''Literature can repeatedly redeem for us the tragedy of the one from the statistics of the millions,'' he says. The book includes his famous speech on the second Lebanon war of 2006, in which his 21-year-old son was killed. 
 CANCER VIXEN: A True Story, by Marisa Acocella Marchetto (Pantheon, $16.95.) This graphic memoir by Marchetto, a cartoonist, energetically tells the story of her cancer, starting with the diagnosis three weeks before her wedding. ''It's all about laughing in the face of death,'' she told an interviewer. The book is full of useful information as well as details of Marchetto's ''fabulista life'' as a New York City A-lister. 
 TOO CLOSE TO THE SUN: The Audacious Life and Times of Denys Finch Hatton, by Sara Wheeler (Random House, $18.) Finch Hatton settled in British East Africa in 1911 and wore a brown velvet smoking jacket when he wasn't in the bush. Karen Blixen fell in love with the handsome, intelligent pilot and war hero in 1918, and wrote about him in ''Out of Africa'' under her pen name, Isak Dinesen. (Eventually he left her for a younger woman and died in a plane crash soon after.) ''He was the open road made flesh,'' Wheeler writes, emphasizing his love of the land and his grief for the loss of wild Africa. 
 THE WASTED VIGIL, by Nadeem Aslam (Vintage International, $15.) Aslam, a Pakistani novelist who lives in England, brings together the lives of five characters from different countries in contemporary Afghanistan, which he has visited extensively. He is unflinching in his examination of torture, rape and gore, but is also capable of tenderness. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); KOREAN WAR (69%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); RELIGION (65%); LINGUISTICS (63%); DEAFNESS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



505 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: The Oceans and Climate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Yes We Can (Pass Climate Change Legislation)'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 11): 
 I was dismayed to read about the bipartisan compromise that Senators John Kerry and Lindsey Graham described. 
 Using the oceans as a bargaining chip is bad policy. Expanded oil drilling in our oceans puts coastal economies and ocean wildlife at risk, and drilling makes no sense in legislation to address climate change. Such a bill should bolster clean, renewable energy, not expanded, dirty and dangerous oil drilling. 
 A meaningful climate bill should reduce carbon emissions enough to protect our oceans from acidification, rather than increasing oil and gas drilling off our coasts. 
 Oil drilling is dirty business. Spills and environmental catastrophes continue to occur -- one oil drilling platform has been gushing oil for nearly two months off the coast of Australia after two attempts to cap it have failed. If this spill occurred in United States waters, it would devastate our fisheries, ocean wildlife and coastal tourism. 
 Scientists agree that a climate tipping point is nigh. Let's pass climate legislation that enhances food and energy security for all and is a clean break from our dirty energy past. 
 Ted Danson Venice, Calif., Oct. 16, 2009
 The writer, the actor, is a member of the board of directors of Oceana, an ocean conservation group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); OCEANS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); FISHERIES (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (54%)

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%); JOHN KERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



506 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: A Lifeline Not Made in the U.S.A.

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mickey Meece contributed reporting from Georgetown, Ky.

 BODY:
Millions of Americans work for foreign companies operating in the United States, but their stories are rarely told. As the country pulls out of a devastating recession, foreign employers could help revive the economy.
 This article is adapted from ''The Selling of the American Economy: How Foreign Companies Are Remaking the American Dream,'' by Micheline Maynard, a reporter for The New York Times. The book, to be published on Tuesday by Broadway Business, explores the impact of foreign investment on American workers, communities and the political scene.
 NEVADA RYAN, 35, is from a family of crop-dusters. Her grandfather, father, mother -- and Ms. Ryan herself -- have all spent countless hours flying planes that drop plumes of chemicals on corn and cotton fields near her hometown of Sumner, Miss. 
 Time spent as a child in those nimble little planes inspired her to get her pilot's license and study engineering. But the kind of attractive job she wanted could not be found when she was attending college in Mississippi during the 1990s. So, like many others, she left the area to find employment -- going first to Charleston, S.C., then to Atlanta. 
 In 2006, she heard of a chance to return to her home state, for a job at American Eurocopter, part of the EADS consortium, the European airplane and military equipment maker. 
 EADS planned to build a second plant in Columbus, Miss., and make rescue helicopters for the United States Army. Ms. Ryan applied, was hired as a flight test engineer and immediately flew to Germany for training.
 Asked how she and her co-workers felt about owing their livelihoods to a company based overseas, Ms. Ryan, 35, responded, ''I don't think anybody here has a problem with it.''
 As scores of companies are hemorrhaging jobs, closing plants and slashing compensation, foreign employers have become a lifeline for Ms. Ryan and millions of other Americans. While they haven't been immune from the recession, foreign-owned companies in the United States have a work force of more than 5.3 million, or some 3.5 percent of all workers, and are spread across the 50 states in sectors from manufacturing to retail and publishing. If these jobs did not exist, the nation's unemployment rate would be above 13 percent. 
 Investments in the United States by big car companies like Toyota, Honda, Nissan and Mercedes-Benz have received the greatest share of attention over the past two decades. But there are also tens of thousands of Americans working for companies like the Tata Group of India, which recently reopened the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan and makes Eight O'Clock Coffee; Haier, the Chinese appliance maker, with a refrigerator plant in South Carolina and an impressive headquarters in a landmark building in Manhattan; and Nestle, the Swiss food company, which employs hundreds to make Nesquik and Coffee-Mate in Indiana.
 Even Anheuser-Busch, America's best-selling beer maker, is now owned by a Belgian company, InBev. 
 Foreign companies may touch a nerve in American society and may still be an object of fear and distrust among many, who view foreign investment as a threat to the American worker and way of life. But foreign investment isn't simply about helping workers earn a weekly paycheck. Foreign companies that invest in the United States are having a significant -- and largely positive -- impact on not only the lives of workers, but also the health of the American economy and society as a whole. 
 When foreign companies open a factory or buy a business in a region they also stimulate local commerce and create a demand for more homes, shops, schools and restaurants. They contribute money to schools, parks and towns, and lure consultants and technicians who then provide more jobs. This ripple effect explains why governors, mayors and economic development officials are so eager for foreign investors. 
 Without foreign investment, says Mitch Daniels, the Republican governor of Indiana, ''we'd be a Dust Bowl.''
 IN Ms. Ryan's case, a job with a foreign company was an opportunity to move back home and be close to relatives and friends. But whether home is Mississippi or Michigan, Nashville or New York -- or even if moving home isn't the goal at all -- foreign companies provide American workers with more than jobs. They also provide them with options.
 Judy Flynn, one of Ms. Ryan's co-workers, got a second chance at a manufacturing career through American Eurocopter. For 20 years, she ran the purchasing operations at United Technologies in Columbus, Miss., an American-owned company that supplied auto parts to customers like G.M. and Chrysler. She started on the assembly line and spent 10 years assembling motors before she was promoted to an office job and then to purchasing supervisor. 
 But soon, Ms. Flynn, who saw every parts order that came into the factory, noticed that requisitions for parts the plant had previously been fulfilling were instead being sent to its operations in China. ''I had an idea that something was happening globally,'' she said. Indeed it was. In 1999, United Technologies put her division up for sale, and in 2003, it closed the plant entirely, putting its 2,000 employees out of work. 
 Ms. Flynn, the mother of three daughters, with no college degree -- ''I had 'life experience,' '' she said with a smile -- applied at American Eurocopter as soon as she heard it planned to open its original facility, a plant making civilian rescue helicopters, at the nearby Golden Triangle Airport.
 She landed an office job, and after four years worked her way to supervisor in the materials department. Known to her co-workers as ''Miss Judy,'' she is easy to spot by her bright blue lanyard, bearing her company identification card and lapel pins with pictures of American Eurocopter aircraft. 
 Still, for her, as for many American Eurocopter employees, the adjustment wasn't so easy. In the company's first year, turnover was rampant as workers struggled to adjust to the painstaking routine of assembling helicopters. Inside the factory, the time-consuming work was as challenging as a skilled trades position in a car plant, demanding precision, attention to detail and a reasonable understanding of helicopter mechanics. It was a departure from the routine of a typical factory. 
 The dropout rate was high, ''mainly driven by the fact of people not knowing very well what we were doing,'' said Marc Paganini, the chief executive of American Eurocopter. Executives soon realized that something had to be done to protect their new investment. Most of the original workers had left, taking what little experience they had with them, and newcomers were making all kinds of mistakes, which were costly given that the helicopters being assembled were used for rescue missions, where lives were quite literally at stake.
 But instead of giving up on their workers and replacing them with more-experienced counterparts from overseas, managers decided to spend more time interviewing and assessing American workers, and to provide more training once they were on the plant floor. 
 Ms. Flynn said the attitude at the plant became, ''We will help you to succeed; we are determined you will succeed here.'' Soon, the turnover slowed, and a second plant opened next door.
 The factories gave EADS the opening it wanted in the American market, letting it compete for an even bigger prize: a $35 billion contract to build refueling tanker planes for the Air Force, which it landed in February 2008 in a stiff competition with Boeing. 
 EADS, which subsequently lost the contract after the General Accounting Office found flaws in the way the work was awarded, plans to try again for the deal, as does Boeing. If it succeeds, EADS plans to build an assembly plant in Mobile, Ala.
 ''From the very beginning of the creation of EADS, we were looking at doing more in the United States,'' Mr. Paganini said. ''We knew if we built here, we could sell here.'' 
 FACTORY work might sound dull and unappealing to many Americans. But for those struggling to make ends meet, an assembly line job at a foreign-owned factory is a coveted opportunity. 
 Brian Howard lives with his wife, Stephanie, and their sons, Jordan and Dillon, in a new three-bedroom house with green shutters in Williamstown, Ky. The house, custom built, has furniture and cabinets made by Mr. Howard, an amateur woodworker. The neighborhood is dotted with new homes, some owned by his co-workers at Toyota in Georgetown, Ky., nearby.
 When Mr. Howard learned about the plant, he sent for an application card. But he hadn't yet finished college, there was no automotive experience in his background, and he knew little of what to expect from working at a car plant, let alone one run by a Japanese company. So he first went back to school, receiving his degree in business management at Northern Kentucky University in 1989, before applying at the plant.
 Twenty years later, he is a team leader, managing a group of workers in the paint department at one of the two assembly plants at the Georgetown complex, which also includes an engine plant and employs 7,800 workers. Most, like Mr. Howard, had college degrees and little experience on an assembly line before they joined Toyota. Competition was stiff: as soon as the state opened the application process, more than 80,000 people submitted cards hoping to be considered for the original 2,000 jobs, or 40 applicants for every position. 
 For Mr. Howard, the main attraction was the pay and benefits, such as health care and a retirement plan, and the opportunity to advance within the plant. He began at about $20 an hour, and now earns roughly $25 an hour, about $8 over the national average, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Even with concessions the union made during the devastating auto slump, veteran workers at Detroit plants are still paid slightly more, about $28 an hour. But workers who will be hired in the future -- if any -- will receive about half that.
 The wages and ample opportunities for advancement may help explain why unions are absent at many foreign-owned plants. So does location. Many, though not all, foreign-owned operations have been in Southern states that are most likely to have right-to-work laws. These laws mean workers can't be legally required to join a union, even if one is organized in the workplace. (Foreign car plants built in Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia and Kentucky are not in right-to-work states, but the U.A.W. has either not tried, or failed, to organize them.) 
 No matter where they are located, it will be the actions of the foreign companies themselves that will determine whether their workers stay independent or choose to join unions.
 ''The best selling point that unions have is that workers in foreign-owned companies are employed at management's largess,'' said Gary N. Chaison, a professor of industrial studies at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. Beyond labor laws, he added, ''they have no protection except for what management will let them have.'' Unions could have a chance, he said, if the companies institute mass layoffs in a ''clearly arbitrary, uncalled for and unfair manner.''
 A decision by Toyota to follow G.M. in pulling out of a joint venture in California has angered the U.A.W. and California legislators, who have vowed to find a new owner for the car plant. But in general, management at foreign-owned factories knows that its best weapon against unions in this economy is a job. 
 Asked about the prospect of a union in the American Eurocopter plant in Columbus, Miss., Ms. Ryan said, ''If it ain't broke, don't fix it.'' She is not so dismissive about the idea of eventually working for an American employer -- if it could offer a job equivalent to the one she holds now and if she could stay in her home state, which both seem unlikely.
 ''I'm not saying I wouldn't work for an American company; I would love to,'' she said. '' Maybe someday the tide will turn and there will be one that invests here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nevada Ryan is a flight test engineer in Mississippi for American Eurocopter, owned by a European consortium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
''We knew if we built here, we could sell here,'' said Marc Paganini of American Eurocopter. Its parent had long looked at expansion in the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (86%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PESTICIDES (75%); HELICOPTERS (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (69%); CLOSINGS (69%); ARMIES (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (54%); EUROCOPTER SA (54%); NESTLE SA (50%); TATA GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (54%); EAD (MCE) (54%); NESN (SWX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (55%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



507 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR RUTH REICHL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Clearing the Table

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
 As the editor of Gourmet, now defunct, do you discern any larger meaning in the fact that your beloved magazine is closing, a casualty of the recession, just as your new cooking show makes its debut on PBS? And what should we expect to see on ''Gourmet's Adventures With Ruth''? It's me romping around in cooking schools with all these terrific people. Laos was incredible. I learned so much in Laos. I learned that fried silkworm larvae are delicious. I learned how to make ant-egg salad.
 Ant-egg salad? You probably need l,000 eggs to make a teaspoon of egg salad. No. We mixed it with herbs and spices and then the ants started wandering in. They're tiny, but they're a free source of protein in a very poor country. Laos is a country where everything is eaten. When I came back, I would find myself chopping parsley and thinking: Why am I throwing these stems away? They're perfectly edible. 
 As someone who grew up in Greenwich Village in the bohemian '50s, you've always had a sense of social responsibility. My idea of good living is not about eating high on the hog. Rather, to me good living means understanding how food connects us to the earth.
 Still, so many of the recipes in Gourmet are rich, bordering on decadent. Why would anyone want to cook, for instance, peanut-butter pie with candied bacon? We never tried to be a diet magazine. That's not what people came to us for. But also, if you look at ''Gourmet Today,'' it is not filled with tons of fattening food. 
 You're referring to your new cookbook, a 1,000-plus-page behemoth. Is it an updated version of the last Gourmet cookbook? No, it's a completely different book. What this book is about is how to use all the new ingredients you find at both the farmers' market and the supermarket, including lacinato kale, egg-roll wrappers, frozen edamame and at least a dozen varieties of salsa. 
 Who collects royalties if the book sells well? Conde Nast. I'm not making a penny. I did it as part of my job, and it's a book I'm really proud of.
 How did you learn that your job no longer exists? Who told you? Si. 
 Meaning S. I. Newhouse, who owns Conde Nast Publications. In an e-mail message or in person? It was not an e-mail.
 Sounds like phone. It was a conversation. I wouldn't in a million years have imagined this. 
 Did you ask him why Conde Nast was shuttering Gourmet while keeping afloat some 18 other magazines, including Bon Appetit and such giants of intellectual life as Golf World and Golf Digest? I was so stunned, I basically just listened. 
 Do you think he has considered closing The New Yorker? No. I would bet my life on that. I think that Si loves that magazine, and I think -- this is just my opinion -- it will remain untouched, and it will be there forever.
 Gourmet's circulation is about the same as that of The New Yorker -- you have about a million subscribers, right? I think it was more than that. It has a legendary renewal rate. They would never tell me exactly what it was. I kept asking: ''What does that mean? What areyou talking about?'' And they just kept saying: ''It's great. People buy Gourmet forever.''
 Did you see Jon Stewart the other night, when he made a Gourmet joke? I did not. What did he say?
 He mentioned that Conde Nast was shutting down four magazines -- Gourmet, along with Modern Bride, Elegant Bride and Cookie -- and suggested that instead they could be combined into a new cost-cutting magazine called Pregnant Gourmet Bride. That's great! I'm amazed no one has told me that. I'm amazed my son didn't at least e-mail me that. 
 Maybe he was too busy cooking. Nick is now at college, and he and his friends cook everything. 
 It's good to see a whole generation of men who cook. He would never buy a nonsustainable fish or a factory-raised animal, and he and his friends give me enormous hope for the future. 
 INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIONA ABOUD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); PACKAGING EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (90%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



508 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Coffee, Tea, Then Equality

BYLINE: By AMY BLOOM. 
Amy Bloom's book of short stories, ''Where the God of Love Hangs Out,'' will be published in January.

 BODY:
WHEN EVERYTHING CHANGED
 The Amazing Journey of American Women From 1960 to the Present
 By Gail Collins
 Illustrated. 471 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $27.99
 During the last 15 years, there have been at least a dozen sitcoms starring physically unattractive, infantile, selfish, dimwitted husbands (ugly babies, really), unconditionally loved by their beautiful, clever, kindhearted and competent wives. It is hard to think of a single show in which this premise was reversed. Did feminism fail? Less than 3 percent of stay-at-home parents are men. Did feminism fail? This year, the radio host and comedian Steve Harvey wrote in ''Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man'' that ''men want women to act like ladies at all times.'' The book has been on the best-seller list for months. Did feminism fail?
 Gail Collins's smart, thorough, often droll and extremely readable account of women's recent history in America not only answers this question brilliantly, but also poses new ones about the past and the present, as she explicates moments that were widely recorded and illuminates scenes that were barely remarked upon at the time. (Remember Betty Friedan? How about Ella Baker? Or Phyllis Schlafly, whom Collins presents as a smart, ruthless mother of six who arguably owed much of her success to the women's movement?) 
 Collins, a columnist for the New York Times Op-Ed page, begins ''When Everything Changed'' with the best summary of American women's social and political history that I've read. Rolling forward from a quick vignette in 1960 in which a secretary, Lois Rabinowitz, went to court to pay her boss's speeding ticket, Collins makes it clear that whether it's 1960 or 2009, secretaries have to do unpleasant things for their bosses. But the nature of those tasks has changed quite a bit. Rabinowitz was rebuked by the judge for wearing slacks. Rebuked, hell. He sent her home to change her clothes, instructed her husband to use a tighter rein and told reporters that it upset him to see ''women tearing themselves down from this pedestal.''
 Collins calls our attention to the experience of flight attendants to illustrate one of the ways our world has changed since then. They no longer have to be 25, size 4 and single. Sometimes they are men; sometimes they are grandmothers. When the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was established, Collins tells us, its first complainants were stewardesses. 
 The commission's clerical staff was ''still unpacking when Barbara Roads, a union leader for the flight attendants, and another stewardess arrived. . . .'This woman came up to us, two blondes in stewardess uniforms, and she said, 'What are you doing here?' Roads recalled. The two women . . . told them about the airline ban on marriage, the age discrimination and the endless measurements to check for weight gain. 'They couldn't believe it.' ''
 In a 1964 Congressional hearing, when airline executives testified that it was imperative for businessmen that attractive women light their cigars and fix drinks, Representative Martha Griffiths said, ''What are you running, an airline or a whorehouse?'' and the conversation began to change.
 Collins aims, she writes, to tell social history ''by combining the public drama of the era with the memories of regular women who lived through it all.'' She digs up stories from headlines of the past that a sensitive reader must choose to read as pointed farce. In 1964, the conservative, elderly Representative Howard Smith of Virginia, chairman of the Rules Committee, offered an amendment to add women to the list of groups to be protected from workplace discrimination. He did it as a last-ditch effort to block the Civil Rights Act. He did it, as he said later, as a joke. Then there's the heartbreaking: When Rosa Parks, a lifelong activist, attended a community meeting in Montgomery, male ministers ''monopolized the podium and told her she wouldn't be required to speak. 'You have said enough,' they assured her.'' Or that glorious day in 1963 when a quarter of a million people gathered to hear Martin Luther King's extraordinary speech, ''and very few people noticed that black women had been almost completely cut out of the event.'' Though no women were on the speaking list, the men ''kept pointing out that they had, after all, asked Marian Anderson to sing.'' 
 These were times, Collins writes, in which women ''were not meant to compete with men, to act independently of men, to earn their own bread, or to have adventures on their own. . . . They could not go into business without their husbands' permission or get credit without male co-signers. . . . Then, suddenly, everything changed. The cherished convictions about women and what they could do were smashed in the lifetime of many of the women living today.''
 The scale of that change is most evident in the brief follow-up interviews and epilogues that Collins offers at the end of the book. She has an editorial eye for the telling detail, but there's also an unmistakable modesty on her part. She tends to conclude anecdotes and chapters with a quote from a woman who was part of the event, not with her own authorial apercu. Our country got used to the idea that most women would work outside the home, and in the 1980s, as Collins writes, it got used to the idea ''that women would not only make money to help support the family but also have serious careers.'' She describes this as a decade for women's optimism. More women than men attended college; the gender gap in pay began to narrow. (If you don't want any gap at all, remain young, single and childless.) One of the many pleasures of ''When Everything Changed'' is that Collins also reminds us of what women did in private -- stopped shaving their legs, started shaving their legs, took the pill -- and what they wore: Shoulder pads! Miniskirts! And as Collins mentions, with no real reproach, impractical shoes. (She knows they're bad, she does. But she understands the appeal.)
 And now, women have run for president, ''fought for their country, argued before the Supreme Court, performed heart surgery'' and done a hundred things that would have been truly unimaginable 50 years ago -- a time that is equally unimaginable to any woman under 30. Women can now take responsibility for themselves, particularly for their economic well-being and reproductive rights, and that has changed everything. 
 Collins makes her strongest case, and showcases her finest writing, on the subject of what feminism has not been able to do. It is not easy to attentively raise your children while holding down a good and demanding job. Feminism did not remake the world of relationships. It did not change the fact that when Julia Roberts's adorable hooker was carried off by Richard Gere's handsome businessman at the end of ''Pretty Woman,'' none of us would have preferred to watch him rest his silvery head against her lovely shoulder, snuggling, safe at last in her strong arms. Feminism did not resolve the conflicting desires for passion and domesticity, familiarity and romance, and the irreconcilable differences between those who love the Marx Brothers and those who prefer the Three Stooges -- but it did not fail. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: When they were stewardesses: a flight for executives, with all the trimmings, reserved for men only.(PHOTOGRAPH FROM UNITED AIRLINES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (84%); WRITERS (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); BESTSELLERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (63%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: When Everything Changed (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



509 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2009 FERRARI CALIFORNIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Color It Red, Like a Sea of Ink

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

DATELINE: DANA POINT, Calif. 

 BODY:
 A NEW Corsa-red Ferrari California convertible, its top down, pulled to a stop under the immense porte-cochere at the St. Regis Monarch Beach resort. An eager valet sprinted over to offer assistance. This was exactly the type of car he would park by the main entrance -- not in the garage -- to be flaunted like a trophy, a sign of the stature and allure of the ocean-view resort.
 The California is aptly named; it is a perfect pace car for the Land of the Endless Summer. Here, idling in front of an opulent resort in Orange County, the car was a portrait of grand touring panache -- except the scene it inhabited this day was rather surrealistic. 
 The couple in the Ferrari weren't checking in, they were stopping to see if the sprawling resort -- the only California hotel to get five stars from Mobil -- was still open. It was, but the place, which sprawls over the hills above Monarch Bay, was practically empty. 
 For good reason: the faux-Tuscan village of alabaster and terra cotta had just been seized by creditors. We were visiting on the day Citigroup found itself in possession of a fancy ocean-view hotel, and it seemed nobody had tipped off the poor, earnest parking valet.
 The Monarch Beach had already drawn notice as the site of an infamous September 2008 retreat for a subsidiary of the American International Group, the insurance giant. Just days after taxpayers tossed A.I.G. an $85 billion lifeline, sales agents for AIG General racked up a $442,000 tab here, including $150,000 for food and $23,000 at the spa.
 Since then, Monarch Beach has become something of a symbol for unjustifiable excess. Conventions, which once accounted for up to 80 percent of revenue, evaporated. The Orange County Business Journal reported that the summer occupancy rate was only 15 percent. Bnet Travel, an online travel industry publication, called the resort ''a very fancy white elephant.''
 Those missing guests surely include some of the privileged people who used to buy Ferraris, and certainly the Italian sports car maker is not immune from their economic distress. Instead of the usual three- to five-year backlog of orders for its new cars, the company says the California has a waiting list of only 18 months. As Ferraris go, it's almost a buyer's market.
 The California is the company's least expensive model by far. With a base price of less than $200,000 (as tested, $216,553), it is a relative bargain by Ferrari standards. Its standard features include a 453-horsepower V-8 engine (a detuned version of the F430's power plant), a 7-speed dual-clutch transmission, ceramic brakes and racing-inspired traction and launch controls that enable 3.5-second runs from a stop to 60 miles an hour.
 But detractors point to what they say are compromises:
 ''The head unit for the stereo and navigation system is straight out of a Chrysler minivan.'' That's damning, but not really true. Yes, the Chrysler MyGIG infotainment system is similar, but Chrysler did not develop it; a Canadian company, QNX, did. The Ferrari uses a unit made by Harman/Becker, a QNX affiliate. Regardless, it is a high-quality unit.
 ''The four chrome tailpipes are useless -- they're not connected to anything.'' Yes, the exhaust principally exits elsewhere under the car, but the pipes help to dissipate heat, Ferrari says. (Do not touch: they are hot!)
 ''It looks as if Peugeot designed the grille.'' Though it might have seemed so when the car was introduced a year ago in Los Angeles, I no longer see the resemblance. Here, the Pininfarina studio's styling is lovingly executed, and the razor-sharp lines fairly ooze Ferrari DNA.
 ''It has a big fat rear end.'' Yes, the California gets a standard rear parking sensor because you can't see out when backing up. Its bustle is big, but that's because the retractable hardtop has to fit inside. Is the backside grossly disproportionate compared with other open-air grand touring cars? Not really.
 And then there is this basic question from the skeptics: Who wants to drive a Ferrari with an automatic transmission and a V-8 engine mounted in the front?
 Well, I do, for one.
 It's hard to believe Ferrari has never before made a car with a front-mounted V-8; indeed, in its earliest conceptual form, this car was destined to be a Maserati.
 But any concern about whether the California is a true Ferrari will be blown out the fake exhausts by the engine's soul-satisfying salvos. The car's curb appeal is seductive, judging by the covetous looks it attracted, but its rear-biased proportions are a bit harsh by Ferrari standards.
 The double-wishbone suspension can be harsh, too, especially in sport mode, but I found it satisfyingly unflappable over a range of surfaces. (An active computer-controlled suspension is optional.) In automatic mode, the transmission balks at slow speeds; in manual mode, you may tire of shifting through so many gears. 
 The optional back seat of my test car was done in caramel leather that looked good enough to eat. It added almost $6,000 to the price and, while beautiful, was tiny, plank-hard and unfit for human habitation.
 The California is a vehicle upon which Ferrari has staked much. At its factory in Maranello, Italy, an area once graced by rows of blood-red racing cars has been cleared out and converted to a state-of-the-art assembly line dedicated to the California. 
 While Ferraris were traditionally built by hand, this one gets its window glass from the company's first robotic assembly unit -- a jarring sight in an Old World shop where seamstresses still hand-sew the upholstery.
 Californias creep down the line by millimeters a day, five days a week, at a pace that will churn out 3,000 a year. That's a minuscule amount in the total universe of the automobile industry. But it is a veritable avalanche for a company that once (40 years ago) balked at the idea of building even a run of 50 cars; in one notable instance, Enzo Ferrari refused to build more than 25. But times change, as does Ferrari.
 Profitability usually trumps most other considerations in today's auto industry. And who's to say what the sustainable balance is between volume and exclusivity? Or for that matter, where's the line between the tasteful and the vulgar? In today's recessionary times, can luxury co-exist with lowered expectations? Just ask the valet at Monarch Beach.
 INSIDE TRACK: Luxury for leaner times.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A car review last Sunday erroneously attributed a distinction to the St. Regis Monarch Beach, a luxury resort where valets are eager to provide first-class parking for cars like the Ferrari California. It is one of several hotels in California -- not the only one -- that has a five-star rating from the Mobil Travel Guide.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOTEL CALIFORNIA: The new Ferrari convertible visiting, but not checking in at, the St. Regis Monarch Beach resort.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY GARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AU1)
 PIONEER: California is the first Ferrari with a V-8 up front.(pg. AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); BEACHES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SPORTS CARS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); COUNTIES (70%); INSURANCE (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (82%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (82%); 8685 (TSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



510 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE STREET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Shindig

BYLINE: By BILL CUNNINGHAM

 BODY:
The spectacle to remember at the Paris fashion collections two weeks ago was without a doubt Chanel. More than 3,000 guests turned out at 10 in the morning, many in full Chanel autumn regalia -- specifically, pleated organza cuffs and collars on black jackets that crisply pronounced the femininity that is a hallmark of French style. Hundreds of women wore variations of the look. Karl Lagerfeld, the house's head designer, created a Marie Antoinette-style barn inside the Grand Palais; the models showing his spring clothes emerged from a giant haystack. The show ended with several models having a romp in the hay with a boyfriend. 
 One itched to give an old-fashioned hoedown in the setting, with guests in lumberjack shirts, jeans and boots dancing away the recession blues. I remember so well square-dancing evenings in America in the late 1930s and '40s, bobbing for apples included. 
 But in Paris they do things differently. The guests in their white jabots and boaters with oversize crowns wore shoes that would not do to do-si-do -- heels cut in half and reattached with a jade ring, platforms with heels ringed in pearls.
 In one fell swoop, Mr. Lagerfeld captured the magic that is Paris as the chestnut leaves fall. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILL CUNNINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%)

COMPANY: CHANEL SAS (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3961 COSTUME JEWELRY & COSTUME NOVELTIES, EXCEPT PRECIOUS METAL (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (92%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



511 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONNECTICUT DINING NEW HAVEN; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Classic French, Contemporary Flair

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE LYNESS

 BODY:
THERE was a time in America when eating well at a restaurant of note usually meant eating French. France was synonymous with the most cultured dining experience and the very best that cuisine could offer, with exquisite tastes and luxuriant ingredients.
 These days, other cuisines, notably Italian, but also American, Spanish and Asian, have edged French dining out of the limelight. Its reputation, once so well burnished, suffers from complaints that it is too rich, too fancy, too elitist and too expensive.
 But a well-executed French meal is a profoundly satisfying affair, a magical combination of exquisite cooking technique, well-made wines and professional service. Union League Cafe in New Haven delivers on all fronts.
 Union League is a brasserie, and true to the genre, it's less formal and more lively than an upscale French restaurant. The tables are covered with white butcher paper so diners need have no fear about digging in. The ambience is relaxed but exhilarating. The Beaux-Arts room -- grand, magnificently tall and comfortable -- bustles without being too noisy, and the formality of the service creates a delicious intimacy for the diner. 
 Though the service is not always as professional as it is in France, Union League is one of the few restaurants in the area where your table will be crumbed between courses and you can count on having the correct silverware for your dish. 
 The cuisine is classic French informed by a contemporary hand. The roast chicken -- breast and thigh meat boned -- was almost inconceivably moist, the mashed potatoes buttery, the whole infused with the taste of black truffle. The veal chop, nestled in a ceramic dish with roasted potatoes, was also ultramoist, perhaps because Jean Pierre Vuillermet, Union League's chef and owner, poaches the entire rack sous vide (vacuum-packed in plastic) before the chops are cut and roasted to order. 
 Breast of pheasant, served with a sweet potato mousseline, the leg meat chopped and cooked into a buttery quiche tartlet, was tasty, although it was more succulent the first time I ate it there a few years ago. 
 A thick slice of foie gras terrine, accompanied by a fistful of mache lettuce, seasoned with walnut oil, was as good as any I've tasted. It is unfortunate that the bite-sized gougeres, proffered as amuse-bouches, were not served hot, but the duck confit was divine: The meat, boned and shredded, and topped with a round of thin, crisp potato galette, was neither too salty nor too fatty. At lunch, the croque-monsieur was superb. 
 The contemporary touches often show up in Mr. Vuillermet's judicious use of spice and sweet. Gulf shrimp was paired with artichokes and roasted figs for an appetizer, and finished with a delicate sweet-and-sour sauce of shrimp bisque, chestnut honey and sherry vinegar; I could eat that sauce with anything. 
 Sipping a chicken consomme (a special one night) infused with lemon grass, garnished with thin julienne of carrot, celery and leek, along with bits of crab, was like tasting a fragrance. Tuna carpaccio (another special) was a plate covered with very thin slices of pale-pink tuna that had been coated with a discrete mixture of cinnamon, star anise, Sichuan peppercorn, clove and fennel and barely seared; a perfectly dressed Caesar salad crowned the center. 
 Wild striped bass, topped with a tiny dice of zucchini, was a bit tough, but medallions of tuna coated with black and white sesame seeds were cooked very rare, as requested.
 The success of the restaurant is a result of the longtime friendship between Mr. Vuillermet and his general manager and sommelier, Jean Michel Gammariello. The two Frenchmen met when they were young. As roommates and entry-level cooks, they imbibed the classics under the chef Paul Blanc at Au Chapon Fin, near Lyon. 
 They moved around, as chefs do, each cooking with some of the big names in the business, including Joel Robuchon, Jean and Pierre Troisgros, Gaston Le Notre and Michel Guerard. Then they teamed up again in the late 1980s with Jo McKenzie (former owner of the Copper Beach Inn, in Ivoryton) to open the now-defunct Robert Henry's on the site of Union League. When Robert Henry's closed, Mr. Vuillermet opened Union League in 1993; in 1996, Mr. Gammariello joined him, this time to run the front of the house. 
 As good as the food is, the romance of dining at Union League would not be complete without Mr. Gammariello, who, when not assisting a table, can be found scrutinizing the room over the rim of his glasses. 
 He has a gift for making his guests love to drink wine. One need not be terribly knowledgeable nor have a sophisticated palate to enjoy his counsel. Ask for a recommendation, and he returns with a bottle and a story: an ancestor in this vintner's family helped write the Napoleonic Code; the grapes used in that wine never succumbed to the phylloxera blight; can we taste the sherry-like vinification here? Nowhere is he more in his element than when he sets you up, with great glee, with a pairing of wines and cheeses. 
 Union League has been a favorite restaurant of mine for several years. These days some members of the staff know me, but I've dined there several times when they did not (including the first time I reviewed the place, in 2005, as part of a winter dining article for The Times). On every occasion, the food, and Mr. Gammariello's advice, have been outstanding. And on no occasion did the staff know I was there to write a review (at least that is what I assume, especially since a recent visit ended with a somewhat overcooked chocolate souffle). 
 Given the pre-recession prices there, if you plan to drink wine, I recommend that you, too, make the acquaintance of Mr. Gammariello. And under no condition should you depart without indulging his passion for marrying wines with cheese. 
 Union League Cafe
 1032 Chapel Street 
 New Haven 
 (203) 562-4299
 unionleaguecafe.com
 EXTRAORDINARY
 THE SPACE Spacious and high-ceilinged, the elegant dining room in the Beaux-Arts-style Sherman Building is accented with mirrors, arched windows, dark wood and stained glass. A working marble-edged fireplace dominates one wall. Wheelchair access through elevator in alleyway to the side of the building. 
 THE CROWD Mainly well-dressed and sophisticated. 
 THE BAR Full bar and wine list, including a hefty selection of French, European and New World bottles. Some bottles are under $40 but not many, and more than a few are over $100. Short list of less expensive bottles offered each night under the heading ''sommelier recommendations at bistro prices.'' Wines by the glass: $6.75 to $14.75.
 THE BILL Lunch: appetizers, $6.75 to $13.50; entrees, $7.50 to $16.75. Dinner: appetizers, $6.75 to $28; raw bar, $1.50 to $12 per item; entrees, $21 to $31. Three-course prix fixe menu, $34.50 ($29 through the holidays, between 5 and 6 p.m. and after 9 p.m.). MasterCard, Visa and American Express. 
 WHAT WE LIKED Croque-monsieur; tuna carpaccio, risotto with white truffles, spinach salad with Roquefort, chicken consomme with lemon grass, duck confit, shrimp with artichoke hearts and figs, foie gras, roasted veal chop, roasted pheasant, chicken with black truffles, tuna with black and white sesame seeds; pear-almond tart, sorbets, cheeses. 
 IF YOU GO Lunch: Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Dinner: Monday through Thursday, 5 to 9:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 10 p.m. Metered parking on Chapel Street, or in lot behind the restaurant. Reservations recommended.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ARTFUL: The dining room at Union League Cafe. Appetizers include shrimp with artichokes and duck confit, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



512 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let Exceptions Kill the Rule

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
CONGRESS began the work of reforming our troubled financial system last week, and a bill aimed at regulating derivatives passed the House Financial Services Committee on Thursday. 
 Derivatives -- contracts that theoretically protect buyers from unforeseen financial calamities but more often are used to fuel raw speculation -- were, lest we forget, at the heart of the banking crisis. 
 Credit default swaps, Wall Street-style insurance contracts that let speculators bet against a company or debt issue, propelled the American International Group off the cliff. Those swaps also linked millions of trading partners, creating a web in which one default threatened to produce a chain of corporate and economic failures worldwide. 
 And derivatives aren't going away. In the right hands, they help parties manage risk. In the wrong hands, they are among the most destructive financial products ever invented. So reforming the $42 trillion market for credit swaps is crucial if taxpayers are to be protected from future rescues of institutions deemed not only too big but also too interconnected to fail.
 The best aspect of the House bill is that it requires many swaps to be traded on exchanges just like stocks, subjecting them for the first time to the light of day. But elsewhere in the bill, known as the Over-the-Counter Derivatives Market Act of 2009, exceptions to this exchange-trading rule undermine its regulatory power. 
 Derivatives regulation has been on the nation's financial reform agenda for months. Undoing the Clinton-era law that exempted swaps from oversight is seen as imperative, except perhaps by big banks that deal in the contracts. It's worth noting that many members of the Clinton economic team, including Lawrence Summers, Timothy Geithner and Gary Gensler, now hold pivotal policy-making positions in the Obama administration. 
 In August, the White House sent its derivatives proposal to Congress, recommending that all standardized contracts trade on an exchange. But big banks dealing in swaps don't want exchange trading, where pricing and the identities of participants would be more publicly transparent. Savvier swaps customers would soon pay less on their transactions and bank profits would fall. 
 Some swaps buyers also dislike exchange trading because it would require them to put up a cash cushion -- or margin -- before a transaction. This is to help prevent counterparty failures, but participants in the market prefer not to pay this freight. They'd rather taxpayers foot the bill for a possible collapse later on, as they did with A.I.G.
 Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, dismissed criticism of the bill he is steering along, saying that it would create incentives to make exchange-traded swaps the norm. ''We passed the bill to drive most of the swaps onto exchanges,'' he said in an interview Friday. ''End users will move in that direction to save money.'' But Michael Greenberger, a University of Maryland law professor and an expert in derivatives, criticized the House bill. ''While I know there was a good-faith effort to improve the regulation, the plain language of the legislation can only be read as a Christmas tree of decorative gifts to the banking industry,'' he said. ''And this is being done when people acknowledge the unregulated O.T.C. derivatives market was a principal reason for the meltdown.''
 A SIGNIFICANT exception in the bill says that if a transaction involves a company that uses a swap to offset its commercial risks -- the bill defines this entity as an end user -- its trade does not have to be put on an exchange. This was intended to address complaints from swaps customers -- like airlines or oil companies that hedge their commercial risks -- that their costs would rise unnecessarily under the bill. 
 The problem is the bill's lack of specificity about what an end user is. Indeed, what is to stop a hedge fund or private equity firm from setting up companies to meet the ''end user'' definition so their trades could escape scrutiny? 
 Another questionable exemption says that if a swap is to be exchange-traded, it must be deemed ''clearable'' by facilities known as clearinghouses. Some of these are partially owned by banks. If a clearinghouse decides that the swap can be cleared, then it can trade on an exchange.
 Gee, do you think the banks might be a tad hesitant to punt a very lucrative line of business onto less profitable exchanges? Do you think they might have an incentive to say that the most profitable swaps simply aren't clearable? 
 Conflicts posed by swaps dealers' stakes in clearinghouses is no small thing. Those on the House committee who amended the bill recognized the problem and decided to restrict swaps dealers' ownership of clearinghouses to 20 percent; the balance might go to public investors.
 To be sure, the House bill is just the first step in what is likely to be a long road to reforming this huge and opaque market. And more oversight is surely better than none. The House Agriculture Committee, which oversees the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, will take up the matter now. 
 But the stakes for taxpayers who might have to take on yet another wave of financial bailouts in the future are even higher. And allowing the very institutions that imperiled our economy to weaken derivatives reform would be a grave insult to those whose rescue money is being used, even today, to generate bank profits and a recent round of outsize bonuses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); BARNEY FRANK (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



513 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Broadband Now! So Why Don't Some Use It?

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ACCESS to a fast Internet connection has become more than a convenience. It's being enshrined in some countries as a legal right of all citizens. Finland, for example, announced last week that it was moving up its timetable to next year from 2015 for guaranteeing broadband access to all, according to YLE, the Finnish broadcasting company. 
 Congress is clearly irritated that the United States has not done well in the international broadband Olympics. Other countries have national plans to accelerate the diffusion of broadband; America does not. So Congress has given the Federal Communications Commission a mandate to produce a plan with specific recommendations by next February. 
 We shouldn't get caught up, however, in a space-race panic. We've actually done surprisingly well making a broadband connection accessible to a vast majority of American households. No less than 96 percent of households either subscribe to or have access to broadband service, according to an F.C.C. task force, which presented a status report to the commission last month. 
 The report does not play up the fact that almost all homes have, or could have, broadband service. 
 Nor does it highlight the actual median speed of 3 megabits a second among households that now have broadband, (which is based on data that probably understates the speeds substantially). The authors seem happily caught up in the thrill of playing an international game of catch-up.
 The most interesting question here is the one that the F.C.C. can't answer: Why have 33 percent of American households that have access to broadband elected not to subscribe? The reasons ''are not well understood,'' the report says. A survey focusing on the nonadopters is under way.
 We do know that adoption levels vary by age, income, education and race. Perhaps the F.C.C.'s survey of nonadopters will show that low income is the main barrier to access. In that case, means-tested subsidies could remove that obstacle.
 But age is clearly another factor. Survey data supplied by the Pew Internet and American Life Project show that just 30 percent of Americans who are 65 or older use broadband, compared with 77 percent of the 18-to-29 age group. (Which raises an interesting question itself: only 77 percent?)
 The F.C.C.'s own survey of nonadopters is likely to confirm that many older people are simply not as comfortable with newer technology. But it may also reveal that there is an irreducible core of people, spanning ages and income levels, who simply do not want to use the Internet.
 And maybe that won't change, no matter how many social workers knock at their doors, and no matter how many years pass after Internet service has come to be accepted by their neighbors as a utility as essential as water and electricity. South Korea's experience as a broadband pioneer is suggestive. The task force looked at 22 countries with broadband plans, seeking best practices that were well suited to the United States, and South Korea's broadband initiative was of particular interest. 
 In 1999, South Korea began to help low-income and elderly households get PCs and become connected, and the outcome could be described as quite successful: ''Today, 83 percent of households in Korea have adopted broadband access,'' the report says. But one can also look at the remaining 17 percent and wonder what has prevented those households from getting online, despite the strenuous efforts of a government that has been a world leader in the broadband race.
 The F.C.C. has invited comments and suggestions for its broadband initiative and has received about 41,000 pages in response, from individuals and businesses. Google proposes that every American have access by 2012 to a connections of 5 megabits a second (Mbps) -- in both directions. It also suggests that several cities be selected to test the installation in every household of 1-gigabit-a-second connections -- or more than a thousand times faster than the speed that the F.C.C. uses to define downstream ''broadband.'' 
 What exactly one could do with such a gloriously fast connection is not detailed. Then again, even the recent F.C.C. report, which does its best to list exciting possibilities that come into view with each increment of broadband speed, struggles to come up with many examples beyond 5 Mbps. Streamed classroom lectures, for example, require 1 to 5 Mbps; with 10 Mbps, the lectures come in high definition.
 The estimated costs for universally upgrading the minimum speed of the nation's broadband connections to 3 Mbps would be about $20 billion, according to the report. Getting to 10 Mbps would be $50 billion. To play in the same league as Finland, with its 100 Mbps service promised to every citizen by 2015, would require $350 billion.
 FINLAND occupies a compact 130,558 square miles, versus more than 3.5 million for the United States. The economics of broadband deployment are greatly affected by physical distances. With some understatement, the F.C.C. report says, ''the economics of providing broadband to the rural U.S. are challenging.''
 In a news release introducing the task force report, the F.C.C. calls broadband ''the infrastructure challenge of our time,'' which seems a wee bit overstated, given the decrepit state of our bridges, highways, railroads and schools. It also blithely overlooks the fact that the infrastructure is already in place to provide speeds of 3 to 10 Mbps to 94 percent of American households.
 We've built it, but not all have come. Some may never come.
 Let's not assume that their and their nation's future will be hopelessly blighted if they don't. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (92%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



514 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: The Proof Will Be In the Profits

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
WHEN the economy appears on the verge of rebounding -- as it does today -- investors tend to gravitate toward economically sensitive stocks, which stand to benefit from improving financial conditions. 
 Often, this leads them to traditional growth sectors, like technology, materials and consumer discretionary stocks, which include retailers. Economically cyclical companies in areas like financial services and manufacturing may also seem appealing. 
 True to form, these five sectors have been among the best-performers in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index so far this year. 
 And, since March, each of these categories has surged more than 70 percent. That's roughly double what many of these sectors have averaged in gains in the first 12 months of new bull markets since 1949, according to S.& P.
 ''Certainly, we've seen a tremendous run-up in the most economically sensitive stocks,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston. 
 Now, some market strategists are beginning to wonder whether these stocks have already had their day.
 At the very least, prices of the most economically sensitive groups already reflect expectations of a robust recovery.
 For example, the price-to-earnings ratio for the materials sector of the S.& P. 500 (which includes companies like Dow Chemical and International Paper) has more than doubled over the past year, to 36 from 17, according to S.& P. This figure is based on 2009 operating earnings. 
 But Wall Street analysts are forecasting a 99 percent rise in earnings for that category in 2010. Based on these projections, the so-called forward P/E of the materials sector is a much more palatable 18.
 Analysts are similarly betting on huge earnings recoveries in 2010 for several other economically sensitive groups, like financials.
 Mr. Kleintop says these earnings expectations aren't necessarily unreasonable. 
 ''But you do need to see some follow-through here,'' he said. ''You can't just see higher and higher valuations on the hope for more growth. At some point, you have to see companies, particularly in those sectors that have risen the most -- like consumer discretionary, technology and industrials -- deliver on those earnings expectations, or the market will be disappointed.''
 That test is beginning, with the start of the third-quarter earnings season.
 Christian Anderson, an associate portfolio manager at Russell Investments in Tacoma, Wash., said the rally that started in early March might be entering a second phase. In the first stage, the stocks that fared best were economically cyclical shares and those that had been beaten up in the bear market.
 Now, with valuations starting to come into question, investors may want to turn their attention to what Mr. Anderson calls ''organic growth'' stocks -- shares of companies that don't rely entirely on a robust recovery to expand their business and profits. 
 He said technology might be an area to consider. Many tech companies don't have any debt on their balance sheets, and tend to enjoy healthy cash flows. And unlike, say, retailing, this sector doesn't require a quick consumer recovery, he said.
 What's more, technology is a growth sector in which valuations still look reasonable. 
 JACK A. ABLIN, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago, says that growth stocks in general have been outperforming the rest of the market for the past couple of years.
 ''The group is beginning to look expensive and tired,'' he said.
 Still, tech stocks have generally not seen their valuations rise, he added. Indeed, the average P/E ratio for tech companies in the S.& P. 500 is now 22.2, based on 2009 operating earnings. That's lower than it was in the second quarter this year -- and well below the sector's median P/E of 30.5 since 1995.
 Tech is the sector most favored by investment managers now, according to a survey by Russell Investments. Health care comes in second. While health care stocks don't depend on a strong recovery, they are still traditionally considered growth investments. And they're currently cheap. The P/E for health care stocks in the S.& P. 500 is 12.8 -- about where it was a year ago.
 The consumer discretionary sector, another traditional growth area, may be worth a look, although it is dependent on a rebound not just in the economy but also in consumer spending. But earnings here have already started to improve -- up 64 percent this year. 
 As in the technology sector, valuations for these stocks have already started to fall even as stock prices have soared. So if the overall market were to plunge, these stocks' more modest prices might cushion their fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CHEMICALS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (54%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (54%); DOW (NYSE) (54%); DOW (LSE) (54%); 4850 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



515 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; BACKDROP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: Cash For Clunkers? Not Exactly

 BODY:
Sales of new autos may have plunged, but sales of old autos -- from around 30 to 100 years old, that is -- were brisk last weekend at the Vintage Motor Cars of Hershey annual auction in Pennsylvania. The event, run by RM Auctions, posted about $9 million in sales, and, almost in defiance of the recession, 94 percent of the 136 cars on offer were sold. The top seller was a 1931 Marmon Sixteen convertible coupe, which brought a winning bid of $517,000. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Vintage Motor Cars auction in Hershey, Pa. Ornaments at top are for a '41 Cadillac, '72 Bugazzi, '54 Lincoln and '31 Cadillac.
The interior of a 1954 Oldsmobile 98 Holiday two-door hardtop
Donnie Gould and others acted as proxies for bidding by phone.
 Mark Smith drove a 1909 Stanley Model E2 Runabout for the Stanley Museum in Kingfield, Me. It sold for $160,000.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



516 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES PROVIDENT LOAN SOCIETY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: The Best-Looking Pawnshops Ever

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HAVEN'T I met you somewhere before? Yes, you have, if we are speaking of the half dozen old Provident Loan Society branches around town. Each of these gems is a slight variation on a theme of genteel classicism, in tune with the society's position as pawnbroker to the respectable. Most are out of service, several demolished, and they form a discontinuous but recognizable necklace strung over the city. 
 The Provident Loan Society was incorporated in 1894 to lend money to the poor and working class at modest rates, supplanting loan sharks and pawnbrokers. 
 By 1905, the society was lending $7 million per year, and in 1906 a reporter for The New York Sun loitered for several hours in the society's office at Eldridge and Rivington Streets, where the writer observed an immigrant woman taking out a $50 loan on a pair of earrings. The store manager, unnamed, predicted that she would be using the money to ''stock a pushcart'' or some other small venture.
 In 1907, the society branched out from rented quarters and began a building campaign unusual in its extent and elegance for any New York financial institution, retaining the architectural firm of Renwick, Aspinwall & Tucker.
 The architects produced a one-story neo-Classical building, on Grand and Clinton Streets in Manhattan, in the heart of the target market. Tan or orange brick with crisp terra-cotta details evoked its high-minded purpose. This building, now demolished, was the first of more than a dozen Provident buildings by the Renwick firm. 
 The little temple that is still the organization's headquarters, Park Avenue South and 25th Street, was designed in 1908. Today, it is in near-mint condition, the marble cladding luscious. But the four-story height is not so striking as the typical one-story branch. 
 The Sun visited the headquarters in 1909 and found many people with an outsized view of their possessions. A woman who was informed her pin was worth just $10, the newspaper said, ''lost her temper completely and hurled one uncomplimentary adjective after another at the clerk.''
 The firm next designed a chaste branch on Seventh Avenue just below 49th Street, now vanished. Writing in 1910 in Architects' and Builders' Magazine, the critic Charles Warren Hastings praised its elegance, saying it ''looks about as incongruous among its surroundings as would a lily thrust into the center of a bunch of beets.''
 In 1911 and 1912, Renwick, Aspinwall & Tucker designed two perfect little temples that still survive, one at Lexington and 124th Street, and the other at Frederick Douglass Boulevard and 127th Street, neither still a Provident branch.
 Here, they perfected their brick and terra cotta combination -- a soft, straw-colored brick and cream-colored terra cotta with varied pediments over the windows, triangular and curved. The ground floors are very high, perhaps two and a half regular stories, and the interiors chaste and demure. 
 A close match to these is the old Houston Street office, still standing at the corner of Essex, and another at Smith and Livingston Streets in Brooklyn, no longer extant. A similar work is at Courtlandt Avenue and 148th Street in the Bronx.
 By the end of the 1920s, Provident had retreated to the economy of inside lots, and the Renwick firm adopted a stripped Classical style. Two of these former branches still stand: 153 East 60th, now empty and for sale for $5,995,000, and 2240 Church Avenue in Brooklyn. 
 In 1962, Provident had 17 buildings. But now it is down to five and of these, only the main office is from the high period. Another current branch, at 180 East 72nd, was originally built as a bank, charming but quite different. 
 The 127th Street building is now owned by the Greater Zion Hill Baptist Church. It is in beautiful condition on the outside. On a recent Sunday, a French group on a gospel tour came in while the service was under way and took seats within the simply modeled walls under a coffered ceiling. The 124th Street branch, now a discount store, is wonderfully garish, covered in salmon and sky blue paint. 
 The other day, I decided to test the pawnshop waters. I set out with some gold jewelry I had inherited in January from my mother, a pendant and two gold rings, one made in the 1970s by David Webb, of whom she was a great fan. 
 I found the most old-fashioned-looking pawnbroker I could, the S. & G. Gross Company, established in 1901. On Eighth Avenue just north of 34th Street, it has the customary three gold balls outside, plus a neon sign version. 
 The same morning, I also visited the Provident Loan Society on 72nd Street near Third, where linoleum and dropped ceilings have covered over any charm the former bank may have had.
 At S. & G. a man at the counter offered to lend me $500 on the jewelry for six months at a 48 percent annual interest rate. With additional fees, the loan would end up costing $165 upon redemption. Provident offered to lend me $525 for six months at 26 percent, which, with fees, would cost $83.75. 
 So even though its architectural necklace has become unstrung, this venerable institution is still doing its job. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GEMS: Renwick, Aspinwall & Tucker designed some handsome buildings for the Provident Loan Society. At far left is a branch at Lexington Avenue and 124th Street around 1912. At left is the building today. Below, a branch turned church at Frederick Douglass Boulevard and 127th Street.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (87%); WRITERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



517 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice: Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
THE SUICIDE RUN: Five Tales of the Marine Corps, by William Styron (Random House, $24.) These newly collected stories, written over a span of decades, concentrate on what happens to men damaged by battles they did not fight and by combat they never faced. 
 THE GOOD SOLDIERS, by David Finkel (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Finkel's harrowing chronicle of modern combat is based on the eight months he spent with an Army battalion in Iraq. 
 THE CHILDREN'S BOOK, by A. S. Byatt (Knopf, $26.95.) Set between 1895 and the Somme offensive, Byatt's intricate novel tracks several British households joined by an ardent belief in art and social reform. 
 A BOMB IN EVERY ISSUE: How the Short, Unruly Life of Ramparts Magazine Changed America, by Peter Richardson (New Press, $25.95.) In the '60s, the radical Ramparts revived muckraking, put showmanship back into journalism and exposed C.I.A. excesses. 
 ANNE FRANK: The Book, the Life, the Afterlife, by Francine Prose (Harper/HarperCollins, $24.99.) In examining Anne Frank's powerful global legacy, Prose makes a persuasive argument for her literary genius. 
 THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH: The Evidence for Evolution, by Richard Dawkins (Free Press, $30.) Dawkins mercilessly deploys his nice sense of irony against opponents of Darwin's mighty theory. 
 PAST DUE: The End of Easy Money and the Renewal of the American Economy, by Peter S. Goodman (Times Books/Holt, $25.) A Times economics correspondent analyzes our recent market delusions. 
 MIKE BLOOMBERG: Money, Power, Politics, by Joyce Purnick (PublicAffairs, $26.95.) This biography finds the mayor profane, cranky and highly effective. 
 CATCHING FIRE, by Suzanne Collins (Scholastic Press, $17.99; ages 12 and up.) A delightfully ruthless sequel to Collins's totalitarian-dystopic ''Hunger Games.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (85%); ARMIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); POLITICS (73%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (70%); EVOLUTION THEORY (65%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%); CHILDREN'S BOOK PRESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



518 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CROSSROADS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Families, Class and Culture

BYLINE: By ARLIE HOCHSCHILD. 
Arlie Hochschild is the author of ''The Time Bind'' and five other books.

 BODY:
One June day in 1977, my husband and I and our two small children stood on a San Francisco street corner to watch the annual gay pride parade. Amid the balloons and streamers, we saw a sign bob by: ''Smash the Nuclear Family.'' On the same street corner 32 years later, we saw another parade and a different sign: ''YES on Gay Marriage!'' As an ideal at least, American marriage has survived a cultural war unmatched in the Western world.
 It's been a strange war. For whatever they think about gay marriage, out-of-wedlock pregnancy, the right to abortion -- the two sides differ surprisingly little in what they do. Two-thirds of older Americans who believe the Bible is the literal word of God are married, but so are two-thirds of those who say the Bible is a collection of myths. Or else the two sides differ in what they do but not in ways we'd imagine: rates of teenage pregnancy, out-of-wedlock births and divorce are higher in red states, for example, than in blue ones. 
 Over the last 40 years, we have witnessed a profound shift in the American family, one that bears the deep footprints of a disappearing economic sector and a transformed culture. The shift has hit blue-collar families especially hard. These days, the best gauge of social class is years in school. In 1970, a female high school dropout had a 17 percent chance of becoming a single mother (versus 2 percent for a woman with a bachelor's degree). By 2007, her chances had jumped to a whopping 49 percent (versus 7 percent for the B.A. holder). Nearly all new mothers with graduate training, but only half of high school dropout mothers, are married.
 Why is this happening? As the economist Richard Wolff tells the story in his book ''Capitalism Hits the Fan,'' for a century before 1970 most American companies paid wages that slowly rose decade by decade, so that a male worker could feel better off than his dad and trust that his son would be better off than he was. But by the 1970s, the deal was off; corporate profits continued to rise while workers' real wages stagnated. Scrambling to make up for this fact, fathers worked longer hours. Mothers got jobs -- and this in a society without paid child care or parental leave. Families went into debt. The blue-collar family became the shock absorber of the broken deal. On top of this, Americans of every class found themselves less and less secure about their jobs, pensions and health insurance. For as Jacob S. Hacker, the Yale political scientist and Democratic adviser, argues in ''The Great Risk Shift,'' over the last 30 years, companies and government have offloaded risk onto the shoulders of individuals. 
 But economic trends are only part of the blue-collar story, according to the conservatives Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam. In their provocative manifesto, ''Grand New Party: How Republicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream,'' they agree that economic blows have hurt the blue-collar family. But so, they say, has a decline in family values. The sexual revolution may have been comfortably absorbed by the well-resourced ''mass upper class,'' they reason, but it threw lower-income families for a loop. Liberals and feminists knocked family values from the safety of their intact middle-class marriages, Douthat and Salam believe, while precarious blue-collar families spiraled downward into divorce, poverty and school failure. Family values help prevent that spiral, they argue. Culture counts. 
 But what culture are we talking about? Douthat (a New York Times Op-Ed columnist) and Salam focus on the value of family life but don't question embedded values that can undermine it -- a resistance to ''big'' government and a great trust in the free market. They disparage the ''swaddling clothes of a nanny state,'' by which they seem to mean the generous family supports -- paid parental leave, good public child care, shorter work hours -- most of Western Europe enjoys. At the same time, they propose some remarkable ''swaddling'' themselves -- wage subsidies for blue-collar men so their girlfriends will marry them; money to expand suburbs (good for families, they argue) and to repave the freeways to get to them; a $5,000 tax credit per child; subsidies for stay-at-home parents. Douthat and Salam call on the ''nanny state'' to spend tons of money, then sadly disparage the ''nanny'' for getting us to depend on it.
 In survey after survey, Americans show up as valuing marriage more than people almost anywhere else. Yet at the same time we have the highest divorce -- and romantic breakup -- rate in the world, Andrew J. Cherlin observes in his highly insightful book ''The Marriage-Go-Round: The State of Marriage and the Family in America Today.'' We step into and out of romantic relationships faster than couples in Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. By age 35, 10 percent of American women have lived with three or more husbands or domestic partners -- a higher proportion than in any of these countries. Children born of married parents in America face a higher risk of seeing them break up than children born of unmarried parents in Sweden.
 Why are Americans on this marriage-go-round? Is it the ''restless temper'' Alexis de Tocqueville observed 175 years ago? It is true, Cherlin observes, that more than people elsewhere, we move from job to job, city to city, and even church to church. Could this be linked to a missing government safety net and family-protective policies? Cherlin gives little credence to this idea, but he leaves us with another useful notion -- that more than we realize, we've become accustomed to a move-along life-go-round world.
 If Americans came to this country as restless seekers in search of a new and better life, capitalism made superb use of that impulse. We believe in the new? Here is a new car, a new iPhone. We buy. We discard. We buy again. In recent years, we've been doing it faster. The economist Juliet Schor shows in her research on ''fast fashion'' that we consume and discard dresses, shoes, toys, furniture and cellphones at a quicker pace than we did in the past.
 Could this ''fast-fashion'' culture be filtering into our ideas about human connection? On Internet sites and television shows, we watch potential partners searching ''through the rack'' of dozens of beauties or possible beaus. Some go on ''speed dates''; others go to ''eye-gazing parties'' -- two minutes per gaze, 15 gazes -- to find that special someone. If advertisers first exploited the ''restless spirit'' by guiding consumers' attention to the next new thing, a market spirit now guides our search for the next new love. The culprit is not the absence of family values, I believe, but a continual state of unconscious immersion in a market turnover culture. It is this that sets us apart from a more stable Europe.
 For some adults, the search for a new partner leads to a better life. But not so for many children. Reporting on his research about the nation's teenagers, Cherlin says: ''For each partner who entered or left the household of a single parent, the odds that the adolescent had stolen something, skipped school, gotten drunk or done something similar rose by 12 percent.'' 
 Working-class families, where breakups come faster, have suffered a one-two punch. They have absorbed the decline of the industrial sector. They have also been exposed, like the rest of America, to a curiously consumerist approach to love. Paradoxically, those who call for family values also tout the wonders of an unregulated market without observing the subtle cultural links between the family they seek to regulate and the market they hold free. 
 The recent struggle for gay marriage can remind us all of the value of sustained commitment. So what can we do? In response to our fast-food culture, a ''slow food'' movement appeared. Out of hurried parenthood, a move toward slow parenting could be growing. With vital government supports for state-of-the-art public child care and paid parental leave, maybe we would be ready to try slow love and marriage.
 This is the seventh in a series of essays exploring dominant themes and currents of thought in particular areas of American life. The next essay in the series, which will continue in this space over the coming weeks, is scheduled to appear on Oct. 25. An archive can be found at nytimes.com/crossroads. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KIM BOST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); FAMILY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); ABORTION (76%); PARENTING (73%); FAMILY LEAVE (73%); RELIGION (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



519 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Migrants Going North Now Risk Kidnappings

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: TECATE, Mexico 

 BODY:
For 37 days, the Salvadoran immigrant was held captive in a crowded room near the border with scores of people, all of them Central Americans who had been kidnapped while heading north, hoping to cross into the United States. He finally got out in August, he said, after the Mexican Army raided the house in the middle of the night to free them.
 ''The army said: 'Don't run. We're here to help you,' '' recalled the migrant, a 30-year-old father of three who insisted that his name not be printed for fear of either being kidnapped again or deported. ''I kept running.'' 
 Getting to ''el norte'' has never been a cakewalk. Along with long treks through desert terrain, death-defying river crossings and perilous rides clinging onto trains, there have always been con men and crooked police officers preying on migrants along the way.
 But Mexican human rights groups that monitor migration say the threats foreigners face as they cross Mexico for the United States have grown significantly in recent months. Organized crime groups have begun taking aim at migrants as major sources of illicit revenue, even as the financial crisis in the United States has reduced the number of people willing to risk the journey.
 Kidnapping people for ransom is a pervasive problem in this country, although victims have typically been prosperous people with bank accounts that can be emptied at the nearest A.T.M., or those with relatives willing to hand over significant sums to save them.
 Migrants may typically be poor, often with little in their pockets except the scrawled telephone numbers of relatives who have migrated before them, but they have usually notified friends or relatives in the United States that they are on their way. To kidnappers, those contacts are golden. ''They beat me and kept beating me until I handed over my telephone numbers,'' said the Salvadoran immigrant, interviewed at a center for migrants in Reynosa, just across the border with Texas.
 In many ways, the man's account was typical. A study by Mexico's National Human Rights Commission released this year found 9,758 migrants who had been kidnapped as they tried to cross the border into the United States between September 2008 and February 2009. The commission noted that migrants were typically terrified to report such crimes out of fear of being deported by Mexican immigration authorities and that the actual number of victims was probably much higher.
 The stories the commission heard in interviews with victims were alarming. There were frequent rapes of female migrants. Fierce beatings were carried out. As a lesson to other captives, the kidnappers killed some migrants who did not hand over the telephone numbers of their relatives.
 ''They said that if they did not receive payment, they would take away my kidney afterward and throw me into the river so the big lizards would eat me,'' a Honduran man who was kidnapped in Tabasco State told commission investigators. 
 He said he had been kidnapped along with 60 or so others, all Central Americans. The men who took them said they were coyotes, or human smugglers, and promised to feed them and help them cross into the United States. Instead, the men forced the captives over 30 days to call relatives in the United States and extract thousands of dollars from them in order to be released.
 The amounts demanded ranged from $1,500 to $10,000, sizable sums on top of the several thousand dollars that the migrants had already paid smugglers to make the crossing. 
 One victim, a Honduran man kidnapped in Nuevo Laredo at the Texas border, told investigators that he was close to reaching the United States when he fell for a swindle. Two women approached and offered him a day job for about $10, money that he desperately needed.
 But there was no job awaiting him at the house where he was taken. Instead, he and a half dozen other migrants were beaten over the course of two weeks and frequently photographed. The captors demanded the e-mail addresses of relatives and sent the desperate-looking photos in order to extract ransoms, he said.
 The man said his relatives paid what the kidnappers had demanded, so he and others who had come up with the ransom money were blindfolded one evening and taken to the bank of a river. Dumped alongside them was the body of a Salvadoran migrant whom the captors had killed. The kidnappers fired several rounds at the ground and demanded that everyone jump into the river, the man said. The group never made it across, though, and was later picked up by the Mexican authorities.
 Human rights workers say Mexican migrants are not singled out by kidnappers as often as foreigners, mostly Central Americans, but also Ecuadoreans, Brazilians, Chileans and Peruvians. The foreigners are more vulnerable, less familiar with their surroundings and less likely to report what happened to them to the authorities, advocates say. 
 ''If people don't come forward, we don't know the extent of the problem,'' said Angelica Martinez, a state prosecutor in Tecate, a border town east of Tijuana, where the authorities were pursuing a kidnapper who goes by the nickname ''El Gato,'' who was believed to prey on migrants.
 Complicating the problem, migrants complain that the police are sometimes in league with the kidnappers, rounding up victims and handing them over to kidnappers for a fee. Mexican law enforcement officials acknowledge that some individual officers may be involved in organized crime, but they say the problem is not as widespread as often portrayed and is being combated on a national level.
 The Salvadoran victim who was kidnapped in Reynosa said he had first been to the United States in 1999. He had stayed three years, working in the fields and in a furniture store in North Carolina, before returning to El Salvador. After what he had endured, he said he was mulling whether to give up the opportunity of higher wages in the United States and return home.
 ''There was danger of robbery back then,'' he said of his first crossing 10 years ago. ''It's always been dangerous. But now it's gotten even worse. We're poor and we're trying to get ahead. We're doing this for our kids. I'd advise people to be careful and to pray to God.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A migrant from Guatemala, above, walked to catch a freight train north in Guadalajara. At left, a Honduran studied a map of Mexico, where foreigners are being kidnapped on their way to the United States.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS JASSO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); INTERVIEWS (61%); DESERTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



520 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: When It Rains Roaches

 BODY:
I HAVE fond memories of growing up in Johannesburg. It was a simple life. We had no TV until I was about 13. Many kids had a bike, a soccer ball and a dog, and that was it. It was highly unusual to be inside during the day.
 After high school, I served in the military for two years and trained troops for battle. In the early 1980s, South Africa was engaged in a war with Angola, and there was a mandatory military conscription. After being discharged, I got a B.A. in economics and a postgraduate diploma in human resource management at the University of Cape Town. 
 It was the height of apartheid, and there were international sanctions against South Africa. I decided to travel the world and see why people held the views they did. I made enough money working in nightclubs and diving for abalone and crayfish around Cape Town. 
 I was hired to be a member of a crew on a yacht sailing from South Africa to Europe. We traveled by way of the Azores to avoid pirates off the north coast of Africa. Later, I worked at a surfboard factory in Portugal and as a bicycle courier, accounting assistant and bookkeeper in London. For four years, I'd work for a while and then take off for different parts of Europe. 
 In 1992, I traveled to the United States, and after a year of snowboarding got a job at Steritech. My wife, Bronwyn, who was then my girlfriend, introduced me to her father, John Whitley, who founded the company. We provide food safety and sanitation inspection services to large supermarkets, restaurants, hotels and food processing facilities. We conduct 100,000 inspections a year in 30 countries. We also provide commercial pest control and quality assurance services.
 I started as an account executive in the pest control division. The first account I sold was a chicken processing plant in the South. It was so infested with German cockroaches that when we began eliminating them, they started to rain down on us from the ceiling. We literally had to tuck our trousers into our socks so they couldn't crawl up our legs. 
 I've seen a grain silo just as infested with rats. You have to be quite aggressive to eliminate the problems. Many of these pests are nocturnal, so managers don't usually see the evidence. But the visual impact of a pile of dead cockroaches can be quite dramatic. 
 In 2001, I became president and chief operating officer of our food safety division. This group works to ensure the quality and safety of food throughout the food chain, from farm to table. I was promoted to my current position in 2005. 
 We've worked with hotels that have bedbugs. Hotels can wash the sheets all they like, but often the rooms have to be quarantined for deep cleaning. The bugs can infest other soft goods in hotel rooms as well, from padded headboards to couches to puffed chairs. They're even in box springs. We use heat treatments, steam and, when necessary, approved pesticides. We even use scent-detection dogs in some cases.
 I'd advise someone starting out in a company or trying to move through the ranks to focus on something they can be passionate and obsessive about. The chances of success are much greater, and the job is more fun.
 Sports are my sanity. I started snowboarding while vacationing in France more than 20 years ago, when it was a rebel sport. In 2000, I won a gold medal in the giant slalom event in the national championships of the United States Amateur Snowboard Association. 
 I know only one pace at work: hard-charging. Jumping on a mountain bike, a surfboard or a snowboard is like a tonic. 
 MARK JARVIS
 Chief executive, the Steritech Group, Charlotte, N.C.
 AGE 45
 RECENTLY READ ''The Four Obsessions of an Extraordinary Executive''
 WORDS HE LIVES BY Believe in yourself.
 TRAVEL TIP Hydrate like crazy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (86%); PRODUCT SAFETY (86%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); INSPECTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); BED BUGS (68%); MARITIME PIRACY (67%); POULTRY PROCESSING (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); FOOD MFG (66%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (54%); SNOWBOARDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) SOUTH AFRICA (95%); EUROPE (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ANGOLA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



521 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Questions for Mark Yudof

 BODY:
 We, the leaders of faculty governance of the 10 University of California campuses, read Deborah Solomon's interview of President Yudof (Sept. 27) with concern. While we realize that these interviews are edited, we worry that the interview gives an impression that U.C. has given up on state financing. We, too, recognize a trend of definancing public education, but we are emphatically not ready to concede the defeat of California's exceptional experiment. 
 Collectively, the campuses of the University of California include six that are counted among the elite of American research universities, and our faculty have 23 awarded Nobel laureates since 1995 and 12 MacArthur fellows since 2003. We educate eight times the number of the poorest Americans as the entire Ivy League and produce more than 7 percent of the nation's Ph.D.'s. If the legislators and the public have come to see investment in an educated citizenry as anything less than the central pillar of social and economic growth, then we educators must redouble our efforts to make the case. As our (other) president said: ''We are not here to fear the future. We are here to shape it.''
 CHRISTOPHER KUTZ, U.C., Berkeley
 ROBERT POWELL, U.C., Davis
 JUDITH STEPAN-NORRIS, U.C., Irvine
 ROBIN GARRELL, U.C., Los Angeles
 MARTHA CONKLIN, U.C., Merced
 ANTHONY NORMAN, U.C., Riverside
 WILLIAM HODGKISS, U.C., San Diego
 ELENA FUENTES-AFFLICK, U.C., San Francisco
 JOEL MICHAELSEN, U.C., Santa Barbara
 LORI KLETZER, U.C., Santa Cruz

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



522 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours : Richmond

BYLINE: By JUSTIN BERGMAN

 BODY:
AS the heart of the old Confederacy, Richmond, Va., watched with envy as other cities like Atlanta and Charlotte became the economic and cultural pillars of the New South. But Richmond may finally be having its big moment: a building boom in the last few years has seen century-old tobacco warehouses transformed into lofts and art studios. Chefs are setting up kitchens in formerly gritty neighborhoods, and the city's buttoned-up downtown suddenly has life after dusk, thanks to new bars, a just-opened hotel and a performing arts complex, Richmond CenterStage. Richmond is strutting with confidence, moving beyond its Civil War legacy and emerging as a new player on the Southern art and culinary scene.
 Friday
 5 p.m. 1) SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE 
 The tattooed artsy crowd may have moved on, but serious shoppers and people watchers are still drawn to Carytown's half-mile stretch of boutiques, vintage clothing stores and cafes. This colorful strip is Richmond at its most eclectic, from floppy-haired musicians, to gay hipsters with pierced eyebrows, to mothers from the West End suburbs pushing strollers. Check out local T-shirt designs at the Need Supply Company (3010 West Cary Street; 804-355-5880; www.needsupply.com). Peruse the retro ball gowns, tiaras and cigarette cases at Bygones (2916 West Cary Street; 804-353-1919; www.bygonesvintage.com). Or seek Japanese anime, underground graphic novels and comics at Chop Suey Books (2913 West Cary Street; 804-422-8066; www.chopsueybooks.com).
 8 p.m. 2)FRESH DIRECT
 The locavore food movement was late in coming to Richmond, but residents have taken to it in a big way at the perpetually packed, year-old Mezzanine (3433 West Cary Street; 804-353-2186; www.mezzanine3433.com). The head chef, Todd Johnson, is particular about his produce, meats and seafood, handpicking the Virginia farmers and fishermen he buys from. The ever-changing, seven-foot-tall chalkboard menu recently included green curry quinoa with gingered bok choy and oyster mushrooms ($16) and tempura soft-shell crabs in a tomato and cucumber broth ($25). A downside: the outdoor patio looks out over a pair of glowing golden arches across the street.
 10 p.m. 3)CASH BAR
 Richmonders used to flee downtown for the suburbs come 6 p.m. But these days, the capital's young politicos gather at Bank (1005 East Main Street; 804-648-3070; www.bankandvault.com), a century-old bank that's been transformed into a swank night spot, complete with a bar made with the building's original marble, a martini lounge in the old president's office and a cavernous downstairs club, Vault. Eavesdrop at the bar and you might pick up some juicy political gossip about Gov. Tim Kaine.
 Saturday
 10:30 a.m. 4)A 'HARLEM' RENAISSANCE
 The historic African-American neighborhood of Jackson Ward was so prosperous after the Civil War that it was known as the Harlem of the South. Then came a long decline that left its streets riddled with empty storefronts. Of course, it wasn't long before artists moved in. Now, P.B.R.-swilling students from nearby Virginia Commonwealth University descend for First Friday gallery hops. For an art walk of your own, start at Gallery5 (200 West Marshall Street; 804-644-0005; www.gallery5arts.org), in a mid-19th-century building that used to be Virginia's oldest fire station. Also worthwhile is Quirk (311 West Broad Street; 804-644-5450; www.quirkgallery.com), which has offbeat offerings, as its name suggests.
 Noon 5)TASTE OF HAVANA
 Don't expect to find amazing ethnic food in Richmond -- this is fried okra country, not an immigrant town. The one exception is Kuba Kuba (1601 Park Avenue; 804-355-8817; www.kubakuba.info), a hole-in-the-wall cafe founded by a Cuban emigre, Manny Mendez. The dishes are authentic up to a point -- pressed Cuban sandwiches with roast pork, ham, Swiss cheese and mustard ($6.95) share the menu with Spanish paellas ($17.95) -- but Richmonders line up just as much for the straight-out-of-Havana vibe. The waitresses sway to Cuban music, and Kuba Kuba also doubles as a bodega: after lunch, load up on Cafe Bustelo and Our Lady of Guadalupe candles.
 2 p.m. 6)THREE-SIDED WAR
 Even if you are not a history buff, a trip to Richmond wouldn't be complete without learning something about the Civil War, still known by a few die-hards as the War of Northern Aggression. The American Civil War Center at Historic Tredegar (500 Tredegar Street; 804-780-1865; www.tredegar.org; $8 entry) takes a less pro-Southern approach. The interactive museum, opened three years ago, tells the story of the war from three perspectives: that of the Union, the Confederacy and the slaves. The museum itself is a giant relic, housed in the old 1861 Tredegar Gun Foundry, a major munitions factory during the war.
 3:30 p.m. 7)INTO THE TREES
 Need to shake off post-museum torpor? How about maneuvering through the trees like Tarzan? Across the river in the Stratford Hills section, trained instructors at Riverside Outfitters (6836 Old Westham Road; 804-560-0068; www.riversideoutfitters.net) lead groups on tree-climbing expeditions along the James River that include harnessed walks along limbs 40 feet above the ground and zip-lines. They claim it's easy enough for a 6-year-old to do it -- albeit on smaller trees. The rates vary, but start at $150 for two hours for these five or fewer.
 7 p.m. 8)HAUTE HOME COOKIN'
 Trust Steve Jurina, owner of the industrial-chic bistro LuLu's (21 North 17th Street; 804-343-9771, www.lu-lusrichmond.com), to get comfort food right. He was the longtime chef at Millie's Diner, revered by locals for its nap-inducing Sunday brunches and down-home atmosphere. LuLu's is a gussied-up version of Millie's for the polo-shirt-wearing yuppies who've snapped up lofts in the renovated tobacco warehouses in Shockoe Bottom, one of Richmond's most historic neighborhoods. Arrive early to grab a bamboo booth, and start with the tasty crab and lobster fritters ($11) before moving on to the High-Falootin' Mac and Cheese, made with white Cheddar, Parmesan and Gorgonzola and topped with grilled shrimp ($20). For over-the-top gluttony, order the deep-dish chocolate and peanut butter pie ($5) for dessert.
 9 p.m. 9)TUNES AND TATTS
 Escape Shockoe Bottom before the clubs start to fill up -- it is party central for drunken college kids on weekends. A less raucous spot can be found uptown at the Camel (1621 West Broad Street; 804-353-4901; www.thecamel.org), which is establishing itself as the premier venue to catch up-and-coming Southern rock and bluegrass bands, acoustic singer-songwriters, and jazz and funk musicians. If it's an off night, go down the street to Empire (727 West Broad Street; 804-344-3323), a dive bar near V.C.U. where sleeve tattoos are part of the informal dress code.
 Sunday
 11 a.m. 10)BATTLE OF THE BRUNCH
 There's a new war being waged at the Black Sheep (901 West Marshall Street; 804-648-1300; www.theblacksheeprva.com), a cozy restaurant with barn-wood wainscoting and church pews for benches. Brave eaters have attacked all six two-foot-long subs, each named after a Civil War-era ship, in what the menu calls ''The War of Northern Ingestion.'' Served on French baguettes, the CSS Virginia is topped with fried chicken livers, shredded cabbage and apples ($12), while the USS Brooklyn has jerk barbecued chicken and banana ketchup ($14). A warning: each behemoth can feed at least two.
 1 p.m. 11)ART FACTORY
 Once an industrial wasteland across the river, the Manchester neighborhood has emerged as an arts district with more loft apartments. The anchor is the former MeadWestvaco packaging plant, which has been turned into a huge art complex with 75 studios and three galleries. Stroll through the mazelike Art Works (320 Hull Street; 804-291-1400; www.artworksrichmond.com), where artists sell their works, many for under $200. Then head to Legend Brewery (321 West Seventh Street; 804-232-3446; www.legendbrewing.com), order a pint of Oktoberfest or the other seven brews on the deck, and take in the view of a city making up for lost time. 
 THE BASICS
 Delta, JetBlue, US Airways and other carriers offer nonstop flights between New York and Richmond. Nonstop round-trip fares later this month start at $147, according to a recent Web search. 
 A car is the best option for getting around; buses run infrequently and don't reach every part of the city. 
 The Jefferson Hotel (101 West Franklin Street; 800-424-8014; www.jeffersonhotel.com) defined luxury when it opened in 1895, and it hasn't lost any of its luster, with its stained-glass domed skylight and 262 rooms decorated with reproduction Southern antiques. Doubles from $235 a night.
 Housed in an old department store, the Hilton Garden Inn Richmond (501 East Broad Street; 804-344-4300; hiltongardeninn.hilton.com) reopened in February following a two-year renovation. Doubles from $99 a night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEFT TO RIGHT: Brunch in the rotunda lobby of the Jefferson Hotel
Manny Mendez, the owner of Kuba Kuba
 Bygones is a vintage clothing shop in the eclectic Carytown district.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSANA RAAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Richmond, Virginia 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); SUBURBS (76%); RETAILERS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (66%); ANIMATION (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (97%) VIRGINIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



523 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING PREPARED MEALS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Straight To Your Door

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
MAUREEN BIRCKS has a hard time getting dinner on the table. Not only does she hate to cook, she can barely scrape together enough time to peel a potato.
 ''I work probably 50 hours a week,'' said Ms. Bircks, 54, of Columbus in Burlington County, who owns a telephone answering service in Hamilton; she and her husband, Ted, have two children, 23 and 17, living at home. ''I don't want to have to think about what we're having for dinner.'' 
 Enter Dinner by Design of Mount Laurel, whose owner, Ryan Carnall, 29, prepares and delivers meals to customers' homes, ready for the oven or microwave. 
 ''He delivers probably four or five days' worth of dinner to my house every two weeks,'' Ms. Bircks said. ''This way, when I'm at work I can call home and say, 'Put this in the oven at this temperature for 10 minutes.' '' 
 Dinner by Design, which opened in 2006, is one of several New Jersey companies that provide made-to-order meals delivered to customers' homes. Some, Dinners by Design included, also let clients assemble their own take-home meals using the ingredients and equipment provided. Some do full-scale traditional catering as well.
 From the perspective of customers, even though the dismal economy has caused many to take a hard look at their food budgets, the cost of meal delivery makes a certain sense. 
 ''This service really saves me financially, because I don't have to go out and buy all the special sauces and spices'' that Mr. Carnall might use in a dish like shrimp Alfredo, said Karen McCallson, 48, a mortgage company executive who lives in Mount Laurel and is another Dinner by Design customer.
 ''I'm also saving because I don't have to leave work to go to the grocery store,'' she said. 
 Dinner by Design offers a package of six entrees, each serving four to six people, for $140; side dishes are extra, and there is a charge for delivery beyond a radius of roughly nine miles. 
 At DinnerSmith, a Maplewood-based service, Fran Valle, a co-owner, said most families spend less on a delivered dinner than they might at a chain restaurant.
 ''With us, you're getting an entree, a starch side and a vegetable side that will feed four people with good appetites for $27,'' Ms. Valle said. That figure does not include delivery charges, which apply to any orders of fewer than 20 meals delivered to a single location. 
 The meal-delivery business may have gotten a boost from Fresh Direct, which started in New York in 2002 and expanded into parts of Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken in 2005. It calls itself an online grocer, but the company also delivers single-portion microwave-ready meals, like balsamic-roasted seitan ($7.99) and garlic-chili wild Alaskan halibut with coconut rice ($9.99). 
 Suburbanites beyond Fresh Direct's delivery area have sought other alternatives to takeout pizza or the frenzied early-evening swing by the supermarket, in spite of the cost. 
 Heidi Facchini, 42, a nursing administrator from Clark, is among them. Since 2007, Ms. Facchini has counted on Lilia Daly, a Cranford-based personal chef who rents commercial kitchen space from St. Bartholomew's Church in Scotch Plains, to deliver several nights' worth of prepared meals for her family each week. 
 Because Ms. Facchini and her husband both work, time to make dinner for themselves and their two children, ages 5 and 6, is scarce. There are also health issues: she and her husband have hypertension, which requires them to limit their salt intake. And their son is diabetic. 
 ''I love to cook; I just don't have enough hours in my day,'' said Ms. Facchini, who learned about Fresh Daly by Lilia, Ms. Daly's business, through a family friend. ''I have the comfort of knowing, all right, I didn't cook this, but someone I know and trust did.'' 
 Ms. Daly, 54, formerly a chef at the Hilton Short Hills and Cafe Panache in Ramsey, said clients with special dietary needs are a mainstay in her business, which serves a wide swath of central New Jersey. Like Ms. Facchini, many of her clients work in health care. 
 ''A lot of times people will call me wanting to buy dinners for someone who's just gotten out of the hospital,'' Ms. Daly said. ''Or the children of an elderly couple will call me and say, 'I'm worried they're not eating right.' ''
 After specifying for the family what will go into the dishes she might bring to such a couple -- seafood paella is a specialty, but she also prepares simpler meals -- Ms. Daly then settles on the quantity to be delivered and a schedule. A dozen single-serving entrees for $210, and a $15 delivery fee, is a popular option. The meals are fully cooked and just need to be reheated; they can also be frozen. 
 Ms. Daly, who started Fresh Daly in 2004, said her business is picking up after a sharp drop when the economy took a nosedive last year. But she supplements her income by catering. 
 So does Christopher Dutka, owner of Christopher's Kitchen. It is something of a misnomer; Mr. Dutka, 38, who lives in Freehold, actually cooks in a rented 2,000-square-foot space at Jack's Cafe, a Hamilton Square restaurant. 
 Formerly a team leader in prepared foods at several Whole Foods stores, he decided to open his own business when customers there started asking him to cater their events. But in 2007, when Mr. Dutka opened Christopher's Kitchen, his clients were split between those who wanted party catering and those who were looking for regularly delivered dinners.
 ''So many people don't know what to do in the kitchen -- they get overwhelmed or flustered or, they don't have time,'' Mr. Dutka said recently from a table at Jack's Cafe. Now his business is about 40 percent catering and 60 percent meal delivery, to about a dozen regular clients in Monmouth, Mercer, Middlesex and Ocean Counties; a package of three entrees for two people, including options like miso salmon with wok-fried vegetables or saffron orzo with shrimp, costs $170, with a delivery fee for any location more than 20 miles from his kitchen. The meals are fully cooked, ready to be reheated. 
 Some companies evolve into delivery through demand. The partners behind the 800-square-foot kitchen studio DinnerSmith had no intention of bringing their food to others when they opened in May 2007. The company's initial focus, as at Dinner by Design, was on guiding customers through the assembly of their own meals on site. As the shop's reputation grew, though, so did clients' demands, according to Ms. Valle, 57, of Maplewood, and her sister Sharon Grey, 54, of Springfield, who own Dinner-Smith with their friend Mary Meade Smith, 52, of South Orange. 
 ''Once people started coming in and found out our food is good and fresh, they didn't want to do the work anymore,'' Ms. Grey said recently. The meals are preassembled and delivered ready to be cooked; DinnerSmith has no facilities for cooking, only for prepping. DinnerSmith's business is now more than 50 percent pickup orders and deliveries to Maplewood and surrounding towns, Ms. Grey said. A six-meal package of dinners ready to be cooked costs $150, not including the delivery fee; each meal serves four to six. 
 ''People will call us from the train and say, 'What do you have?' '' Ms. Grey said.
 It's a predicament the sisters understand well: ''We used to commute,'' Ms. Valle said. ''There's always that question of, What are you having for dinner?'' 
 These companies deliver prepared meals: 
 CHRISTOPHER'S KITCHEN:
 christopherskitchen.com or (732) 491-3399. 
 DINNER BY DESIGN: (856) 914-9800 or dinnerbydesignkitchen.com. 
 DINNERSMITH: (973) 763-2333 or dinnersmith.com. 
 FRESH DALY BY LILIA: (908) 276-6887 or freshdaly.com. 
 FRESH DIRECT: (212) 796-8002 or freshdirect.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DISHING THEM OUT: Christopher Dutka prepares delivery orders of beef stew, above, and whole wheat pasta with shrimp, tomatoes and asparagus at Christopher's Kitchen in Hamilton Square.
 EFFICIENCY EXPERTS: Fran Valle, far left, and her sister Sharon Grey with a ready-to- deliver family-size meal of Moroccan chicken at DinnerSmith, in Maplewood. Ingredients for the dinners are arranged at each prep station. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); BUDGETS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (66%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



524 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2841 words

HEADLINE: Forecast for Microsoft: Partly Cloudy

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash. 

 BODY:
 RAY OZZIE, the chief software architect at Microsoft, bristles when asked whether people think that new versions of his company's flagship software -- like Windows and Office -- are exciting.
 ''It's tremendously exciting,'' he exclaims defensively, wheeling back from an office table and allowing his hands to flail. ''Are you kidding?''
 Normally subdued and cerebral, Mr. Ozzie inhabits a spacious office at Microsoft's headquarters here that feels equal parts Ikea showroom and computer museum. His shelves and desks are uncluttered, and one of the first I.B.M. personal computers ever made sits centered like an artifact atop a long, squat bookcase. 
 If only the world -- or at least the business world -- were so immaculate and neatly organized. But Mr. Ozzie and his colleagues at Microsoft recognize, of course, that very little in the technology universe ever stays the same. 
 ''What's the old movie line from 'Annie Hall'? Relationships are like sharks; they move forward, or they die,'' says Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive. ''Well, technology companies either move forward, too, or they die. They become less relevant.''
 And according to Mr. Ozzie, we have entered an age that's a far cry from that of the PC enshrined on his altar to beige-box antiquity. Consumers and workers have been gripped, he says, by a ''gizmo revolution.'' 
 But gizmos are only half the battle for Microsoft. True, fashionistas obsess over whether a new laptop will fit into their purses and what type of fashion statement the device will make. Corporate road warriors, meanwhile, exude pride as they whip ultrathin computers with exotic finishes out of their satchels. Yet the most desirable devices these days are those that also allow information addicts on the move to untether themselves from the desktop PC and communicate through the so-called ''cloud.'' 
 With the arrival this week of Windows 7 and a host of complementary, slick computers, Microsoft intends to undermine those Apple ads that mock PCs and their users as stumbling bores. Mr. Ozzie, who plays the role of visionary and strategist at Microsoft, says Windows 7 will let PCs keep pace with other computing devices and, in short, finally make them sexy.
 In a play for its piece of the cloud, Microsoft plans to release a software platform, Windows Azure, next month that represents its bid to lure businesses with online services. While late to cloud computing in spots and a lackluster participant in the mobile market, Microsoft, Mr. Ozzie says, has a shot at reinventing itself and moving beyond the desktop.
 ''This gives us an opportunity as a software vendor to refresh our value proposition,'' he says. ''I just think it's an exciting time for Microsoft.''
 For many years, Microsoft and its leaders could make sweeping statements like this with little public pushback. Microsoft embodied the technology industry and was the grand arbiter of the tools people used to conduct business and navigate the digital era.
 These days, however, Microsoft has legions of doubters. While it still commands a prominent and profitable position in computing, brand experts say consumers stumble when trying to define what the company stands for and whether it can create a grander technological future. 
 ''Microsoft sort of disappeared from the scene,'' says Regis McKenna, a Silicon Valley marketing and strategy expert. ''Every once in a while, they have a delayed Windows release or something like that. By and large, I think the marketplace is focused on what Google and Apple are up to.''
 Critics of Microsoft say it has hugely underestimated market changes and plotted a long and winding course toward irrelevance. It remains too fixated on its old-line, desktop-based franchises, they say -- too slow, too predictable and too, well, Microsoft. 
 ''They are trapped in their own psychosis that the world has to revolve around Windows on the PC,'' says Marc Benioff, the C.E.O. of Salesforce.com, which competes against Microsoft in the business software market. ''Until they stop doing that, they will drag their company into the gutter.''
 While Mr. Ozzie welcomes the gizmo revolution, much of what it appears to entail runs counter to Microsoft's historical strengths. The revolution stretches well beyond a fascination with the aesthetic appeal of a computing device; it also marks a transition in which the consumer, not the office worker, is the dominant force shaping the tech landscape.
 Consumers now buy more PCs than businesses do, and their wants and desires for better-looking devices have invaded the cubicle. The current breed of consumer has shown an ability to turn something like the Apple iPhone into an overnight sensation, then demand that companies embrace it. Google, meanwhile, uses its influential Web search and YouTube properties to introduce people to its e-mail, document and Web browser software, and Facebook now provides inspiration to business software makers.
 For Google, winning over consumers is crucial to its strategy of infiltrating corporations and deflating Microsoft's core businesses. ''We are the next generation,'' says Dave Girouard, the president of Google's business products division. ''The big difference in technology here is the pace of innovation.''
 While the Internet and network-connected devices are anything but novel, the ability to snatch data anywhere off of the Web -- so-called cloud computing -- has started to catch on with consumers and businesses in a more meaningful way. As such services become more popular, Microsoft's grip on computing loosens, its critics say. 
 ''They are not the company they once were in terms of market position,'' says Bruce R. Chizen, a former Microsoft employee and former C.E.O. of Adobe Systems, the publishing software maker. ''They no longer have a monopoly that is critical to the future of computing.''
 Mr. Ballmer, Mr. Ozzie and others at Microsoft see things rather differently, and for the last year have argued that coming software releases for PCs, data centers, mobile devices and game consoles will confirm exactly how Microsoft will remain a pivotal force on the tech landscape.
 Mr. Ballmer contends that Microsoft is the only company prepared and positioned to merge computing from both ends -- the desktop and the cloud. ''We're just investing more broadly than everybody else,'' he says, adding that, when it comes to software, ''I want us to invent everything that's important on the planet.''
 Pundits and investors are ready to judge how well Mr. Ballmer lives up to these claims, and his tenure may ultimately be decided by how well his enterprise floats up to the cloud.
 LIKE almost all companies in the PC industry, Microsoft has been punished by a historic decline in computer sales during the recession. 
 Over the past year, it has endured a string of humbling company firsts. In January, it began laying off up to 5,000 people -- its first-ever broad personnel cuts. That followed its first declines in Windows sales and preceded its first yearly drop in revenue. 
 Despite such setbacks, Microsoft continues to produce profits that are the envy of the technology industry. In July, it ended its fiscal year with a 3 percent drop in revenue, to $58.4 billion, still bringing in a $14.6 billion profit. Microsoft has a war chest of $31.45 billion, including cash and short-term investments, and its shares have recovered from a low of $14.87 in March -- its lowest price in more than 10 years -- and now trade at $26.50. 
 Executives at Microsoft say it has gotten its house in order, putting an end to delayed, clunky products like the maligned and then ignored Windows Vista. If a broad economic recovery occurs, Microsoft's fortunes will rise as they always have in rosier times. 
 ''I do believe that Microsoft should be able to benefit dramatically as the economy comes out of its downturn,'' said Marilyn J. Dicks-Riley, the chief executive of the Lynmar Capital Group, which bought more than 800,000 shares of Microsoft earlier this year. ''We are of the view that Microsoft is committed to long-term innovation.''
 Microsoft does, in fact, have a dazzling array of long-term bets. It has earmarked close to $10 billion for research and development spending over the next year. These funds cover work in desktop software, data center software, developer tools, health care systems, video game consoles and games, music players, phones and phone software, Web properties and office collaboration products. In Internet search, Microsoft has unveiled a well-received engine called Bing and has pledged to spend what it takes to make a meaningful dent in Google's main business. 
 Some investors contend that Microsoft has its fingers in too many pies, developing too many products. The company is struggling to please consumers and workers at the same time. Despite its hunt for the next big thing in so many areas, Microsoft more often than not finds itself playing the role of follower, trying to buy its way into markets that other companies dominate. 
 ''This used to be the company that everyone looked to for innovation and excitement,'' says James R. Gregory, the chief executive of CoreBrand, a brand consulting company. ''It has lost that edginess in a fairly convincing way.''
 According to a new CoreBrand study, Microsoft's reputation and the perception of its management and investment potential have been declining for over a decade, with the drop-off accelerating over the last five years. 
 Mr. Ballmer concedes that some Microsoft shareholders take issue with its long, costly pursuit of businesses like music players and search. Still, he remains committed to a broad course of action.
 ''I think a lot of companies in our business do give up on things too early, in my opinion,'' he says.
 But for Microsoft, just doing the basics has been problematic. 
 It released the Windows Vista operating system in 2007 to widespread ridicule. The software arrived years late and had lost many of its planned ground-breaking features.
 Microsoft's primary selling point over a narrow specialist like Apple has long been that it offers choice and caters to the masses. Yet Microsoft couldn't get Vista to work well with partners' hardware and software. 
 ''We were trying to do too much change in too rapid a fashion,'' Mr. Ballmer says. ''And so, for me the issue isn't that we know how to make hardware and software work together and the like. The question there was I think we attempted too much.'' 
 Microsoft also faces hurdles in the mobile phone market. For many years, it has sold software for a broad array of phones, but Mr. Ballmer has been disappointed with his mobile division, particularly when devices like the iPhone blindsided his company. 
 While Microsoft has tried to bolster its phone business through acquisitions and internal development, it remains months away from announcing the fruits of a project, code-named Pink, to revitalize its phone technology. And former insiders contend that Pink, like so many Microsoft efforts, has been dragged down by bureaucracy and compromise.
 Even worse, Microsoft's top executives have fretted recently about the potential fallout with customers when the company lost personal data tied to T-Mobile USA's phone services -- especially any doubts the incident raised about its mobile, cloud and security claims. 
 But Microsoft can point to places where its big bets have paid off. Bing takes a new approach to search by giving customers a glossier interface and, often, more detailed results than they will find with Google. And the Xbox game console and Xbox Live service have put Microsoft at the forefront of online gaming. 
 MICROSOFT says the cloud acts as a natural complement to its traditional software products, and the company often talks about the ''three screens and a cloud'' strategy -- which covers computers, phones and TVs all connected to common services. 
 ''I would say there's clearly a change in the fundamental platform of computing,'' Mr. Ballmer says. ''The cloud is now not just the Internet; it's really a fundamental computing resource that's getting thought about and looked at in a different way.''
 But the cloud presents Microsoft with a host of challenges to its time-tested model of selling desktop and computer server software for lucrative licensing fees. Fast-paced rivals like Salesforce, Amazon and Google hope to undercut its prices while adding software features every few weeks or months rather than every few years, as Microsoft has done. 
 Microsoft executives acknowledge that the company had perhaps stalled, licking its wounds and trying to figure out how to behave while under scrutiny after years of antitrust court battles. 
 ''We've moved to be a mature company, but maybe too nice a guy in some senses, and not maybe moving fast enough in things,'' says Bob Muglia, a 20-year Microsoft employee and president of its server software business.
 Rivals now simply dismiss Microsoft as a laggard rather than hitting it with the Evil Empire criticisms so familiar in the 1990s. In its place stands Google, which now has Microsoft's mantle as a game-changing technology behemoth and is also increasingly perceived as a dominant competitor whose power warrants concern.
 Google's rise has cast Microsoft at least partly in the unfamiliar role of a white knight. 
 ''Until recently, Microsoft was the only empire,'' says Nicholas G. Carr, an author who has chronicled the rise of cloud computing. ''Now, I think there are empires of the Internet as well as of the PC, and they are colliding.'' 
 In an effort to continue remaking its image, Microsoft is courting young software developers and cloud computing start-ups. Company executives acknowledge losing touch with these crucial audiences as open-source software turned into the standard for people looking to create the next wave of applications and services. 
 These days, Microsoft gives away business software to students and will let certain start-ups use its software free.
 ''They got scared,'' says Bryan Trussel, a former Microsoft executive and now head of Glympse, a mobile software start-up. ''I think they get it now, but the question is how far behind they are.''
 Microsoft executives freely take swipes at Google's online office applications and its planned operating system, Chrome OS. They're also quick to remind anyone who will listen that it's still early in the cloud computing era, and that things like Amazon's online data center services are but a nifty curiosity. 
 According to Mr. Ballmer, the public has a tendency to get caught up in the success of a device like the iPhone or Google's search service and to underestimate the complexities that arise from trying to connect consumers and workers in today's world. 
 There is a notion, he says, that ''he who is strong in the one thing that works in the cloud should, by default, control the cloud. Or he who controls one device should control them all. None of that really works all that well.''
 Microsoft has decades of experience creating software, courting developers and interacting with businesses on a scale that competitors have yet to encounter. Its investments in software for televisions, phones and computers surpass that of all rivals. And it intends to apply these strengths across an array of software and services. 
 For its part, Google says that it has two million businesses using its online applications today and that the business produces a ''few hundred million dollars in revenue'' a year and turns a profit. Amazon, meanwhile, has customers like Pfizer and Nasdaq tapping into its data center services, while Microsoft's competing service remains weeks away. 
 ''I think Microsoft is still moving pretty slowly as it shifts at least part of its business to the cloud,'' Mr. Carr says. ''Some of that is due to its corporate culture, but I think most of it is due to it trying to protect very lucrative businesses with high profit margins.''
 Microsoft's investors have started to put the company on the clock, expecting its traditional software to thrive and pay for a grander vision that needs to materialize sooner rather than later. 
 ''I am willing to give the present management another 15 months,'' says Ms. Dicks-Riley at the investment firm.
 EVEN Microsoft's loudest critics consider the company itself durable. 
 ''They won't fade away as long as there are PCs,'' Mr. Benioff says. ''But they are not delivering the future of our industry, either.''
 Executives at Microsoft talk in far more pragmatic terms. Slick laptops, cloud services and fancy cellphones all play into its strengths of making software that hundreds of millions of people can use. The trends come and go, but Microsoft's reach and ability to play on the grandest scale remain constant.
 ''We can never become complacent, because just when the services transformation has gotten to this point, the next transformation comes,'' Mr. Ozzie says. ''That's the way our company works.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Microsoft and its C.E.O., Steven A. Ballmer, talk about ''three screens and a cloud'' -- computers, phones and TVs, linked to common services.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIGUEL VILLAGRAN/GETTY IMAGES)(BU1)
Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's chief software architect, says his company is reinventing itself. A reminder of the early days, an old PC, sits on his bookcase.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU7) CHARTS: The Year That Sales Fell: Microsoft's revenue declined for the first time in the company's history in its 2009 fiscal year, and its profits declined for only the third time.
Microsoft's robust software divisions continued to generate huge profits, though they fell slightly in the last fiscal year. Performance improved in its server products division, but declined in online services and entertainment.
Microsoft has lost some ground to Apple in the computer market, while its momentum in the smartphone market has waned.(Sources: Microsoft
 IDC)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); NETWORK SERVERS (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



525 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Police Offer Reward in Beating of Mexican Immigrant in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By SIMON AKAM

 BODY:
The Police Department on Saturday provided more details and offered a reward in an assault against a Mexican immigrant in Brooklyn last month that is being investigated as a hate crime. 
 The immigrant, Mario Vera, 37, was returning on bicycle to his home in Bushwick from a food pantry in Manhattan on Sept. 23 when he was attacked by three men who shouted anti-Hispanic slurs, according to the police and a spokesman for Mr. Vera's family. 
 Mr. Vera was hit on the back of the head with a hard object, the authorities said, leaving him hospitalized with serious injuries. 
 ''It's still delicate,'' said Walter Sinche, the executive director of the International Ecuadorean Alliance, a community group, who is acting as a spokesman for Mr. Vera's family. ''He can hardly walk. He's not talking. He doesn't recognize his own family.'' 
 The police said they were offering a $12,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of Mr. Vera's attackers. Mr. Vera told investigators that he believed the attack took place close to his home, but because of his injuries, he was unable to provide a precise location. The police said they believed the beating happened between 1 and 4 p.m. 
 Mr. Vera, a construction worker, collapsed in front of his home and started vomiting after the attack, the police said. During the next few days, he had trouble speaking, walking and sleeping, and complained of headaches and dizziness.
 Mr. Vera's wife, Ana Maria Gallardo, took her husband to Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center in Brooklyn, where doctors gave him headache medication and sent him home. But when Mr. Vera's condition did not improve, Ms. Gallardo, on the advice of a social worker, took him to the Latino Health Institute in Manhattan on Oct. 1. 
 A nurse there checked Mr. Vera and told him to go to Beth Israel Medical Center, also in Manhattan, where he is in stable condition, according to a hospital spokeswoman. 
 With her husband unable to work, Ms. Gallardo, who is unemployed, and the couple's 17-year-old daughter are struggling financially, Mr. Sinche said.
 ''They are also going through a tough economic situation,'' he said. ''They don't have money for rent or transportation.'' 
 Ms. Gallardo did not report the attack to the police until Oct. 9. She could not be reached for comment, but she and Mr. Vera are illegal immigrants, Mr. Sinche said, and that may have made her reluctant to contact the police, even though officers are not supposed to ask the immigration status of crime victims. 
 ''Usually, they are afraid to contact the police officers,'' said Joel Magallan, executive director of the Asociacion Tepeyac, a Latino advocacy group. ''I know that police officers should not ask if they have documents or not, but I don't think most immigrants who are undocumented here know that.'' 
 In a bias attack in Bushwick in 2008, an Ecuadorean immigrant, Jose Sucuzhanay, was fatally beaten, and two men have been charged in his killing.
 The Mexican Consulate in New York denounced the attack on Mr. Vera.
 ''The Mexican government regrets and strongly condemns such unacceptable actions against a Mexican national, and has immediately requested from the local authorities a thorough investigation of this crime and the prompt implementation of measures to capture and prosecute those responsible for the attack,'' the consulate said in a statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HOSPITALS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); WALKING & JOGGING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (63%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



526 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: The Science of Spending Stimulus Money Wisely

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and MAGGIE FAZELI FARD

 BODY:
Dr. Wim Leemans, a physicist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, shows a touch of parental pride for the hulking machine he affectionately calls T-Rex -- a high-intensity laser that pushes electrons around. But a new machine called Bella -- formally, the Berkeley Lab Laser Accelerator -- is uppermost on his mind these days. 
 Bella will be twice as large and 20 times more powerful, and Dr. Leemans just got the $20.7 million in federal stimulus money that he needs to build it. ''Bella is T-Rex on steroids,'' said Dr. Leemans, a slight man of 46. Bella has the potential, he said, to help restore the nation's prowess in particle physics.
Less certain, however, is whether Bella represents smart economics. The cash for the project is a tiny slice of the stimulus package developed by Congress and the Obama administration to jump-start the economy. The stimulus legislation included about $18 billion for nondefense scientific research and development, a significant boost to the estimated $61.6 billion already going to science in the 2009 budget, according to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. But experts are divided about whether projects like Bella are compatible with the intent of Congress to create jobs as fast as possible. 
 ''This is the kind of spending that is not really oriented toward jump-starting the economy and ending the recession,'' said John Taylor, a professor of economics at Stanford, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and an adviser to Senator John McCain's presidential campaign. ''It is longer term, and because of that, I think it shouldn't be classified as a stimulus.'' 
 But some other economists and business leaders defend this use of stimulus money, saying federal research grants gave birth to some important sector of the region's economy, from microprocessors to computer networking, from biotechnology to the Internet.
 ''This is the best kind of government spending there is,'' said Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google and a member of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. ''It has a short-term stimulative effect in terms of jobs and consumer spending. And it has the potential of inventing something very important like the Internet.''
 There is no doubt of the importance of the grants for science and for the Bay Area's economy. They have turbo-charged research prospects at the Berkeley laboratory, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, which is managed by Stanford University, and dozens of other research facilities around the Bay Area. But some people worry that the money is not being spent fast enough. Thus far, Dr. Leemans has spent about $350,000 of his stimulus money; $12 million in additional contracts are set to be signed this week.
 In recent years, the budgets of SLAC and the Berkeley laboratory have stagnated, imperiling their longtime status as leading centers of science and innovation.
 When Dr. Persis Drell was appointed director of the Stanford facility 18 months ago, her first task was to lay off nearly 200 people, or 13 percent of the staff. Since then, the laboratory has been retooling itself, shifting its focus from particle physics and using its infrastructure to build the world's most powerful X-ray laser. 
 It will, scientists believe, give them new ability to understand existing materials, leading to advances in energy technology, medicine and other fields.
 Part of SLAC's $90 million in stimulus money will pay for the last of six experimental stations so scientists can take full advantage of the $420 million Linac Coherent Light Source, as the X-ray laser is known. Dr. Drell compared it to a new kind of microscope.
 ''It is a tool that will allow us to see what was previously unseen,'' she said. 
 For Dr. Leemans, the money for Bella could not have come soon enough. Particle physics in the United States is at a crossroads. A 2006 National Research Council committee, led by Harold Shapiro, an economics professor and former president of Princeton University, concluded that a lack of investment meant that the United States risked forfeiting its leadership in particle physics. 
 ''Simply put, the intellectual center of gravity is moving abroad and the U.S. has not put forward a compelling strategic vision to contribute to the global enterprise,'' Dr. Shapiro wrote in 2006 in the CERN Courier, a niche publication intended for the high-energy physics community. 
 Bella could help reverse things. Many scientists believe that few, if any, traditional particle accelerators -- massive structures like the $9 billion Large Hadron Collider near Geneva, which is 17 miles in circumference -- will be built in the future.
 Bella may usher in a generation of smaller, cheaper particle accelerators. By using high-intensity lasers, it aims to deliver in one meter the kind of energy produced by a 500 meter conventional accelerator.
 Bella has other uses. By producing intense X-ray beams to do freeze-frame photography of atoms and molecules, it could lead to better understanding of chemical reactions, which in turn could help researchers build better solar cells or discover new drugs.
 Dr. Leemans said that other countries had been investing in similar technology. ''Without the stimulus money,'' he said, ''we would have sat on the sidelines.'' 
 The juxtaposition of the newly full coffers at the Berkeley laboratory and the financial straits of the University of California, Berkeley, which manages the laboratory, is awkward for some of the its scientists. 
 ''It's hard to celebrate when others just outside the fence are hurting,'' said Dr. Steve Gourlay, the director of the accelerator and fusion research division at the laboratory. ''But it has been a long time since we have had this kind of cash infusion.'' 
 The laboratory's yearly budget oscillated between $503 million and $523 million from 2004 to 2007, and then rose sharply in the last two years to $659 million in 2009. 
 The stimulus will bring an additional $213.7 million over the next few years for new infrastructure and seismic upgrades and to support research projects in fields ranging from nanotechnology to high-speed networking. 
 Some staunch supporters of government-financed research agree with Mr. Taylor, saying that the economic impact of these projects will come too slowly. 
 ''Funding for these projects detracted from our ability to do more public spending that would create jobs right away,'' said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy. 
 The federal government closely monitors the results of its stimulus grants. But despite the detailed reports recipients file, determining the precise economic impact is sometimes difficult. 
 SLAC has spent only $4 million of its $90 million so far; it has already hired about 50 new employees, and other jobs have been created through subcontractors.
 The Berkeley laboratory has estimated it will create about 700 jobs for infrastructure and construction projects. In addition, the money will help to create a number of research, engineering and other jobs at the laboratory, and allow administrators to retain positions that might otherwise have been eliminated.
 But much of the impact will be down the economic daisy chain of suppliers. The bulk of the laboratory's biggest grant -- $62 million earmarked for a prototype high-speed network connecting government research facilities -- will go to buy services and equipment from network operators and technology companies. The number of jobs created is hard to quantify.
 And not all purchases from outside suppliers will directly help the American economy: $7.5 million of Bella's cost will go to purchase specialized laser equipment to be built by a company in France.
 But Dr. Leemans said that the planned development of Bella had already helped in intangible ways: he has been able to retain four top scientists who were being wooed by rivals in Europe.
 ''Having the best infrastructure,'' he said, ''gets you the best people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Wim Leemans has been able to revitalize his research at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory with stimulus money.(pg. 33A)
 From left, Dr. Nicholas Matlis, Dr. Wim Leemans and Dr. Kei Nakamura in the lab.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 33B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); PHYSICS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (78%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SCIENCE POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (68%); JOHN MCCAIN (52%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009



527 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: But Does He Do Laundry?

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
BROKERS have always had to go that extra mile to complete a sale and make a customer happy, but in this difficult real estate market, brokers say their efforts are being stretched further and further. 
 After Alexei Ratmansky, the Russian dancer and choreographer and former artistic director of the Bolshoi Ballet, came to New York earlier this year to join the American Ballet Theater as artist in residence, his broker, Kevin B. Brown of Sotheby's International Realty, became completely caught up in the life that Mr. Ratmansky and his wife, Tatiana, were building in the city.
 Mr. Ratmansky took up his new assignment at A.B.T. in January, but moved his family to New York in the spring, where they settled first in a hotel, and then in expensive furnished rooms on Eighth Avenue and 50th Street. 
 After a frustrating search for a rental, they were introduced to Mr. Brown by a friend. Mr. Brown invited them out to his summer home in Southampton, where they tried to work through the classic Manhattan real estate dilemmas: buy or rent? Live near the school or near the office?
 Within a few weeks, Mr. Brown had helped them find a place to live, a new condominium on 340 East 23rd Street near First Avenue, a few blocks from the United Nations International School, where they had enrolled their son, Vasily, 11. They signed a contract for $1.1 million for a 14th-floor apartment at the Gramercy Condominium, a 22-story building with walls of bluish glass and interiors designed by Philippe Starck.
 But that was only the beginning of their relationship. The Ratmanskys went off for an engagement in Australia, returning to find the closing delayed because the tenant, a Korean diplomat, had not moved out. 
 With no place to stay, they moved into the ground floor of Mr. Brown's new town house at Northside Piers, a condominium development in Williamsburg. Mr. Brown took them to Ikea for an emergency supply of towels and sheets. He shepherded them to Bed Bath & Beyond and ABC Carpet to assemble the things they needed for their first Manhattan home while they waited for their furniture to arrive from Russia.
 They stayed at the town house until the closing on Aug. 24 and moved in the next day, equipped with air mattresses lent by Mr. Brown. While he coordinated delivery, his nanny watched their son. 
 The purchase attracted little attention at the time because the deed used different transliterations of their names (he was listed as Ratmanskiy and she as Ratmanskaya).
 ''We had some people say Manhattan is too expensive and too busy, and some people suggested Brooklyn,'' Mr. Ratmansky said. ''But when you first move to New York, it is nice to live in Manhattan. Kevin showed great humor and patience.''
 Or as Mr. Brown said, ''It sounds a little trite, but in this new economy we have to come up with a new level of service, and we are all feeling our way.'' Besides, he said, even in good economic times ''I fall in love with one out of 10 customers,'' and the Ratmanskys were ''real troupers.''
 And long after the closing, he returned to set up their television.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alexei Ratmansky, artist in residence at the American Ballet Theater, and resident of 340 East 23rd.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BALLET (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DANCERS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (72%); AQUANTIVE INC (55%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (83%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (52%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (52%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



528 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 9465 words

HEADLINE: His Long War

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS. 
Dexter Filkins, who first reported from Afghanistan and Pakistan more than a decade ago, is a staff writer for the magazine and author of ''The Forever War.''

 BODY:
I.
 Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal stepped off the whirring Black Hawk and headed straight into town. He had come to Garmsir, a dusty outpost along the Helmand River in southern Afghanistan, to size up the war that President Obama has asked him to save. McChrystal pulled off his flak jacket and helmet. His face, skeletal and austere, seemed a piece of the desert itself.
 He was surrounded by a clutch of bodyguards, normal for a four-star general, and an array of the Marine officers charged with overseeing the town. Garmsir had been under Taliban control until May 2008, when a force of American Marines swept in and cleared it. Since then, the British, then the Americans, have been holding it and trying, ever so slowly, to build something in Garmsir -- a government, an army, a police force -- for the first time since the war began more than eight years ago. 
 The Marines around McChrystal, including the local battalion commander, Lt. Col. Christian Cabaniss, looked surprised, even alarmed, when McChrystal removed his protective gear. But as the group walked the rutted streets into Garmsir's bazaar, they began taking off their helmets, too. 
 ''Who owns the land here?'' McChrystal asked, peering up the street and into the shops. ''Is it owned by the farmers or by landlords?'' 
 It was the sort of question a sociologist, or an economist, would ask. No one offered an answer.
 ''If you owned 200 acres here, would you live on it, or would you live somewhere else?'' McChrystal asked. 
 The entourage entered the bazaar. The Afghans sensed that an important American had arrived, and they began to gather in groups inside the stalls. Then the general stopped and turned. 
 ''What do you need here?'' McChrystal asked. 
 A translator turned the general's words into Pashto. 
 ''We need schools!'' one Afghan called back. ''Schools!'' 
 ''We're working on that,'' McChrystal said. ''Those things take time.'' 
 McChrystal walked some more, engaging another group of Afghans. He posed the same question.
 ''Security,'' a man said. ''We need security. Security first, then the other things will be possible.'' 
 ''That is what we are trying to do,'' McChrystal said. ''But it's going to take time. Success takes time.'' 
 The questions kept coming, and the answer was the same. After a couple of hours, McChrystal put on his helmet and flak jacket, boarded the Black Hawk and flew to another town.
 Success takes time, but how much time does Stanley McChrystal have? The war in Afghanistan is now in its ninth year. The Taliban, measured by the number of their attacks, are stronger than at any time since the Americans toppled their government at the end of 2001. American soldiers and Marines are dying at a faster rate than ever before. Polls in the United States show that opposition to the war is growing steadily.
 Worse yet, for all of America's time in Afghanistan -- for all the money and all the blood -- the lack of accomplishment is manifest wherever you go. In Garmsir, there is nothing remotely resembling a modern state that could take over if America and its NATO allies left. Tour the country with a general, and you will see very quickly how vast and forbidding this country is and how paltry the effort has been. 
 And finally, there is the government in Kabul. President Hamid Karzai, once the darling of the West, rose to the top of nationwide elections in August on what appears to be a tide of fraud. The Americans and their NATO allies are confronting the possibility that the government they are supporting, building and defending is a rotten shell. 
 In his initial assessment of the country, sent to President Obama early last month, McChrystal described an Afghanistan on the brink of collapse and an America at the edge of defeat. To reverse the course of the war, McChrystal presented President Obama with what could be the most momentous foreign-policy decision of his presidency: escalate or fail. McChrystal has reportedly asked for 40,000 additional American troops -- there are 65,000 already here -- and an accelerated effort to train Afghan troops and police and build an Afghan state. If President Obama can't bring himself to step up the fight, McChrystal suggested, then he might as well give up. 
 ''Inadequate resources,'' McChrystal wrote, ''will likely result in failure.'' 
 The magnitude of the choice presented by McChrystal, and now facing President Obama, is difficult to overstate. For what McChrystal is proposing is not a temporary, Iraq-style surge -- a rapid influx of American troops followed by a withdrawal. McChrystal's plan is a blueprint for an extensive American commitment to build a modern state in Afghanistan, where one has never existed, and to bring order to a place famous for the empires it has exhausted. Even under the best of circumstances, this effort would most likely last many more years, cost hundreds of billions of dollars and entail the deaths of many more American women and men. 
 And that's if it succeeds. 
 A few days after McChrystal filed his report, I sat down with him in his headquarters in Kabul. He seemed upbeat and relaxed. The report was still secret -- it hadn't yet leaked to the public. The ensuing furor was still to come, as was talk that McChrystal was considering resigning, which he was forced to publicly dispel. The atmosphere was not tense -- not yet. Only urgent. 
 ''I took this job because I was asked to take it, and because it is very, very important,'' McChrystal told me. ''Admiral Mullen'' -- head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- ''specifically said to me: 'You go out, you decide what needs to be done, and you tell me whatever you need to do that. Don't constrain yourself because of politics. You tell me what you need.' ''
 I asked him about Obama.
 ''I didn't get any assurances from anyone that I would be given any amount of time,'' McChrystal said. ''I didn't get any assurances from anyone that I would be given any amount of resources. I didn't ask for any assurances.'' 
 For a moment, McChrystal paused. 
 ''I don't feel like the lonely man in the arena,'' he said, ''with all the pressure on my shoulders.'' 
 II.
 THE MARINES WERE walking along the sandy road when the Afghans lined up to watch the bomb.
 The Marines, members of Echo Company of the Second Battalion, Eighth Marine Regiment, had plodded through a mile of sodden cornfields in the heat of Helmand Province and climbed a rock promontory to an observation post once manned by soldiers of the Soviet Union. They arrived in early July as part of the big push ordered by President Obama; General McChrystal had visited their command post in Garmsir, 12 miles up the road, three days before. 
 The Marines had been in plain view for more than two hours. And when they moved down from the old Soviet lookout and walked up the dirt path that runs alongside the hamlet of Mian Poshteh, the Afghans started to come out. 
 At first, a lone man walked along the edge of one of Mian Poshteh's mud-brick houses. Then he stopped and turned and stood, watching. Then another man, this one in an irrigation ditch, stuck his head up over the ledge. A pair of children stopped playing. They turned to watch. 
 ''Something's going down,'' Sgt. Jonathan Delgado said. He was 22 and from Kissimmee, Fla. 
 ''Watch that guy,'' said Lance Cpl. Joshua Vance, pointing. He was also 22, from Raleigh, N.C.
 Two more Afghans arrived. They stopped and stood and looked at a spot just ahead of the Marines. A man on a motorcycle drove past, driving slowly, turning his head. Then the bomb went off. It had been buried in the path itself, a few feet under the sand, a few feet in front of the Marines. 
 The blast from the bomb was sharp and deep, and a dirty cloud shot up a hundred feet. Waves from the blast shot out, toward the village and toward us. Ten Marines at the front of the line disappeared. 
 ''We're hit! We're hit!'' Delgado shouted, and everyone ran to the front. 
 Marines began staggering out of the cloud. They were holding their ears and eyes. 
 ''God, I'm still here,'' Cpl. Matt Kaiser said, rubbing his ears. Kaiser had been at the front, sweeping the ground with a mine detector. He was from Oak Harbor, Ohio. ''I'm still here.'' 
 ''No one's hit,'' Delgado said. ''Jesus, no one's hit.'' 
 The rest of the young men staggered out of the cloud while the Marines trained their guns on Mian Poshteh. 
 The Afghans were gone. 
 ''My bell's rung pretty bad,'' Kaiser said. He was shaking his head and glancing up and down and half laughing. 
 The bomber had missed. The weapon had been what the Marines refer to as ''command-detonated,'' which meant that someone, probably in Mian Poshteh, had punched a trigger -- on a wire leading to the bomb -- when the Marines came up the path. The triggerman needed to remember precisely where he had buried his bomb. Clearly, he had forgotten. If he had waited five more seconds, he would have killed several Marines. 
 Delgado, Kaiser and the others gathered themselves and walked toward Mian Poshteh. On their radio, the Marines could hear voices coming from inside the village. 
 ''Is everything ready?'' a voice said in Pashto. 
 ''Everything is ready,'' another voice said. ''Let's see what they do.''
 The Marines stayed back. Earlier in the war, they would have gone into Mian Poshteh; they would have surrounded the village and kicked in doors until they found the bomber. Most likely they would have found him -- and maybe along the way they would have killed some civilians and smashed up some homes. And made a lot of enemies. The Marines are a very different force now, with very different goals. They walked to within 50 feet of Mian Poshteh, and Lt. Patrick Bragan shouted: ''Send us five men. Five men.''
 Minutes passed, and five Afghans appeared. They were unarmed and ordinary looking. 
 ''I have no idea who did that,'' an old man named Fazul Mohammed said. 
 ''Maybe they came at night,'' a man named Assadullah said. 
 ''I only heard the explosion,'' a man named Syed Wali said. 
 The face of Lieutenant Bragan was pink from the heat and from pleading. 
 ''All you have to do is tell us,'' he said. ''We're here to help you.'' 
 The Marines gave up. Near sunset, they started back the way they came, through the head-high corn. Delgado turned to one of his buddies, Cpl. John Shymanik, 22. 
 ''They didn't get us today,'' Delgado said.
 ''They're still trying, though,'' Shymanik said.
 III.
 STANLEY MCCHRYSTAL SAT at the head of a U-shaped bank of tables in a sealed room at Bagram Airfield, a main hub of the war. He was surrounded by five giant video screens. On each screen was another general -- American, German, Dutch, French, Italian -- each commanding a different part of Afghanistan. It was McChrystal's morning briefing, known as the commander's update. 
 One by one, the generals scrolled through the events from the day before: a roadside bomb in Khost, small-arms fire in Ghazni, a British soldier killed in Helmand Province. Then one of the European generals started talking about an airstrike. A group of Taliban insurgents had attacked a coalition convoy, and the soldiers called for air support. A Hellfire missile, the European general said, obliterated an Afghan compound. The general -- he cannot be named because of the confidentiality of the meeting -- was moving on to the next topic when McChrystal stopped him. 
 ''Can you come back to that, please?'' McChrystal said. 
 McChrystal's voice is higher than you would expect for a four-star general. 
 ''Yes, sir,'' the European general said. 
 ''We just struck a compound,'' McChrystal said. ''I would like for you to explain to me the process you used to shoot a Hellfire missile into a compound that might have had civilians in it.'' 
 The European commander looked at an aide and muttered something. The killing of Afghan civilians, usually caused by inadvertent American and NATO airstrikes, has become the most sensitive issue between the Afghans and their Western guests. Each time civilians are killed, the Taliban launch a campaign of very public propaganda. 
 ''Were there civilians in that compound?'' McChrystal asked. He was leaning into the microphone on the table. 
 The commander started to talk, but McChrystal kept going.
 ''Who made that decision?'' McChrystal said.
 An aide handed the European general a sheaf of papers. 
 ''I'm sorry, but the system is not responsive enough for us to get that kind of information that quickly,'' the general said. 
 McChrystal's face began to tighten. Generals tend to treat one another with the utmost deference.
 ''We bomb a compound, and I don't know about it until the next morning?'' McChrystal said. ''Don't just tell me, 'Yeah, it's O.K.' I want to know about it. I'm being a hard-ass about it.'' 
 The European general looked down at his papers. 
 ''It seems it was not a Hellfire missile but a 500-pound bomb,'' he said. 
 McChrystal took off his reading glasses and looked around the room -- at the video screens and the other American officers. 
 ''Gentlemen, we need to understand the implications of what we are doing,'' he said. ''Air power contains the seeds of our own destruction. A guy with a long-barrel rifle runs into a compound, and we drop a 500-pound bomb on it? Civilian casualties are not just some reality with the Washington press. They are a reality for the Afghan people. If we use airpower irresponsibly, we can lose this fight.'' 
 IV.
 LATER THAT DAY, during a drive through Kabul, McChrystal told me that he had decided to drastically restrict the circumstances under which airstrikes would be permitted: for all practical purposes, he was banning bombs and missiles in populated areas unless his men were in danger of being overrun. 
 ''Even if it means we are going to step away from a firefight and fight them another day, that's O.K.,'' McChrystal told me.
 McChrystal's missive was the first in an array he has drafted aimed at radically transforming the way America and its allies wage war here. In his first weeks on the job, McChrystal issued directives instructing his men on how to comport themselves with Afghans (''Think of how you would expect a foreign army to operate in your neighborhood, among your families and your children, and act accordingly''); how to fight (''Think of counterinsurgency as an argument to win the support of the people''); even how to drive (''in ways that respect the safety and well-being of the Afghan people''). At the heart of McChrystal's strategy are three principles: protect the Afghan people, build an Afghan state and make friends with whomever you can, including insurgents. Killing the Taliban is now among the least important things that are expected of NATO soldiers. 
 ''You can kill Taliban forever,'' McChrystal said, ''because they are not a finite number.'' 
 That strategy is underscored by an extraordinary sense of urgency -- that eight years into this war the margin for error for the Americans has shrunk to zero. ''If every soldier is authorized to make one mistake,'' McChrystal said, ''then we lose the war.'' 
 While Afghanistan is not Iraq, McChrystal's plan does resemble in some ways that of General David H. Petraeus, who took command of American forces in Iraq in early 2007, when the country was disintegrating in a civil war. For four years, the American military had tried to crush the Iraqi insurgency and got the opposite: the insurgency bloomed, and the country imploded. 
 By refocusing their efforts on protecting Iraqi civilians, American troops were able to cut off the insurgents from their base of support. Then the Americans struck peace deals with tens of thousands of former fighters -- the phenomenon known as the Sunni Awakening -- while at the same time fashioning a formidable Iraqi army. After a bloody first push, violence in Iraq dropped to its lowest levels since the war began.
 ''It was all in,'' Petraeus told me about that time.
 And so if it was Petraeus who saved Iraq from cataclysm, it now falls to McChrystal to save Afghanistan. 
 Petraeus and McChrystal are in fact close -- their bond solidified in the crucible of Iraq. Petraeus, now head of the U.S. military's Central Command, with overall responsibility for both Iraq and Afghanistan, pushed McChrystal for the job. ''He was a key part of the team in Iraq,'' Petraeus told me.
 Now 55, Stanley McChrystal is the son of Herbert J. McChrystal Jr., an Army general who served in Germany during the American occupation and fought in Korea and Vietnam. Stanley McChrystal was the fourth child in a family of five boys and one girl; all of them grew up to serve in the military or marry someone who did. ''My dad was always the soldier I wanted to be,'' McChrystal said. 
 He graduated from West Point in 1976, at the Army's post-Vietnam nadir. Over the next 30 years, McChrystal ascended the ranks, mostly by way of the elite, secretive wing of Special Operations, in units like the Rangers. He served as a staff officer and an operations officer in the first gulf war and did stints at Harvard and the Council on Foreign Relations (where he is remembered for running a dozen miles each morning to the council's offices on the Upper East Side). 
 With his long and gaunt face and his long and lean body, McChrystal looks almost preternaturally alert -- coiled, hungry. He pushes himself mercilessly, sleeping four or five hours a night, eating one meal a day. He runs eight miles at a clip, usually with an audiobook at his ears. ''I was the fastest runner at Fort Stewart, Ga., until he arrived,'' Petraeus told me recently. ''He's a tremendous athlete.'' On a recent daylong helicopter trip touring bases around the country, McChrystal yawned throughout the day -- the only evidence of his exhaustion. He drank regularly from a large mug of coffee, black. 
 As McChrystal drives himself, he sometimes affords little tolerance to those who do not. 
 V.
 MCCHRYSTAL WAS ONLY a month into his new job when he strode into the area inside NATO's International Security Assistance Force headquarters in Kabul known as Destille Gardens. A collection of one-story buildings with a courtyard and patio, it is the only thing at headquarters that resembles a lounge or a recreation area. Soldiers and Marines -- most of them staff officers -- would gather there for coffee and even, if they were European, a glass of beer or wine. It's a world away from Helmand Province. 
 McChrystal was coming for a haircut, and as he walked through the courtyard, he passed a table of coalition officers chatting and drinking. According to several officers present, his face showed immediate disapproval, but no one noticed and he kept on going. Twenty minutes later, when McChrystal walked back across the courtyard, his hair freshly trimmed, the officers were still at their table. Some of them had dozed off. The general's mouth tightened. He walked over to their table. 
 He woke one officer and said: ''Good afternoon, I'm Stan McChrystal. Is there a problem with your office space?''
 He turned and walked off. Six weeks later, McChrystal issued an order banning alcohol from I.S.A.F. headquarters.
 Yet for all his asceticism, McChrystal displays a subtlety that suggests a wider view of the world. ''If you were to go into his house, he has this unreal library,'' Maj. Gen. Michael Flynn, McChrystal's intelligence chief and longtime friend, told me this summer. ''You can go over and touch a binding and ask him, 'What's that one about?' And he'll just start. His bad habit is wandering around old bookstores. He's not one of these guys that just reads military books. He reads about weird things too. He's reading a book about Shakespeare right now.''
 Also on his recent reading list this past summer: ''Vietnam: A History,'' Stanley Karnow's unsparing account of America's defeat. 
 When McChrystal decided to come to Afghanistan, a lot of people signed up to come with him. ''I first worked for him in the gulf war, and General McChrystal was the sharpest, fastest staff officer I have ever come across -- and I had been serving for 20 years at that point,'' said Graeme Lamb, a retired British general and former commander of the Special Air Service, Britain's equivalent of Delta Force. ''He could take ideas, concepts, directions, and he could turn them into language, into understanding, and pass it out at an electric rate.''
 Lamb was getting ready to retire earlier this year when McChrystal asked him to join his team. Lamb flew to Washington to talk it over, and the two men sealed the deal at a Mexican restaurant in Arlington, Va. ''I don't think there is a Brit that could have made the same call,'' Lamb told me. 
 One big question hovering over McChrystal is whether his experience in Iraq truly prepares him for the multiheaded challenge that faces him now. For nearly five years, McChrystal served as chief of the Joint Special Operations Command, which oversees the military's commando units, including the Army Delta Force and the Navy Seals. (Until recently, the Pentagon refused to acknowledge that the command even existed.) 
 As JSOC's commander, McChrystal spent no time trying to win over the Iraqis or training Iraqi forces or building the governing capacity of the Iraqi state. In Iraq (and, for about a third of his time, in Afghanistan), McChrystal's job, and that of the men under his command, was, almost exclusively, to kill and capture insurgents and terrorists. 
 The rescue of Iraq from the cataclysm that it had become by 2006 is an epic tale of grit and blood and luck. By February of that year, Iraq had descended into a full-blown civil war, with a thousand civilians dying every month. Its central actors were the gunmen of Al Qaeda, who, with their suicide bombers, carried out large-scale massacres of Shiite civilians; and the Shiite militias, some of them in Iraqi uniforms, who retaliated by massacring thousands of young Sunni men. 
 Breaking the cycle of attack and revenge was crucial to stopping the civil war, and it was here, McChrystal and his colleagues say, that JSOC played a critical role. In a series of operations that climaxed in 2006 and 2007, McChrystal's commandos set out to destroy Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia.
 ''The aim was to go after the middle of their network -- in a regular army, their senior noncommissioned officers. We tried to cause the network to collapse,'' McChrystal told me. ''We took it to an art form. It really became a machine.'' 
 McChrystal said that as early as the fall of 2006 -- when Al Qaeda was at its murderous peak -- it looked like the group was coming apart. ''We sensed that Al Qaeda was going to implode,'' he said. ''We could just feel it. We were watching it and feeling it and seeing it.'' In addition to driving the civil war, Al Qaeda gunmen were seen as a main obstacle to Iraq's Sunnis' reconciling with the Americans and the Iraqi government. By degrading Al Qaeda, McChrystal and others say, they helped significantly reduce the civil war, and by so doing created a space that allowed a broader movement of reconciliation -- the Sunni Awakening -- to succeed.
 ''What General McChrystal was doing with the forces he had under command in Iraq was absolutely essential to setting the conditions that allowed the Awakening to move forward,'' Lamb, the former S.A.S. head, told me. 
 The most significant moment in McChrystal's tenure was on June 6, 2006, when a crucial piece of information came across one of JSOC's video screens. For months, according to sources involved in the operation (though not McChrystal), McChrystal and his commandos had been hunting Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian head of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. Zarqawi, of course, was the man responsible for the murder of many hundreds of innocents in car bombings and suicide attacks. McChrystal was so desperate that he created a separate task force to get him. The task force narrowly missed Zarqawi several times; a few months before the June sighting, the operator of a Predator drone, a pilotless airplane, had spotted Zarqawi in a taxicab in Anbar Province. He lost him -- and Zarqawi jumped out -- when the operator changed the focus on the Predator's camera lens. 
 This time, McChrystal believed, Zarqawi was in his sights. The tip was long in coming, a result of thousands of hours of intelligence work, but according to several sources, it boiled down to this: Under interrogation, an Iraqi insurgent who was a member of Zarqawi's inner circle pointed to an Iraqi named Abd al-Rahman, who, the insurgent said, served as Zarqawi's spiritual adviser. Whenever Rahman was preparing to meet Zarqawi, the source told the Americans, he would send his wife and family out of Baghdad the day before.
 McChrystal and his JSOC team watched Rahman for 17 consecutive days. Then, on June 6, 2006, it happened -- Rahman's family was seen piling into a vehicle and leaving the city. The next day, a Predator drone followed Rahman himself as he made his way northeast out of Baghdad, to a small house in a palm grove near the village of Hibhib. Rahman went inside. McChrystal had a commando team on the ground, 18 minutes away. 
 As McChrystal and his staff watched through the Predator camera, a man, dressed in black, walked from the house to the edge of the road. The man looked to his right, then to his left. It was Zarqawi. He walked back inside. They were sure it was him. 
 At an operations center, a senior Special Forces commander, realizing that time was short, ordered an airstrike. Two F-16's were dispatched; one of them was hooked up to a refueling plane; the second jet was told to go alone. A pair of 500-pound bombs killed Zarqawi. McChrystal and his staff were waiting at JSOC's headquarters in Balad when the corpse came in. 
 McChrystal's tenure as JSOC's commander was not flawless. JSOC never got its most wanted quarry, neither Osama bin Laden nor Ayman al-Zawahiri. One of JSOC's units, Task Force 6-26, was cited for abusing detainees, many of them at a site known as Camp Nama, in Baghdad. McChrystal himself was not implicated, but at least 34 task-force members were disciplined. ''There were cases where people made mistakes, and they were punished,'' McChrystal told me. ''What we did was establish a policy and atmosphere that said that is not what you do. That is not acceptable.'' 
 He also signed off on the Silver Star recommendation for Cpl. Pat Tillman, the N.F.L. star and Army Ranger killed in Afghanistan in April 2004. The medal recommendation erroneously suggested that Tillman was killed by enemy fire; in fact he was killed accidentally by his own men, which McChrystal suspected at the time. The medal was awarded at a memorial service for Tillman, in which he was lionized as a man killed by the enemy. 
 McChrystal said he did indeed sign off on the recommendation for Tillman, because he believed it was warranted. The award was for valor, and Tillman had been extraordinarily brave, regardless of who killed him. McChrystal said he never intended for Tillman's death to be exploited politically or to convey an incorrect impression about his death. ''I certainly regret the way this came out,'' McChrystal told me.
 As for his current job, McChrystal said there are two lessons from Iraq that apply to Afghanistan. The first is that his role -- killing insurgents -- worked there only because it was part of a much larger effort to not only defeat the insurgency but also to build an Iraqi state that could stand on its own. ''Ours was just a supporting effort,'' he said. The second lesson is perhaps more startling. It is that no situation, no matter how dire, is ever irredeemable -- if you have the time, resources and the correct strategy. In the spring of 2006, Iraq seemed lost. The dead were piling up. The society was disintegrating. One possible conclusion was that it was time for the United States to cut its losses in a country that it never truly understood. But the American military believed it had found a strategy that worked, and it hung in there, and it finally turned the tide. 
 ''One of the big take-aways from Iraq was that you have to not lose confidence in what you are doing,'' McChrystal said. ''We were able to go to the edge of the abyss without losing hope.'' 
 VI.
 SHORTLY AFTER HIS ARRIVAL in Afghanistan in June 2009, McChrystal sat down with the commanders of the 82nd Airborne Division, which oversees a broad swath of eastern Afghanistan. The briefing, given by the 82nd's officers, was sophisticated but sobering: corruption in the Afghan government is pervasive, the officers said; the insurgency, supported from Pakistan, is resilient. Every valley and every village is different, each its own patchwork of ethnic groups and tribes, each with its own history. The Americans are having to learn them all. 
 ''The environment is so complex that there is no overarching solution,'' Brig. Gen. William Fuller told McChrystal. 
 When the briefing was finished, McChrystal looked around the room. ''Gentlemen, I am coming into this job with 12 months to show demonstrable progress here -- and 24 months to have a decisive impact,'' he said. ''That's how long we have to convince the Taliban, the Afghan people and the American people that we're going to be successful. In 24 months, it has to be obvious that we have the clear upper hand and that things are moving in the right direction. That's not a choice. That's a reality.'' 
 In a tour of bases around Afghanistan, McChrystal repeated this mantra to all his field commanders: Time is running out. 
 Yet even if McChrystal's plan succeeds, even if he can turn the Afghan venture around, neither he nor anyone else in the upper echelons of the military believes that the job -- the one President Obama has given them to do -- will be finished then. 
 ''It feels like Iraq in 2004,'' said Michael Flynn, McChrystal's deputy. ''Part of it is that the insurgency is stronger -- we didn't realize how strong it was. What we are trying to do is make sure everyone understands what it is we are facing -- a much stronger insurgency, certainly much more capable. Their capacity to lay I.E.D.'s on the battlefield, for instance -- it's just stunning.''
 I asked General Flynn to imagine the future here. ''We are going to go in and ask for some resources,'' he told me. ''If those resources are brought to bear in a timely manner, I believe that it's probably going to take us three years to really turn the insurgency to the point where it's waning instead of waxing. To do that we have to fix the Afghan security forces, we have to build their capacity and capability, and we have to absolutely culturally change the way they operate. And then I think beyond those three years, we are looking at another two years when the government of Afghanistan and the security forces of Afghanistan begin to take a lot more personal responsibility. The challenge to us is: What can we do in 12 months? What should we expect? If people's expectations are that we are going to have the south turned around, for instance, it's not going to happen.''
 The strategy that McChrystal, Flynn and the other senior commanders want to employ in Afghanistan has two main prongs: one hard, one soft. 
 In the military arena, McChrystal wants to put as many of his men as close to the Afghan people as he can. That means closing some of the smaller bases in remote valleys and opening them in densely populated areas like the Helmand River valley. Here, at least, military force will play a central role, at least in the early phase of his strategy, as the Americans fight their way into areas they have not been in before. 
 ''The insurgency has to have access to the people,'' McChrystal told me. ''So we literally want to go in there and squat among the people. We want to make the insurgents come to us. Make them be the aggressors. What I want to do is get on the inside, looking out -- instead of being on the outside looking in.'' 
 ''There will be a lot of fighting,'' McChrystal added. ''If we do this right, the insurgents will have to fight us. They will have no choice.''
 And that's the rub: the population-focused strategy requires more troops -- as many as 40,000 more. This is the decision that confronts President Obama and his advisers now. 
 The other part of the military option is one with which McChrystal is familiar but does not completely control. It's his old portfolio -- killing and capturing insurgents and terrorists. Much of that is being carried out in Pakistan, where Al Qaeda's leadership has gathered in havens just across the border from Afghanistan. Both bin Laden and Zawahiri are believed to be hiding there.
 In Pakistan, a C.I.A.-led program using Predator drones to hunt down and kill leaders of Al Qaeda and the Taliban has proved remarkably successful, even if controversial inside Pakistan itself. To date, American officials say, they have killed 11 of the top 20 Al Qaeda leaders, without having to launch large-scale military operations across the border. 
 With its 180 million people, several dozen nuclear warheads and havens for Al Qaeda and the Taliban, Pakistan is one wild card in McChrystal's campaign. ''If we are good here, it will have a good effect on Pakistan,'' he told me. ''But if we fail here, Pakistan will not be able to solve their problems -- it would be like burning leaves on a windy day next door. And if Pakistan implodes, it will be very hard for us to succeed.'' 
 The softer side of McChrystal's strategy has two main thrusts: training Afghan soldiers and police and persuading insurgents to change sides. It is here where the best chances of long-term success in Afghanistan may lie. 
 The first of these is a vast, expensive and painstaking project. In the ninth year of the war, Afghan forces are neither large nor able enough to take over for NATO. The Afghan Army has about 85,000 soldiers, and the police force has about 80,000 men. McChrystal wants to boost the size of the army to about 240,000 and the police to 160,000. ''I think we can do it,'' he told me. 
 But experience suggests that it won't be easy. In Iraq, the building of the security forces was fraught with disaster: in 2004 and 2005, Iraqi soldiers and the police disintegrated whenever they came under attack. In later years, Iraqi forces became more sectarian, with some Shiite-dominated units carrying out massacres of Sunni civilians. It was only much later -- by early 2008 -- that the Iraqi Army and the police began to show promise. 
 And Iraq was an urban and literate society. Afghanistan is neither. The Afghan police are widely seen as corrupt and complicit in the opium trade -- the world's largest. And while many Afghan soldiers have shown themselves willing to fight, it usually falls to the Americans and their NATO allies to pay them, feed them and support them in the field. 
 Earlier this year, Maj. Gen. Richard Formica, who oversees the training of the Afghan security forces, spoke to me about the difficulties of creating an army in a country where only one in four adults is literate. ''What percentage of police recruits can read?'' Formica asked when we met at his headquarters in Kabul. ''When I was down in Helmand, where the Brits were training police officers, they said not only could none of them read but they didn't understand what a classroom was. How can you train officers if they can't write arrest reports?'' 
 Perhaps McChrystal's most intriguing idea is his belief that he can persuade large numbers of Taliban to change sides. Coaxing insurgents back into the fold was, after all, one key to pulling Iraq back from the brink of apocalypse. Beginning in late 2006, tens of thousands of Sunni tribesmen, many of them former insurgents, agreed to stop fighting and to come onto the payroll, usually as policemen. Almost overnight, the Iraqi insurgency was reduced to Al Qaeda fanatics and a handful of others who could be targeted by McChrystal's commandos in JSOC. This shaky -- very shaky -- arrangement is still keeping what peace there is in Iraq today. 
 McChrystal says he intends to begin a similar effort in Afghanistan. The idea, he said, would not be to try to flip the Taliban's leaders -- that's not likely -- but rather its foot soldiers. The premise of the program, McChrystal says, is that most of the Taliban's fighters are not especially committed ideologically and could be brought into society with promises of jobs and protection. ''I'd like to go pretty high up,'' McChrystal said, referring to the Taliban's hierarchy. ''It could be people who are commanders with significant numbers of troops. I think they can be given the opportunity to come in.''
 The effort, McChrystal said, is based on his own reading of the Taliban and of Pashtun culture: most of the people fighting the United States, he argued, are motivated by local and personal grievances. They want more of a voice in local governance, for instance, or they want jobs. ''Historically, the Pashtuns are very practical people,'' McChrystal told me. ''Pashtun culture adjudicates disagreements in a way that mitigates blood feuds. The Pashtun people go out of their way not to do things that cause permanent feuds. They have always been willing to change positions, change sides. I don't think much of the Taliban are ideologically driven; I think they are practically driven. I'm not sure they wouldn't flip to our side.'' 
 To help him achieve this, McChrystal recruited his old friend Graeme Lamb, who played a similar role in Iraq. The trick in Iraq, Lamb said, was timing: by late 2006, many Iraqis, even the insurgents, had grown tired of fighting. ''What we did in Iraq in mid-2006 -- had we tried to do it in mid-2004, it would have crashed and burned,'' Lamb told me. ''Because at the end of the day, people hadn't exercised their revenge. They hadn't stood at the edge of the abyss and looked into it.'' 
 Lamb said the time may have arrived for something similar in Afghanistan, if only because everyone is exhausted by so much war. ''Now is a good time,'' he said, ''because people are very serious on all sides.'' 
 The reconciliation plan might end up bringing into the fold some disreputable characters, but neither Lamb nor McChrystal has much of a problem with that. ''In my view,'' McChrystal said of the insurgents, ''their past is not important. Some people say, 'Well, they have blood on their hands.' I'd say, 'So do a lot of people.' I think we focus on future behavior. They can enter the political process if they want to.''
 The notion that large groups of Taliban fighters could be persuaded to quit is not new. Previous efforts have ended in failure, often because neither the Americans nor their allies were able to protect people who changed sides. 
 Earlier this year, for example, a local Taliban commander in Wardak Province named Abdul Jameel came forward with a group of fighters and declared that he wanted to quit. Wardak's governor, Halim Fidai, accepted his surrender and told him he was free to go home. Two weeks later, Taliban gunmen entered Jameel's home and killed him, his wife, his uncle, his brother and his daughter.
 ''We had nothing to offer him,'' Fidai told me. 
 In another case, Gulab Mangal, the governor of Helmand Province, told me that during a recent American military operation he got a telephone call from a Taliban commander. ''He wanted to surrender,'' Mangal said. And then the military operation was over -- and the American troops went back to their bases. ''He never called back after that,'' Mangal said. 
 With more American troops, McChrystal told me, he would be better able to squeeze the insurgents into changing sides. ''I think a lot of them need to be convinced that they are not going to be successful,'' he said. 
 So many things could scuttle McChrystal's plans: a Taliban more intractable than imagined, the fractured nature of Afghan society and, no matter what President Obama does, a lack of soldiers and time. But there is something even worse, over which neither McChrystal nor his civilian comrades in the American government exercise much control: the government of Hamid Karzai, already among the most corrupt in the world, appears to have secured its large victory in nationwide elections in August by orchestrating the stealing of votes. A United Nations-backed group is trying to sort through the fraud allegations, and American diplomats are trying to broker some sort of power-sharing agreement with Karzai and his main rival, Abdullah Abdullah. 
 But increasingly, McChrystal, as well as President Obama and the American people, are being forced to confront the possibility that they will be stuck fighting and dying and paying for a government that is widely viewed as illegitimate. 
 When I asked McChrystal about this, it was the one issue that he seemed not to have thought through. What if the Afghan people see their own government as illegitimate? How would you fight for something like that?
 ''Then we are going to have to avoid looking like we are part of the illegitimacy,'' the general said. ''That is the key thing.''
 VII.
 A GROUP OF American Marines were bumping along a sandy road in their Humvee as the twilight turned to dark.
 ''One guy lost his legs,'' Sgt. David Spaulding said, riding in the front passenger's seat. ''They were walking in a field.'' 
 The Humvee bounced along some more. 
 ''You know the guy who got shot in the head?'' Lance Cpl. Jeremy Dones said, from a seat in the back. ''They got him to Germany. His parents flew to Germany. They took him off life support.'' 
 A moment passed. 
 ''Apparently a guy got blown to pieces, and they can't find all of him,'' Spaulding said. ''They don't know if they have all the pieces.'' 
 The men rode together in silence.
 McChrystal's plans come to earth along the banks of the Helmand River, where members of the 2/8 Battalion are trying to retake a 20-mile stretch of orchards and villages around the city of Garmsir. The 2/8 Battalion, about 800 men, is part of the 10,000 Marines dispatched to Helmand by President Obama earlier this year. 
 Since arriving in early July, the 2/8 has lost 13 men, most to homemade bombs. About five times that number have been wounded. The Marines here fight nearly every day. 
 Yet for all their difficulties, the battalion's progress has been real. Garmsir, a district of about 90,000 people, boasts a functioning government with a governor and a local council. About 300 Afghan soldiers are deployed here, led by an Afghan colonel educated at the United States Army's school for its best junior officers. About 250 Afghan police officers are stationed at bridges and checkpoints. An array of public-works projects is under way. 
 Most important, the town of Garmsir and the villages around it are quiet. They are part of an area, roughly six miles wide and six miles long, that has been secured by the Marines along the east bank of the Helmand. They call the area ''the snake's head'' for its oblong shape. Outside of Garmsir, the Taliban roam and attack. Inside, life for local Afghans is remarkably sane. 
 Garmsir is a devastated and impoverished place; 30 years of war has seen to that. None of its roads are paved, leaving the farmers unable to sell their grapes and corn in markets outside of town. There are no cellphones, no electricity, no running water. Building a city here that could function on its own would take many years. But in Garmsir's calm, the first hints of normal life are beginning to show. 
 One day in August, I tagged along with a group of Marines to the monthly meeting of Garmsir's district council. Our leader was Capt. Micah Caskey, a civil-affairs officer from Irmo, S.C. At 28, Caskey had already done two tours in the hardest years of the Iraq war. In 2007, he left the Marines to begin a dual graduate degree in law and business at the University of South Carolina. He spent the summer of 2008 studying law abroad. But he stayed in the Marine Reserve, and a few months ago they called him back. 
 ''I had a job all lined up for the summer,'' Caskey said. ''And now I'm here for seven months. I can't tell you it was easy. Sometimes it really makes me wonder.'' 
 Garmsir's governor, Abdullah Jan, arrived ahead of the meeting, and he and Caskey and a group of Marines sat in the courtyard of the district headquarters in a circle of plastic chairs. Governor Jan is the beneficiary of Afghanistan's strangely centralized political system; he was appointed by Helmand's governor, Mangal, who was directly appointed by Karzai. 
 Caskey's experience in Iraq shows immediately. He is unfailingly polite, even deferential, to Jan. And each time one of the councilmen enters, he stops the conversation and rises to shake his hand. 
 ''Peace be upon you,'' Caskey said to Jan. ''It's very nice to see you after so long.'' 
 Jan, who grew up in the district, told Caskey not to worry about local support for the Taliban -- there wasn't any. But in the absence of a stable government, and with no guarantee of safety, ordinary Afghans were often forced to go along. ''I can assure you that the people of Garmsir appreciate what you are doing here,'' Jan said. ''Unfortunately the people are held hostage by the Taliban.''
 An Afghan -- one of Jan's assistants -- arrived bearing a tray of tea and cakes while Jan talked. 
 ''Ninety percent of the local people support the government,'' Jan told Caskey. ''Maybe 10 percent really like the Taliban.'' 
 That seemed an overstatement; there were too many roadside bombs in the area -- even inside the snake's head. But the point Jan was making seemed valid enough: once there is law and order, public opinion begins to change. 
 ''You guys,'' Jan said, looking at Caskey and the other Americans, ''you come in, you help and then you leave. The Afghan people are not 100 percent sure that you are going to stay. They are not sure they won't have their throats cut if they tell the Americans where a bomb is.''
 The council's meeting began with its 16 members taking their seats on the floor of a large, airy room. Caskey and the other Americans sat in the back. The agenda for the meeting was to decide on a list of development projects, which the Americans would pay for. As Caskey explained, the Americans didn't want to direct the projects -- they wanted to strengthen the Afghan leaders by funneling the money through them. 
 ''The Americans are only going to pay for projects that we decide on,'' Jan announced. ''It's up to us.'' 
 The Afghans -- all men -- began to talk. Their first choice was unanimous: the main sluice gates that lead to the irrigation canals off the Helmand River, built by American aid workers in the 1950s, were badly in need of repair. Some of the fields were going dry.
 ''It's been 30 years since anyone did any work on that canal,'' Hajji Anwar, one of the councilmen, said. 
 With the meeting under way, Caskey and the other Americans got up to leave. ''I have one request,'' Caskey said to one mullah. ''Would you be willing to record a message that we can play over the radio station saying that fighting the government violates the idea of jihad -- that it's not jihad?''
 Jan thought for a second and nodded. Caskey and the other Marines strapped on their helmets. 
 ''May you have a son just like yourself,'' Jan told him. 
 VIII.
 THE ABANDONED ELEMENTARY school in Mian Poshteh that houses the 240 Marines of 2/8's Echo Company has no bedrooms, no beds, no electricity, no water. It's a vacant, dirty building filled with tired and dirty men. They sleep on the floor, a dozen to a room, or they sleep in the dirt outside, shirtless in the heat. They fight every day. When the Marines don't attack the Taliban, the Taliban attack the Marines. 
 No Americans have ever come this far south before, at least not permanently. With fewer than 8,000 British troops covering all of Helmand, there never were enough to go around. Garmsir is 12 miles up a single dusty road, where Echo Company's supply convoys get bombed nearly every day. 
 Mian Poshteh is like Garmsir but worse. There is no government: no mayor, no city council, no police. Thirty Afghan soldiers live here, only 10 of whom leave the base at any given time. As in Garmsir, the Marines in Mian Poshteh have come to build a government -- but they have to defeat the Taliban first.
 ''We're not going to clear anything that we can't hold onto,'' said Capt. Eric Meador, Echo Company's commander. 
 Even with 240 men, they can't hold onto much. By the time Echo Company and the rest of the 2/8 leave at the end of October, Meador said, he would like to control a perimeter that extends perhaps a mile and a half around his fort. ''I'd be doing pretty well,'' he said. To the south, there isn't another Marine base for miles.
 When you see a place like Mian Poshteh -- wild, broken and isolated -- it's not difficult to see why McChrystal believes he doesn't have enough troops to do what President Obama has asked him to.
 One of Echo Company's typical days unfolded in late August, when the Marines set out on foot for a village named Tarakai. Led by a young lieutenant, Patrick Nevins, 24, from Chapel Hill, N.C., Echo Company's First Platoon walked through a vast field of shoulder-high corn. The fields had been flooded recently, so they were filled with muck. The trek might have been easier had the Marines taken the farmers' raised footpaths, but the Taliban had taken to laying land mines in those, so the Marines waded straight into the field itself. The mud below was crisscrossed by gullies and rows of broken ground. The helmets of the Marines bobbed above the top of the corn. 
 The fields, deep and green, were eerily empty of other men. 
 ''I guess all the farmers took the day off,'' Nevins said, hacking his way through the corn.
 Helmand's summers are long and merciless, and on this day the temperature hovered around 120 degrees. Crossing the fields, with all the muck, it was hotter still. Nevins and his men tromped through the corn in full gear, including helmets and flak jackets. In the heat, my own boots fell apart. 
 As he walked, Nevins talked a little about himself. He seemed an unlikely presence in the fields of Helmand. His father is a cancer researcher at Duke University. ''My dad is really good at what he does,'' Nevins said, hacking and pushing his way through the mud and corn. ''I guess I didn't want to compete with him.''
 An hour later, Nevins's platoon popped out on the other side. Behind them were trails of toppled corn. ''Sorry about your field,'' Nevins said to an Afghan man standing nearby. 
 ''It's O.K.,'' he said. 
 We arrived at Tarakai. A group of Afghans lined up. They were talking about the Afghan presidential election, to be held only a few days later. 
 ''We can't vote,'' said Hakmatullah, who, like many Afghans, has only one name. ''Everybody knows it. We are farmers, and we cannot do a thing against the Taliban.''
 The others said much the same. The Taliban had passed word that they would cut off the right index finger of anyone caught casting a ballot. Not that there was much chance of that: the area around Mian Poshteh was so anarchic that the Afghan government didn't send anyone to register voters. The closest polling place was in Garmsir. 
 But there was more to talk about. ''The children are frightened,'' one of the men said. 
 And so were the adults. The Taliban owned Tarakai; they taxed the corn and kept watch over the town. 
 ''When you leave here, the Taliban will come at night and ask us why we were talking to you,'' a villager told Nevins. ''If we cooperate, they would kill us.''
 ''They will cut out our stomachs,'' another man said. 
 ''Is there anything I can do for you?'' Nevins asked. 
 ''Don't come close to our houses,'' the first villager said. ''Don't try to negotiate with us.'' 
 Nevins was polite but insistent. The Americans were here now, and they were going to stay. ''I will try to be respectful, and I will try to keep my distance,'' Nevins told the men. ''But I have a job to do, and I need to be able to come by from time to time.'' 
 An old man with a long white beard stepped forward. ''We're afraid you're going to leave this place after a few months,'' the old man said. ''And the Taliban will take their revenge.'' 
 ''I promise you,'' Lieutenant Nevins said, ''we will be here when the weather gets cold, and when it gets hot again.'' 
 Nevins shook hands with the Afghans and said goodbye. Then he turned, and his men disappeared into the cornfield. 
 IX.
 IN AMERICA, the chorus is insistent and growing: scale back the Afghan mission. It's too hard and too expensive, and we've overstayed our welcome. 
 George F. Will, the columnist, recently said as much. So did Rory Stewart, the British scholar-diplomat who has spent years in the region. Vice President Biden is said to favor such a choice. 
 The exact shape of a scaled-down commitment is not clear, but it goes something like this: American Special Forces units, aided by Predator drones, can keep Al Qaeda off-balance, while American soldiers stay on to train the Afghan Army and the police. 
 It's an attractive argument, of course: it offers the hope that the United States can achieve the same thing -- American security -- at a much-reduced cost. (The fate of the Afghan people themselves is basically left out of this equation.)
 Last month, I visited Richard Haass, one of the idea's chief proponents, at his office in New York, where he is president of the Council on Foreign Relations. (Before that, through June 2003, Haass was director of policy planning at the State Department under President George W. Bush.) 
 Haass is particularly persuasive, in part because he does not pretend to have easy answers. After eight years of mismanagement and neglect, Haass says, every choice the United States faces in Afghanistan is dreadful. The weight of the evidence, he says, suggests that curtailing our ambitions is the option least dreadful.
 ''It's not self-evident that doing more will accomplish more,'' Haass told me. ''And I'm skeptical about how central Afghanistan is anymore to the global effort against terror. I'm not persuaded that you can transform the situation there.''
 The bulk of Al Qaeda's leadership, Haass pointed out, is now in Pakistan. That's where the United States should really be focused -- in Pakistan, with a population six times larger than Afghanistan's and with at least 60 nuclear warheads. ''No one wants Afghanistan to become a sponge that absorbs a disproportionate share of our country's resources,'' he said. 
 General McChrystal and most of the rest of the Pentagon say that Haass's argument is essentially an illusion. If the United States drew down substantially in Afghanistan, they say, much of the country would quickly be overrun by the Taliban, rendering the other things -- training and counterterrorism -- impossible. Al Qaeda would return, possibly to the place it had before the 9/11 attacks, and Pakistan would be likely to follow. 
 When I pitched McChrystal's counterargument to Haass, he said he was glad that he wasn't in Obama's shoes. ''Let's not kid ourselves,'' he said. ''We're not going to find some wonderful thing that's going to deliver large positive results at modest costs. It's not going to happen.''
 Haass went on to say: ''I keep going back to Yogi Berra. You know: 'When you reach a fork in the road, take it.' I bet there are days when Obama wakes up and sees the fork in the road and decides he's not going to take it. Because both choices are so bad.''
 X.
 DURING HIS TRIP to Garmsir, Stanley McChrystal took a moment to meet with Abdullah Jan, the governor. The two sat down in the same council chambers where Jan had met with Captain Caskey.
 ''Tell me how we can do better,'' McChrystal said. 
 Jan thought for a second, then offered an unusual answer. 
 ''You need to live in a building, not a bunch of tents,'' he said. 
 McChrystal gave him a quizzical look. 
 ''Everyone in Garmsir sees that you are living in tents, and they know that you are going to be leaving soon,'' Jan told McChrystal. ''You need to build something permanent -- a building. Because your job here is going to take years. Only then will people be persuaded that you are going to stay.'' 
 McChrystal nodded. 
 ''We'll stay as long as we have to until our Afghan partners are completely secure,'' he said. ''Even if that means years.''
 McChrystal started to get up, but Jan wasn't finished yet. 
 ''The Afghan people are impatient,'' he said. ''We've been waiting for 30 years! We don't want to wait any longer. We're impatient!''
 McChrystal held back a smile.
 ''Believe me,'' he told Jan. ''I work for a lot of impatient people, too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLOTTING THE COURSE: General McChrystal meets with U.S. and Afghan commanders at Forward Operating Base Delhi in Helmand Province.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER VAN AGTMAEL)(pg. MM36)
A DAILY BATTLE: Members of the 2/8 Battalion in Garmsir. Inside the town, life is fairly normal. Outside, the Taliban are a constant threat.(pg. MM39)
A PERILOUS WALK: Marines on patrol en route to Mian Poshteh. Minutes later, a bomb that was buried in the road exploded.(pg. MM40)
HIDDEN ENEMY, HIDDEN BOMBS: Had the bomber waited another few seconds, the patrol would have been right on top of the explosive. Instead, nobody was seriously injured.(pg. MM42)
 CLOSE QUARTERS: After a firefight with Taliban fighters, Marines gather in the shelter of Combat Outpost Sharp.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER VAN AGTMAEL/MAGNUM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM46) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (89%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); POLICE FORCES (55%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



529 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Heading South for Hot Deals

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
LOOKING for a bargain vacation to tide you over until the holidays? Better act fast. 
 While the travel industry is still hurting from the fallout, airlines, rental car companies and hotels have all been tweaking their businesses to ride out the downturn and push rates back up. And some of the efforts are working. Bookings have begun to pick up in cities like New York and Chicago as business travel has begun to stir. That's putting a damper on the deals that travelers have grown to expect. Meanwhile, the high season is approaching for cold-weather getaways like Hawaii and the Caribbean, which are hoping to make up for the revenue lost in the off-season months. 
 ''Demand seems to be bottoming out a bit,'' in certain cities said Clem Bason, president of Hotwire.com, a discount travel site that helps travel companies fill airline seats, hotel rooms and rental cars that would otherwise go unsold. Even Las Vegas, the travel poster child of the recession with rooms sitting empty in the desert, recently dropped off Hotwire's top-10 list of North American cities with the deepest hotel price cuts, after lingering in the top five for nearly a year. (In the top five now are Minneapolis; Jacksonville, Fla.; Vancouver, British Columbia; Orlando, Fla.; and Portland, Ore. But there are still plenty of deals out there, and prices are still lower overall. In fact, Expedia recently reported that air and hotel package prices for major destinations this fall have declined 29 percent compared with last season. And even with the latest round of capacity cuts, airlines continue to roll out aggressive sales. The average flier this fall is going to save about 10 percent compared with last year, said Joe Grus, the so-called fareologist at Bing Travel, the new Microsoft search engine that predicts airfare prices. Here is a roundup of some of the best bets for a cheap getaway. 
 Mexico
 If you want sunshine and a beach, there's no better value now than Mexico. And with Mexico's winter high season on the horizon, the savings seem even more worthwhile. 
 Average airfare to Mexico from the United States this fall is about $392 round trip, according to Travelocity, down 25 percent from last fall. To win back visitors scared off by reports of Mexican gang and drug violence and the H1N1 outbreak earlier this year, resorts are slashing rates to the bone, with special incentives the longer guests stay. 
 Condo Hotels Playa del Carmen, a group of condominiums near the beach, is offering 25 percent off in November with one-bedroom studios starting at $100 a night. Guests who stay seven nights receive an additional 10 percent off.
 Chain hotels, with lots of rooms to sell, are offering some of the most aggressive deals. Grupo Posadas, which owns the Fiesta and Aqua chains in Mexico, is offering up to 35 percent off nightly rates, plus 25 percent off dining and drinks. Discounted rates start at $71 a night through Dec. 23 at Fiesta Americana Cozumel Dive Resort. Marriott is offering 25 percent off rooms, as well as off food and beverages through Nov. 30 (use promotional code EMK). 
 Some of the best savings are at the most glamorous resorts. Guests who stay four nights or more at the Four Seasons Punta Mita, near Puerto Vallarta, receive a $1,234 credit applied at checkout, through Nov. 18 and from Nov. 28 to Dec. 21. That brings a $2,180 four-night vacation, based on the starting rate of $545 a night, to just $946. Velas Resorts, which runs three luxury all-inclusive properties in the Riviera Maya, Puerto Vallarta and Riviera Nayarit, has extended its Welcome Back promotion, which offers guests upgrades, through Dec. 24. Pay for a studio suite at the Velas Vallarta Suite Resort, for example, where rates start at $165 a person a night based on double occupancy, down from $420 normally, and receive an upgrade to a one- or two-bedroom suite. 
 Scottsdale, Ariz.
 Once the province of snowbirds, golfers and Western fanatics, this desert resort town has evolved into a much hipper place with buzzing night life, luxury hotels and old storefronts converted into stylish restaurants, bars and boutiques. But despite all the hype, demand shrank in the recession, exposing just how overbuilt the region had become, with some of the newer hotels like the W Scottsdale and the Mondrian falling into financial straits. (There is a financial dispute between the developer and construction contractor at the W, while the Mondrian is negotiating with its lender over an unpaid $40 million mortgage that matured in June.) Both hotels say they remain open and fully operational.
 Sprawling resorts, which were particularly hurt by the slowdown in conferences and meetings, are offering some of the deepest discounts. The Boulders Resort & Golden Door Spa, with 60 villas and 160 casitas nestled into the Sonoran Desert, has rooms from $149 a night -- more than half off high-season rates. Just outside the city limits, the 119-room Royal Palms Resort and Spa has rates from $189 a night, down from $250. And in downtown, the midcentury modern Hotel Valley Ho is offering a fourth night free through Dec. 31. 
 Florida
 Florida's heavy reliance on tourism, combined with a glut of hotel rooms added before the downturn, made it among the most susceptible places to the recession. The number of visitors to the state dropped 9.4 percent between April and June this year compared with the same period last year, according to Visit Florida, the tourism marketing corporation for the state. 
 To lure visitors back, beach resorts and amusements parks are offering all kinds of savings. The Orlando/Orange County Convention & Visitors Bureau has a Free-for-Fall promotion, which includes free admission to tourist attractions and extra hotel nights free through Dec. 15. But act fast if you see something you like. Deals of the Week, like a third night free at the Lake Buena Vista Resort Village & Spa (listed at VisitOrlando.com/FallDeals), are replaced regularly. 
 Meanwhile, Walt Disney World is offering free dining with a five-night package from now through Nov. 24 and Nov. 29 to Dec. 17. With this deal, a family of four can stay at a Disney-value resort like the Pop Century for $1,377 including two meals and two snacks per person per night -- a saving of $494.
 Looking for something at the beach? Naples Grande Beach Resort is offering rooms from $149 a night through Dec. 22, including valet parking, daily buffet breakfast for two and a free stay for children 17 and under. The Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau is also running its annual Dine Out program, in which restaurants offer three-course fixed-price menus for $35 Sundays through Thursdays. 
 And the Ritz-Carlton resorts in South Beach, Fort Lauderdale and Key Biscayne have extended their Kid's Meal Plan through March 30. For $30 to $37 a day, children 12 and under can have unlimited sodas and juice and carte blanche during breakfast and dinner. So you don't have to cringe when Junior orders the sauteed grouper every night. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Oct. 18, about deals available before the holidays in Mexico, Scottsdale, Ariz., and Florida, omitted part of the terms of a Walt Disney World offer of free dining with a five-night package from Oct. 1 through Nov. 24 and Nov. 29 to Dec. 17. The package had to be booked by Sept. 26. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BEACHES (78%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (63%)

COMPANY: GRUPO POSADAS SAB DE CV (58%); HOTWIRE INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: POSADAS (BMV) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (75%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



530 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: The Fat and Short of It

BYLINE: By DANIEL ENGBER. 
Daniel Engber is a senior editor at Slate.

 BODY:
At nearly 6 feet 2 inches and about 175 pounds, Barack Obama may be the slimmest president since the Civil War. His body-mass index hovers near 23, well within the healthy range and somewhat to the left on the bell curve of American bodies. Perhaps he has some credibility, then, when he encourages the rest of us to shed a few pounds. During the presidential campaign, Obama suggested that rolling back obesity rates would save a trillion dollars for Medicare.
 He's right that there is a connection between excess fat and public health. Obesity is associated with a higher risk of cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and other problems. If we could somehow slenderize the fattest people in America all at once, we would prevent an estimated 112,000 deaths a year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But girth shouldn't be the only dimension in the health care debate. There's at least one more bodily attribute that's eating away at the Medicare budget: shortness. 
 We've long known that stature can serve as a crude measure of public health. If everyone came from a perfect home, the average height across the population would be a function of our genes alone. (There would still be tall people and short people, but we would all have grown as much as we possibly could.) Anything less than an ideal standard of living, though, tends to stunt a child's growth. 
 Many problems associated with being overweight correspond to being ''underheight.'' The shorter you are in America, the more likely your chances to develop coronary heart disease, diabetes or stroke. Fat people and short people lead briefer lives, and they put an increased burden on the health care system. Economists estimate that excess weight alone accounts for 9 percent of the country's medical spending. There's no such figure for insufficient height, but we do know that obesity and shortness play out in similar ways across the socioeconomic landscape.
 In the labor market, the effects of height and weight tend to run in parallel. A 2004 study by John Cawley of Cornell University found that severely obese white women who weigh more than two standard deviations above average -- women who weigh, for example, more than 212 pounds if they're 5 feet 4 inches tall -- are paid up to 9 percent less for their work. Likewise, a decrease in a man's height to the 25th percentile from the 75th -- roughly to 5 feet 8 inches from 6 feet-- is associated with, on average, a dip in earnings of 6 to 10 percent. 
 And like obese people, short people are less likely to finish college than those of average weight. A paper from the July issue of the journal Economics and Human Biology used survey data from more than 450,000 adults to conclude that male college graduates are, on average, more than an inch taller than men who never finished high school.
 Moreover, just as a buildup of abdominal fat increases the risk of chronic illness, so can short stature have a direct impact on physiology. Smaller people, for example, have smaller lungs -- and reduced lung capacity is a risk factor for death from cardiovascular disease. Shorter people also have narrower coronary arteries, which may be more susceptible to atherosclerosis. 
 Whatever the cause, higher weight and lower height are associated with chronic disease, low wages and poor educational attainment. And while we are getting fatter, we may be getting shorter too. The economist John Komlos has shown that the United States is losing height relative to other developed nations, and some American demographic groups are even shrinking in absolute terms. Yet we tend to discount shortness as a mere byproduct of genetics and early-life experience, while treating the obesity epidemic as if it were a grave danger to public health. Why can't our campaign to reshape the American body have two fronts? If we really want to make our country healthier, let's have a war on shortness too.
 You're excused for scoffing. You probably think of weight as a problem we can fix, while height seems beyond our control. We could try to make people thin by taxing junk food or by raising their insurance premiums unless they go on a diet. But what kind of policy could make someone taller? 
 Controlling our country's height may be just as plausible -- or implausible -- as controlling its weight. It's true that someone who is fat can lose weight on purpose, while a short adult can't do anything to gain height. Yet instances of radical, lasting weight loss are exceedingly rare. Diet and exercise schemes tend to yield only minor effects over the long term. While lesser changes to your weight may be associated with modest health benefits, they won't help all those obese adults to become slender. For most of us, changes in body size follow a long, slow pattern across our adult lives. Every year, we lose a tiny bit of height and gain a pound or two of weight until, in our older years, we shrink in both measurements.
 Given how hard it can be to lose weight, a realistic war on obesity starts to look a lot like a war on shortness. In both cases, we're dealing with a complex function of genetics, social class and poor health in childhood. 
 Early-life experiences play an important role in the development and consequences of body size. Exposure to malnutrition, infectious disease, chronic stress and poverty stunta child's development and seem to explain many of the long-term problems associated with short stature. Environmental factors may promote obesity, too: lack of breast-feeding, bad nutrition, chronic stress and poverty have all been associated with early weight gain and a higher risk of health problems down the road.
 A range of sensible interventions could address both problems at once. To win a war on shortness, we might promote the consumption of fruits, vegetables and other foods that are low in calories and high in micronutrients. Or we could invest in education as a means of alleviating poverty and environmental stress. Better access to doctors for children and their parents would improve prenatal and postnatal care and stave off the stunting effects of childhood disease. 
 None of these policies treat body size as an end in itself. We would never just prescribe growth hormones and bariatric surgery to every child who doesn't fit a tall, slender mold. Obesity and shortness are society-wide measurements, not reflections of individual virtue or good health. To that end, our goal should be to improve the quality of life for children. If we can manage that, they just might end up a little taller -- and thinner too. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (76%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); HEART DISEASE (74%); DIABETES (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (72%); STROKES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); CANCER (70%); MEDICARE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



531 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AFGHAN PRESIDENT PRESSED TO HONOR ELECTION AUDIT
 Western officials have been pressuring President Hamid Karzai to accept the results of a United Nations-led audit of the Aug. 20 election. If the review nullifies enough of Mr. Karzai's votes, it would trigger a second round of voting, an outcome Mr. Karzai is balking at. PAGE 14
 RESPONSE TO POLICY ON SUDAN 
 After details emerged of the Obama administration's policy toward Sudan -- one that proposes engagement -- advocates of a tougher approach expressed relief the White House did not take a more conciliatory line. PAGE 10
 RUSSIA SEES CHINA AS MODEL
 Vladimir V. Putin's party, United Russia, is examining how it can emulate the way China's ruling party mixed political control with economic growth. News analysis. PAGE 10
 REFUGEES RETURN TO BRITAIN
 Iraqi authorities allowed only nine of 50 Iraqi refugees back into the country and sent the rest back to Britain, officials said. PAGE 12
 IRAN RELEASES REPORTER
 Iran released Maziar Bahari, the Iranian-Canadian reporter for Newsweek magazine and an internationally known filmmaker, Newsweek announced. PAGE 12
 National
 OBAMA SAYS HEALTH INSURERS ARE LYING TO BLOCK REFORM
 President Obama said the insurance industry was interested only in preserving their own ''profits and bonuses.'' He also signaled he supported reviewing the industry's exemption from antitrust laws. PAGE 24 
 SCANDALS BUT NO CENSURE
 After the Jack Abramoff scandal two years ago, Congress set up new systems for dealing with ethics violations. But despite a number of recent scandals, no member of Congress has been censured. PAGE 21 
 AUDIT OF UNIVERSITY HOUSE
 Education officials in North Dakota called for an audit of a $2 million house built for the president of North Dakota State University, Joseph A. Chapman, who resigned last week. PAGE 22
 New Twist in Obama Poster Case 26
 Metropolitan
 LIFESAVING DONATIONS,
 Out of Reach
 Many people wait for transplants of cells from bone marrow or from the umbilical cord blood of a newborn. Their stories of personal struggles tell us about the hard limits of market-based medicine. Jim Dwyer, About New York. PAGE 1
 The View From a Pedicab 4 
 Sports
 TOP BILLING IS SECONDARY TO GIANTS' DEFENSIVE BACKS
 The Giants' secondary lacks the fearsome reputation of the defensive line and linebackers. That is changing. But the defensive backfield faces a tough test against the potent offense of the Saints. PAGE 1
 HOPE FOR NEGLECTED HORSES
 Six months after 177 horses were found malnourished and neglected at the New York farm of the thoroughbred breeder and owner Ernie Paragallo, 96 of the horses have been found new homes. PAGE 1
 IRISH CAN'T CATCH TROJANS
 Despite a comeback by the Irish, the University of Southern California overwhelmed Notre Dame's defense and won, 34-27. PAGE 6 
 GATORS AVOID UPSET
 Florida's perfect season was barely kept intact. A field goal in the final seconds gave the Gators a 23-20 win against visiting Arkansas. PAGE 7 
 Replay Helps Temple Defeat Army 7
 Devils Win at Home 8
 Obituaries
 DONALD KAUFMAN, 79
 He owned one of the largest and most valuable collections of antique toy cars and trucks in the world. PAGE 32
 Sunday Business
 EXCEPTIONS MAY KILL THE RULE FOR REFORMING DERIVATIVES
 The House Financial Services Committee's bill to regulate derivatives is a step in the right direction but has too many exceptions, Gretchen Morgenson writes. Fair Game. PAGE 1 
 A QUEST FOR DIGITAL PRIVACY
 Privacy advocates are raising questions about whether newly strengthened laws governing the security of electronic health records offer enough privacy protection. PAGE 4 
 NETWORKS SO BIG THEY FAIL
 Companies still rely heavily on personal connections when filling job openings. Here's the hitch: Online tools have helped swell people's ''networks'' to include almost everyone they pass on the street. Preoccupations by Jon Picoult. PAGE 8 
 Arts & Leisure 
 EARHART'S MYSTIQUE TAKES WING AGAIN
 More than seven decades after her death, Amelia Earhart is played by Hilary Swank in ''Amelia,'' directed by Mira Nair, which reverently portrays a celebrity who remained remarkably irreverent, David Carr writes. PAGE 1 
 Hockney's Long Road Home 1
 Films of '62: When Eras Collided 1
 Magazine
 THE SONG DECODERS
 By breaking music down into its component parts, Pandora Internet radio tries to figure out what kind of music you really like. PAGE 48 
 Book Review
 UNTAMED HEART
 In her new book, ''Half Broke Horses,'' Jeannette Walls recreates the life of her maternal grandmother, and tells the story in her grandmother's voice. PAGE 1 
 Sunday Styles
 DANCING WITH DEMONS
 The reality show ''Gone Too Far'' focused on a recovering addict, Adam Goldstein, better known as DJ AM. But MTV's decision to show the series after his death from a drug overdose has raised many questions. PAGE 1 
 Travel
 LEAF-PEEPING IN VERMONT: IT'S BETTER IN SLOW MOTION
 It's no secret that Vermont's autumn palette is spectacular. But experiencing it in slow motion in the company of other cyclists is a revelation for all the senses. PAGE 1
 36 HOURS IN RICHMOND
 As the heart of the old Confederacy, Richmond, Va., watched with envy as other cities became the cultural pillars of the New South. But Richmond may finally be having its big moment. PAGE 10 
 Automobiles
 BEHIND THE WHEEL: 2009 FERRARI CALIFORNIA
 The new California convertible is perhaps Ferrari's answer to the global recession. With a base price of less than $200,000, it is a relative bargain. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 11 
 Week in Review
 ONCE UPON A TIME, IN KABUL, AFGHANISTAN...
 As President Obama debates whether to deploy more troops to Afghanistan, a look back at a period when Kabul was known as the ''Paris of Central Asia.'' PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 THE PUBLIC PLAN, CONTINUED
 A public plan is the best way to give consumers more choices, inject more competition into insurance markets, and save money for the federal budget. Week in Review, PAGE 7
 A BIT OF BIPARTISANSHIP
 Senator Lindsey Graham has joined the ranks of those pushing for a bipartisan agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions. We welcome his change of heart. Week in Review, PAGE 7
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 As the Dow hits 10,000 once again, it's clear that Wall Street, not Main Street, still rules Washington. Week in Review, PAGE 8 
 MAUREEN DOWD
 A lack of consensus about the value of consensus-building. Week in Review, PAGE 9 
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 It is worth reflecting for a moment on why Germans are celebrating 11/9 and we are reliving 9/11. Week in Review, PAGE 8 
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Recent articles about high-profile crimes contained anonymous quotations. Were they fair? Week in Review, PAGE 8 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCANDALS (89%); HORSES (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); INSURANCE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (63%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (63%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



532 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Savings Bind

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein, an outside director of the Sequoia Fund, is a contributing writer for the magazine. His book, ''The End of Wall Street,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:
In his Labor Day weekend address on the American worker, President Obama, with little fanfare, announced some initiatives to help Americans save more money. One such step will allow employees to receive their tax refunds in the form of U.S. Savings Bonds instead of in cash. Another will promote automatic enrollment in retirement funds for workers at medium and small firms so that employees will have to opt out of saving, rather than opt in. Studies show that this results in more saving. 
 All these steps should add to the national savings rate. It is a goal Obama campaigned on -- and one that policy wonks and pundits have been screaming about for years. The United States is staring at frightening retirement deficits, infrastructure needs and health care liabilities. How else to meet them but to start saving and stop borrowing money? 
 Here's the funny part. The American consumer kicked the borrowing habit more than a year ago. The country, you may have noticed, is in an economic crisis, and most economists say the only way out is for consumers to start spending money. Spending is the opposite of saving. 
 Since consumer spending accounts for 71 percent of the gross domestic product, an enduring rise in personal saving would make for a weaker recovery, with fewer jobs. One main purpose of the $787 billion government stimulus was to provide a buffer until private spending revived. 
 Usually, saving recedes when recessions end. Some economists think the current financial crisis was such a shock -- on a par, psychologically, with the Great Depression -- that people will feel the need to save even after it is over. If their predictions are right, the United States would need to enact a stimulus every year to get the economy back to where it was. That is why the federal government enacted the cash-for-clunkers program; it wants people who have been accumulating savings to buy automobiles. 
 The government's mixed message may sound grossly inconsistent, but it isn't. Economists often give different answers for the short term and the long term. What is unusual is that the financial crisis has brought these divergent agendas into such sharp relief. 
 The prescription that we should save more isn't wrong. Household saving is the total of what people earn less what they spend. If you want to describe the history of the U.S. economy over the last 50 years, in shorthand, you could do worse than this: Americans saved. Then they didn't. 
 For the 35 years after World War II, Americans dutifully set aside about 9 percent of their income. Their savings were plowed into stocks and bonds and formed a pool of capital for investments and new technologies (and a couple of wars, not to mention the space program). They begat a golden era of productivity and growth and, eventually, the 1990s boom. But by then, habits were changing. Starting in the mid-1980s, the personal-savings rate declined. Credit became more available, and people became used to borrowing what they needed. (The commonplace phrase ''saving up'' -- as in ''I'm saving up for a washing machine'' -- all but disappeared.) Also, bubbles in stocks and real estate convinced people they didn't need to save much for the future, since even a small nest egg would grow into a big one. By the late 2000s, the savings rate plunged to less than 1 percent. 
 There is no denying that the spending binge of recent years was wacky. Economics used to teach that people made rational calculations about what to save (and to spend). That was part of the free-market gospel. It has become rather obvious that psychology and emotions also play a part in such decisions. The administration has embraced the profession's revisionism. Endorsing automatic-enrollment savings plans is another way of saying, ''We know you won't save as much as you should on your own.'' The credit binge basically proved that, rational or not, people will prefer to remain poor (i.e., to spend) as long as someone will lend them money. 
 That ended with the financial crisis. As households scrambled to repair their finances, the savings rate shot up to 6 percent. Recently, it has hovered around 4 percent, but many economists predict a return to the high single digits. Credit is less available. Americans owned about 425 million bank credit cards in 2008; that number has plunged to 344 million. Regulators tightened the rules on mortgages; banks are also more cautious. That won't last forever, but if capital requirements are strengthened, as is expected, banks will not be able to repeat so casually the sins of yore.
 And for now, spending psychology is working in reverse. The total wealth of households fell, peak to trough, from $64 trillion to $51 trillion -- the steepest decline in postwar history. No one is counting on rising home values to provide for retirement. People are not only poorer, they feel poorer. The wealthy expect to be socked with higher taxes to pay down deficits; middle-class Americans fear for their jobs. Neither group is in a mood to spend.
 If you ask economists which is more desirable -- saving or spending -- they tend to stammer. Understandably, it depends on the context. We wouldn't want to return to the consumer-mad economy of the 2000s, because it was unsustainable. Maybe a consumer economy is not where we should be headed at all. In the future, exports (selling products to other countries) will be more important; so will investments. But neither of these sectors can take up the slack right now. In the short run, to the extent that people don't spend, the government will.
 ''After so much lamentation about low saving, it may be a bit hard for the public to stomach economists' new worries about a drop in spending,'' Christopher Carroll, a Johns Hopkins economist wrote in June. Carroll, who has since joined the staff of the Council of Economic Advisers, likened the seeming paradox to the dilemma of St. Augustine, who after a youth spent in pleasure famously prayed, ''Lord, make me chaste -- but not quite yet.'' The government faces a trade-off on financial chastity. This will enter into all sorts of policy decisions, like when to start paying down its deficit. It is the same trade-off -- spending now or saving for later? -- that the private sector thoroughly botched. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE GRONON) GRAPHIC: $4,643: is the amount that the average American household is currently expected to save over the year.(SOURCE (TOP LEFT): MOODY'S ECONOMY.COM, 2009) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); RECESSION (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



533 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Is Joined; Now What?

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
The Obama administration, which would seem to have its hands full with a two-front war in Iraq and Afghanistan, opened up a third front last week, this time with Fox News.
 Until this point, the conflict had been mostly a one-sided affair, with Fox News hosts promoting tax day ''tea parties'' that focused protest on the new president, and more recently bringing down the presidential adviser Van Jones through rugged coverage that caught the administration, and other news organizations, off guard. During the health care debate, Fox News has put a megaphone to opponents, some of whom have advanced far-fetched theories about the impact of reform. And even farther out on the edge, the network's most visible star of the moment, Glenn Beck, has said the president has ''a deep-seated hatred for white people.''
 Administration officials seemed to have decided that they had had enough. 
 ''We're going to treat them the way we would treat an opponent,'' Anita Dunn, the White House communications director, said in an interview with The New York Times. ''As they are undertaking a war against Barack Obama and the White House, we don't need to pretend that this is the way that legitimate news organizations behave.''
 Ah, but pretending has traditionally been a valuable part of the presidential playbook. Smiling and wearing beige even under the most withering news media assault is not only good manners, but also has generally been good politics. While there is undoubtedly a visceral thrill in finally setting out after your antagonists, the history of administrations that have successfully taken on the media and won is shorter than this sentence.
 Not that they haven't tried. In his second Inaugural Address, Ulysses S. Grant said he had ''been the subject of abuse and slander scarcely ever equaled in political history.'' President William McKinley labeled a gathering of the press a ''congress of inventors,'' and President Franklin D. Roosevelt assigned less favored press members to his ''Dunce Club.'' Sometimes the strategy worked -- or caused no lasting damage. McKinley, like Grant, was elected to a second term. Roosevelt also won a third and fourth.
 As Americans turned to TV for news, enmity from presidents soon followed. Vice President Spiro T. Agnew said ''self-appointed analysts'' at the Big Three networks exhibited undisguised ''hostility'' toward President Richard M. Nixon, subjecting his speeches to ''instant analysis and querulous criticism.'' Later, in the dispute with The Times over the Pentagon Papers, Mr. Nixon's national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, accused the newspaper of treason.
 Neither of the Bush presidents had a particularly cozy relationship with the press. George H.W. Bush finished the campaign in 1992 with a bumper sticker that suggested, ''Annoy the Media. Vote Bush.'' And George W. Bush, in the words of ABC's Mark Halperin, viewed ''the media as a special interest rather than as guardians of the public interest.'' Bill Clinton, too, distrusted the press, as did others in his administration. When Vincent Foster, Mr. Clinton's deputy White House counsel, committed suicide in 1993, he left behind a note accusing the Wall Street Journal's editorial page of lying. 
 Even though almost all the critiques contained a kernel of truth, in each instance the folks who had the barrels of ink, and now pixels, seemed to come out ahead. So far, the only winner in this latest dispute seems to be Fox News. Ratings are up 20 percent this year, and the network basked for a week in the antagonism of a sitting president
 It could all be written off as a sideshow, but it may present a genuine problem for Mr. Obama, who took great pains during the campaign to depict himself as being above the fray of over-heated partisan squabbling. In his victory speech he promised, ''I will listen to you, especially when we disagree.''
 Or not. Under the direction of Ms. Dunn, the administration has begun to punch back. On Sept. 20, the president visited all the Sunday talk shows save Fox News', with Ms. Dunn explaining that Fox was not a legitimate news organization, but a ''wing of the Republican Party.''
 The one weapon all administrations can wield is access, and the White House, making it clear that it will use that leverage going forward, informed Fox News not to expect to bump knees with the president until 2010. But Fox News, as many have pointed out, is not in the access business. They are in the agitation business. And the administration, by deploying official resources against a troublesome media organization, seems to have brought a knife to a gunfight.
 Tactics aside, something more fundamental is at risk. Even the president's most avid critics admit he exudes a certain cool confidence. The public impression of him is that if anyone were to, say, talk trash on the basketball court with Mr. Obama, he would not find much space for rent in Mr. Obama's head.
 Mr. Obama has also shown a consistent ability to disarm or at least engage his critics. When he eventually sat for an interview with the Fox News personality Bill O'Reilly two months before the election, it made for great television. But for the time being, detente seems very far away and the gap seems to be widening.
 On the official White House Web site, a blog called Reality Check provides a running tally of transgressions by Fox News. It ends with this: ''For even more Fox lies, check out the latest 'Truth-O-Meter' feature from Politifact that debunks a false claim about a White House staffer that continues to be repeated by Glenn Beck and others on the network.''
 People who work in political communications have pointed out that it is a principle of power dynamics to ''punch up '' -- that is, to take on bigger foes, not smaller ones. A blog on the White House Web site that uses a ''truth-o-meter'' against a particular cable news network would not seem to qualify. As it is, Reality Check sounds a bit like the blog of some unemployed guy living in his parents' basement, not an official communique from Pennsylvania Avenue. 
 The American presidency was conceived as a corrective to the royals, but trading punches with cable shouters seems a bit too common. Perhaps it's time to restore a little imperiousness to the relationship. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (77%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); TREASON (63%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GLENN BECK (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



534 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: The Vietnam War We Ignore

BYLINE: By LEWIS SORLEY. 
Lewis Sorley, a retired Army lieutenant colonel, is the author of ''A Better War: The Unexamined Victories and Final Tragedy of America's Last Years in Vietnam.''

DATELINE: Potomac, Md. 

 BODY:
 AS President Obama and his advisers contemplate a new course for Afghanistan, many commentators are suggesting analogies with earlier conflicts, particularly the war in Vietnam. Such comparisons can be useful, but only if the characterizations of earlier wars are accurate and lessons are appropriately applied.
 Vietnam is particularly tricky. While avoiding the missteps made there is of course a priority, few seem aware of the many successful changes in strategy undertaken in the later years of the conflict. The credit for those accomplishments goes in large part to three men: Ellsworth Bunker, who became the American ambassador to South Vietnam in 1967; William Colby, the C.I.A. officer in charge of rural ''pacification'' efforts; and Gen. Creighton Abrams, who became the top American commander there in 1968. 
 A closer look at key aspects of how these men rethought their war may prove instructive to those considering our options in Afghanistan today. Among their principles were these: 
 Fight one war: Abrams, Bunker and Colby agreed that the war would be fought -- and won or lost -- in the villages. They decided to put equal priority on all key aspects of the war -- thus the improvement of South Vietnam's armed forces and the elimination of covert Vietcong bases and refuges in rural areas were given the same emphasis as large combat operations. 
 In Afghanistan, it is vital that American and NATO troops get out of their protected bases to work alongside Afghan forces and build trust with civilians. In some ways this may be trickier than in Vietnam, as our troops will have to navigate the tribal and ethnic rivalries that have long divided Afghan society. 
 Rethink combat operations: The early strategy in Vietnam was to use large units in ''search and destroy'' sweeps -- often on ground of the enemy's choosing in the deep jungle. Abrams decided instead to try ''clear and hold'' operations, in which small patrols were sent to villages to protect the populace. These troops were followed by South Vietnamese security forces -- which Abrams made sure would get better training and equipment and were integrated into the regular army -- to provide the ''hold.''
 In Afghanistan, combat does little good unless allied or Afghan forces remain behind to keep the Taliban from simply moving back in.
 Restrain the use of force: Early on, Abrams said, ''My problem is colored blue.'' By that he meant that friendly forces (usually portrayed in blue on battle maps, as contrasted to the enemy shown in red) were causing undue ''collateral damage'' to the South Vietnamese people and their property. He reined in the use of heavy firepower like artillery and tactical airstrikes.
 Allied forces in Afghanistan may have to accept increased risks to themselves as the price of protecting the population. There have been some grumblings that they are hampered by the rules of engagement, and perhaps in platoon-level operations that it true. But Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the top American commander in Afghanistan, is right that Western forces have to cut down on civilian deaths caused by air power and reckless use of force.
 Create an effective central government: As Nguyen Van Thieu, who became South Vietnam's president in 1967, gained experience and influence, senior Americans came to regard him as the ''No. 1 pacification officer.'' He traveled extensively, promoting and evaluating local programs. And by 1972 his ''Land to the Tiller'' initiative had achieved genuine land reform, distributing two and a half million acres of land to nearly 400,000 farmers. 
 President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan has no signature triumph like Land to the Tiller, nor has he made many efforts to reach out to average Afghans. Perhaps Washington should make some of its support to his government contingent on anticorruption efforts and delivering real services to his people. 
 Support local governments: In Vietnam, rural hamlets were able to elect their own officials, who were sent to training sessions in the port city of Vung Tau. President Thieu spoke to every class, emphasizing that they had to be ''little presidents'' and make good use of the resources that the central government would provide for economic growth, health care and schools. 
 Given the diversified population of Afghanistan there has been too much emphasis on central government -- if the Karzai government lags in giving money and supplies to local and tribal leaders, the United States should consider doling out more aid directly to them. 
 Gather intelligence: ''The intelligence is the most important part of this whole damn thing,'' Abrams told a visiting officer. ''And if that's good, we can handle anything.'' The best way to root out the enemy's secret bases in Vietnam was to get good information from villagers and ''ralliers,'' former Vietcong rebels who had switched sides. 
 In Afghanistan, a continuing security presence in contested areas will be key to getting Afghans and former insurgents to aid the war effort. As long as they fear Taliban reprisal, locals will stay silent. 
 Build the economy: Vietnam depended on rice, and widespread fighting and enemy gains in early years took many acres of land out of cultivation. Pacification efforts put some of that land back into production and re-opened local markets, while the introduction of genetically engineered ''miracle rice'' greatly increased yields. In Afghanistan, finding viable alternative crops for farmers now growing opium poppies would seem to be a first order of business.
 Improve security: Protection of the people (not body counts, as in the earlier period) became the measure of progress in Vietnam. The appropriate metrics to watch in Afghanistan are probably economic growth, the percentage of children attending school and health data, along with freedom of movement within and between population centers. 
 Control the borders: In South Vietnam, allied forces were never able to seal off borders with Cambodia, Laos or North Vietnam. The self-imposed prohibitions against going outside South Vietnam with ground forces allowed the enemy to use border areas for training, supply routes and sanctuary. 
 Similarly, the Taliban uses the Pakistan border as its own barrier, and American drone attacks can do only so much. Either Washington must find a way to get the Pakistanis to step up the fight against the terrorists, or consider operations across the border. 
 Maintain political support at home: All that was accomplished on the battlefield in the latter years of Vietnam was lost when Congress, having tired of the whole endeavor, drastically cut support for South Vietnam. Neither Lyndon Johnson nor Richard Nixon was able to rally public and press support for the war. 
 President Obama has said that Afghanistan is a war of necessity. If so, he must put his political capital behind it. As he and his advisers plan the new course for the war, he must also come up with a new approach for selling it to Congress and the American people. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (75%) VIET NAM (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



535 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: For Governor of New Jersey

 BODY:
Like almost every other state in the union, New Jersey is in bad shape. Revenues are down. Unemployment is up. A state deficit is looming. Taxes are high, and more borrowing is taboo. Unfortunately for Gov. Jon Corzine, it is also election time. Mr. Corzine, a Democrat, has struggled through his first term, partly because of a legislature that will not make the tough decisions. He still has lessons to learn about communication and leadership, but he is a better choice for New Jersey voters than either of his challengers. He has earned another four years to deal with the state's budget problems and culture of corruption. 
 Despite his support from President Obama, Governor Corzine faces two formidable opponents who have made the most of his stormy first term. The Republican, Christopher Christie, a former United States attorney, has made headway by talking about slashing taxes and state programs. But his talk is far too vague, and he has no record to back it up. Further, there are concerns about whether he appointed politically connected friends to lucrative positions. There were also reports that his office targeted Democrats, including Senator Robert Menendez, close to election time.
 An engaging independent candidate, Christopher Daggett, has also done well, even though New Jersey's infamous political bosses have made sure that only the most intrepid voters will find him on the ballot. Mr. Daggett's contribution to this campaign has been his thought-provoking ideas about cutting property taxes and shifting some of the tax burden to high-end services like architect's or lawyer's fees or fancy haircut parlors. 
 It is far easier to come up with campaign themes than slog through the real-world quagmire of New Jersey politics, as Mr. Corzine has done. He inherited corruption that is legendary and a budget that his predecessors, Democratic and Republican, had milked nearly dry. Governor Corzine took some difficult steps, like his smart but unpopular plan to increase highway tolls. He shut down the state government when lawmakers refused to back his extra-lean budget. He has managed to increase the contributions to the underfunded pension plan. And he has begun the hard task of reforming state government by limiting some perks for state workers. 
 Mr. Corzine is hardly the perfect politician. Most New Jersey voters find him astonishingly inarticulate, and his credentials as a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs do not seem as impressive as they did before the financial meltdown in 2008. He has poured lots of his personal wealth into this race, far too much of it for biting -- and sometimes juvenile -- attacks on Mr. Christie. In his second term, we would like to see him back away from the state's unions.
 A New York Times poll completed last week captured the way New Jersey voters have been grumbling about all their choices for governor. But Jon Corzine, who is slightly ahead among likely voters, is a decent man with a laudable set of goals for his state. We endorse him for re-election in New Jersey on Nov. 3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



536 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Can Spare You a Dime

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
AT the dawn of the progressive era early in the last century, muckrakers attacked the first billionaire, John D. Rockefeller, for creating capitalism's most ruthless monster. ''The Octopus'' was their nickname for Standard Oil, the trust that controlled nearly 90 percent of American oil. But even in that primordial phase of the industrial era, Rockefeller was mindful of his public image and eager to counter it. ''His great brainstorm,'' writes his biographer, Ron Chernow, ''was undoubtedly his decision to dispense shiny souvenir dimes to adults and nickels to children as he moved about.'' Who could hate an octopus tossing glittering coins?
 It was hard not to think of Rockefeller's old P.R. playbook while watching Goldman Sachs's behavior when the Dow hit 10,000 last week. As leader of the Wall Street pack, Goldman declared surging profits, keeping it on track to dispense a record $23 billion in bonuses for 2009. But most Americans know all too well that only the intervention of billions of dollars in taxpayer bailout money saved Goldman from the dire fate of its less well-connected competitors. The growing ranks of under-and-unemployed Americans, meanwhile, are waiting with increasing desperation for a recovery of their own. 
 Goldman is this century's octopus -- almost literally so. The most-quoted sentence in financial journalism this year, by Matt Taibbi of Rolling Stone, describes the company as a ''great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.'' That's why Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, recycled Rockefeller's stunt last week: The announcement of Goldman's spectacular third-quarter earnings ($3.19 billion) was paired with the news that the company was donating $200 million to its own foundation, which promotes education. In Goldman dollars, that largess is roughly comparable to the nickels John D. handed out to children a century ago. At least those kids could spend the spare change on candy.
 Teddy Roosevelt's trust-busting crusade ultimately broke up Standard Oil. Though Goldman did outlast three of its four major rival firms during last fall's meltdown, it is not a monopoly. And there is one other significant way that our 21st-century vampire squid differs from Rockefeller's 20th-century octopus. Americans knew what oil was, and they understood how Standard Oil's manipulations directly affected their pocketbooks. Even now many Americans don't know what Goldman's products are or how it makes its money. The less we know, the easier it is for reckless gambling to return to capitalism's casino, and for Washington to look the other way as a new financial bubble inflates. 
 As Wall Street was celebrating last week, Congress was having a big week of its own, arousing itself to belatedly battle some of the corporate suspects that have helped drive America into its fiscal ditch. The big action was at the Senate Finance Committee, which finally produced a health care bill that, however gingerly, bids to reform industries that have feasted on the nation's Rube Goldberg medical system. At least health care, like oil, is palpable, so we will be able to keep score of how reform fares -- win, lose or draw. But the business of Wall Street, while also at center stage in a Congressional committee last week, is so esoteric that the public is understandably clueless as to what, if anything, the lawmakers were up to, if anyone even noticed at all. 
 The first stab at corrective legislation emerging from Barney Frank's Financial Services Committee in the House is porous. While unregulated derivatives remain the biggest potential systemic threat to the world's economy, Frank said that ''the great majority'' of businesses that use derivatives would not be covered under his committee's much-amended bill. It's also an open question whether the administration's proposed consumer agency to protect Americans from mortgage and credit-card outrages will survive the banking lobby's attempts to eviscerate it. As that bill stands now, more than 98 percent of America's banks -- mainly community banks, representing 20 percent of deposits -- would be shielded from the new agency's supervision.
 If it's too early to pronounce these embryonic efforts at financial reform a failure, it's hard to muster great hope. As the economics commentator Jeff Madrickpoints out in The New York Review of Books, the American public is still owed ''a clear account of the financial events of the last two years and of who, if anyone, is seriously to blame.'' Without that, there will be neither the comprehensive policy framework nor the political will to change anything. 
 The only investigation in town is a bipartisan Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission created by Congress in May. It is still hiring staff. Its 10 members are dispersed throughout the country, and, according to a spokeswoman, have contemplated only a half-dozen public sessions over the next year. Such a panel, led by the former California state treasurer Phil Angelides, seems highly unlikely to match Congress's Depression-era Pecora commission. That investigation was driven by a prosecutor whose relentless fact-finding riveted the country and gave birth to the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other New Deal reforms. Last week, we learned that the current S.E.C. has hired a former Goldman hand as the chief operating officer of its enforcement unit.
 Even as we wait for Congress and its inquiry to produce results, the cultural toxins revealed by our economic crisis remain unaddressed by the leaders in the private and public sectors who might make a difference now. Blankfein may be giving $200 million to ''education,'' but Goldman is back to business as usual: making money by high-risk gambling, with all the advantages that the best connections, cheap loans from the Fed and high-speed trading algorithms can bring. As the Reuters columnist Rolfe Winkler wrote last week, ''Main Street still owns much of the risk while Wall Street gets all of the profit.''
 The idea of investing in the real economy -- the one that might create jobs for Americans -- remains outre in this culture. Credit to small businesses remains tight. The holy capitalist grail is still the speculative buying and selling of companies and the concoction of ever more esoteric financial ''instruments.'' The tragic tale of Simmons Bedding recently told in The Times is a role model. This successful 133-year-old manufacturing enterprise was flipped seven times in two decades by private equity firms. Investors made more than $750 million in profits even as the pile-up of debt pushed Simmons into bankruptcy, costing a quarter of its loyal workers their jobs so far. 
 Most leaders in America are against this kind of ethos in principle. Last month the president of Harvard, Drew Gilpin Faust, contributed a stirring essay to The Times regretting that educational institutions did not make stronger efforts to assert the fundamental values of pure intellectual inquiry while ''the world indulged in a bubble of false prosperity and excessive materialism.'' She rued the rise of business as the most popular undergraduate major, an implicit reference to the go-go atmosphere during the reign of her predecessor, Lawrence Summers, now President Obama's chief economic adviser. 
 What went unsaid, of course, is that some of Harvard's most prominent alumni of the pre-Faust era -- Summers, Blankfein, Robert Rubin et al. -- were major players during the last two bubbles. As coincidence would have it, the same edition of The Times that published Faust's essay also included an article about how Harvard was scrounging for bucks by licensing a line of overpriced preppy clothing under the brand Harvard Yard. This sop to excessive materialism will be a scant recompense for the $11 billion Harvard's endowment managers lost in their own bad gamble on interest-rate swaps. 
 Obama has also passed through Harvard. (Disclosure: so did I.) He too has consistently said all the right things about the ''money culture'' of ''quick kills and bloated bonuses,'' of ''reckless behavior and unchecked excess.'' But the air of entitlement that continues to waft from his administration sends another message.
 In particular, the tone-deaf Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, never ceases to amaze. His daily calendars reveal that most of his contacts with the financial sector in the first seven months of 2009 were limited to the trinity of Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and JPMorgan. And last week Bloomberg News reported that his inner circle of ''counselors'' -- key advisers who, conveniently enough, do not require Senate confirmation -- are largely drawn from the same club. It's hard to see how any public official can challenge a culture that he is marinating in, night and day.
 Those Obama fans who are disappointed keep looking for explanations. Is he too impressed by the elite he met in Cambridge, too eager to split the difference between left and right, too willing to compromise? As he pursues legislation, why does he keep deferring to others -- whether to his party's Congressional leaders or the Congressional Budget Office or to this month's acting president, Olympia Snowe? Why doesn't he ever draw a line in the sand? ''We know Obama has good values,'' Jeff Madrick said to me last week, ''but we don't know if he has convictions.'' 
 What we also know is that if Teddy Roosevelt palled around with John D. Rockefeller as today's political class does with Wall Street's titans and lobbyists, the tentacles of the original octopus would still be coiled tightly around America's neck. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); WRITERS (76%); CORPORATE GIVING (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); JOURNALISM (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (90%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



537 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 18, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Frustrated Liberal Lawmaker Balances Beliefs and Realities

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Representative Earl Blumenauer should be experiencing the most fulfilling days of his more than 35 years in public service.
 The liberal Democrat from Portland, Ore. -- known for his bowties, his Trek bicycle and a pragmatic brand of progressivism -- embraced Barack Obama's presidential candidacy early in 2008 and campaigned hard alongside him, steadily gaining confidence that the young senator from Illinois was the ideal liberal remedy to eight years of conservative dominance.
 Now political reality has set in, testing Mr. Blumenauer's faith that Mr. Obama's election and big Democratic majorities in Congress would yield quick advances in the progressive agenda. 
 Instead of forging ahead, Mr. Blumenauer, 61, finds himself fighting to retain one of the touchstones for liberals this year, a public insurance option in the health care overhaul, and is watching his hopes of curbing global warming grow cold in the Senate. Mr. Blumenauer, a seven-term congressman, is bracing for a tough vote on sending more troops to Afghanistan while he frets about the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay remaining open. 
 ''It has been a hard landing for a lot of the people that I represent,'' Mr. Blumenauer, referring to his largely liberal constituency, said as he assessed the first months of the Obama administration. 
 As health care legislation moves to the floor with other major issues close behind, the question for Mr. Blumenauer and those who share his ideology will be whether they relent on some of their core beliefs to support less satisfying compromises, despite being in what, on the surface, is a commanding political position. 
 ''It is still something that I am struggling with,'' he said.
 Mr. Blumenauer is just one example of what might be called the Frustrated Left, a substantial caucus of Congressional Democrats who dreamed that Mr. Obama would usher in a new era of liberal problem-solving only to see Congress and the new administration collide with the old problems of partisanship, internal disagreement and the challenge of mustering 60 votes to get just about anything done in the Senate. 
 While Congressional leaders try to appease moderate and conservative Democrats who can provide the crucial votes for passage, more liberal Democrats from safer districts sometimes simmer, feeling that they are being taken for granted while it is assumed they will get on board when the time comes.
 On health care, Democrats are growing more optimistic that they can find a compromise approach to creating a government-run insurer to compete with the private sector -- an issue that as much as any other has split the party's liberals and moderates -- even as progressive voices outside of Congress insist that there be no compromise. 
 ''The fact is that Earl Blumenauer could stop a bill going through that does not have a public option in it,'' said Jane Hamsher, founder of the progressive blog firedoglake.com. ''Is it his loyalty to the party, partisan politics over principle? We are going to get to see that.''
 Mr. Blumenauer strongly favors a public option and in late July was one of more than 60 Democrats who signed a letter to the leadership saying that, essentially, they would not back a final bill without an acceptable public plan. But on health care -- as on other domestic issues, global warming and foreign policy -- he must weigh whether it makes more sense to take what he can get as opposed to standing firm and perhaps seeing the overall effort collapse.
 ''It would be very hard for me to do,'' Mr. Blumenauer said of voting for a final health care overhaul without a public plan. ''But if it gets to the point where the choice is doing some things that will make a significant difference without a public option or letting the whole thing die, that too would be hard.''
 Mr. Blumenauer got on board early with Mr. Obama after concluding that he offered the chance for a more decisive change in course than Hillary Rodham Clinton could provide. He first met Mr. Obama at the 2004 Democratic convention in Boston and endorsed him in late January 2008. 
 ''There was something going on here, this guy has got some real capacity being able to, I think, connect, communicate,'' remembered Mr. Blumenauer.
 Mr. Obama won Oregon and Mr. Blumenauer's district going away, setting sky-high expectations among his followers in the Pacific Northwest. 
 Mr. Blumenauer, a member of the tax-writing and climate change committees with a devotion to trying to improve the livability of American cities, said he did not think Mr. Obama had shifted his ideological stance since his election and did not blame the president for the problems slowing the liberal agenda. He said he saw a combination of factors -- the troubled economy, the sheer scope of the nation's problems and an unexpected level of Republican opposition -- as the culprits.
 ''The combination of the economic shock and frankly the political upset and outrage has changed the landscape,'' Mr. Blumenauer said. ''The Barack Obama that I campaigned with is pretty much the same guy. But it is an environment that is unprecedented and would press anyone's skills.''
 Back home, Mr. Blumenauer said his constituents had shown patience with the pace of things, partly, he suggested, because they were so disenchanted with the Bush administration. 
 Activists and pollsters in Oregon said that they agreed but that the patience of Mr. Blumenauer's liberal base was not unlimited.
 ''I think people realize you can't do everything precisely all at once,'' said Steve Novick, a Democratic advocate in Portland who lost a Senate bid in 2008.
 Senator Ron Wyden, whose move to the Senate opened up the House seat for Mr. Blumenauer in 1996, said Oregon residents grasped the complexity of the problems facing the country. ''Look at what is coming at us: Iraq, Afghanistan, Iran,'' he said. ''There is a sense that there is going to be a lot of heavy lifting, but people want to stay at it until it happens.''
 Even with his frustrations, Mr. Blumenauer said that having a Democratic administration had paid tangible benefits. The secretaries of the housing and transportation departments have visited Portland, and he recently hosted Lisa P. Jackson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in his office. ''They want to be a partner on the cleanup rather than ignoring it,'' he said, referring to environmental cleanup projects in his state. 
 And though some of his preferred legislative approaches might be stalled or fall victim to compromise, Mr. Blumenauer said he believed that Mr. Obama and the Democratic majorities in Congress would ultimately be successful in advancing a liberal agenda on the major issues.
 ''We are going to be working on climate, on health care, on the economy for every minute of the next two Congresses and beyond,'' he said. ''Will the public be patient enough? Will the political process hold together?
 ''This is not going to be easy,'' he said, ''but I think we are seeing a process that makes me actually optimistic, even though it is not exactly like I would have liked.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Earl Blumenauer with two staff members, Larry Weinstock and Janine Benner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A31) MAP: A Coalition for the Left: Members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus -- the largest coalition of Democrats in the House -- represent 79 districts across the country, mostly located in urban and suburban areas in the Northeast and the West. All but four of the districts voted Democratic in the three presidential elections since 2000.(Note: The caucus has a total of 82 members. Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, and two delegates from the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands are not shown.)(A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%)

PERSON: EARL BLUMENAUER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BERNIE SANDERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009



538 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Did the Smart Guys Destroy Wall Street?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Wall Street Smarts'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 14):
 Like Calvin Trillin, I remember the 1950s and '60s when all the smart kids I grew up with became scientists, mathematicians, professors or engineers. 
 What does it say about the character of our nation when today our best and brightest young minds opt for careers in financial services? It says for sure that we are headed in a decadent, downward direction. 
 More than Wall Street will tumble when the lure of money is more powerful than the lure of knowledge and when, as Mr. Trillin so wisely notes, the big earners lose their ''sense of enoughness.''
 Vivian E. Greenberg Lawrenceville, N.J., Oct. 14, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Calvin Trillin's observation about academic achievement and wealth reminds me of my own experience.
 When I attended graduate school in chemistry at Purdue University 40 years ago, there was a large posting that read: ''Professors, be good to your A students, for one day they will come back and make excellent faculty. Be good to your B students, because they are the mainstay of the graduate class. Be good to your C students, for one day they will come back and donate $100 million for a new science building.'' 
 David Emlyn Hughes Pennington, N.J., Oct. 14, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Calvin Trillin attributes the near-collapse of Wall Street to the influx of the brightest academic achievers to the financial markets. 
 The influx of high academic achievers caused Wall Street's problems, but it was through stupidity, not brilliance.
 These superstars failed because they are not as bright as they or others think they are, and had no business being at the levels of any institution where strategic decisions are made.
 The ability to perform long division means nothing if one is so lacking in understanding of human behavior as to believe that someone whose mortgage just doubled and house value dropped 30 percent is very likely to keep paying his or her house note. Building financial instruments on that belief was clueless, not smart.
 Marco Giorgi Fallon, Nev., Oct. 14, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Calvin Trillin's drinking buddy may be right that the near-collapse of the financial system happened because the smart guys went to Wall Street. But that is not the only place they have gone in recent decades. They also went to K Street in Washington, where they have brought about transformations in the working culture similar to those they brought to Wall Street. 
 Unfortunately, it is not clear whether we have yet felt the full impact of their handiwork on our political capital.
 L. K. Lundwall Westminster, Mass., Oct. 14, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I have an alternative explanation for Calvin Trillin to consider.
 The economic debacle on Wall Street was fueled by an intellectually and morally bankrupt administration that (as once and future partners of those involved in the chase for unlimited bounty) allowed lack of regulation and lax enforcement to create an environment where unchecked greed was not only made possible but was also encouraged.
 Robert S. Nussbaum Fort Lee, N.J., Oct. 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); NEVADA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



539 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Energy Star Appliances May Not All Be Efficient, Audit Finds

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Energy Department has concluded in an internal audit that it does not properly track whether manufacturers that give their appliances an Energy Star label have met the required specifications for energy efficiency.
 Some manufacturers could therefore be putting the stickers on unqualified products, according to the audit, by the Energy Department's inspector general, Gregory H. Friedman.
 The Energy Star program, jointly managed by the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, has benefited from a renewed emphasis by the Obama administration, as a mechanism for reducing the waste of energy and curbing resulting greenhouse gas emissions. Under the federal stimulus bill, $300 million will go to rebates for consumers who buy Energy Star products. 
 Some consumers choose energy-efficient appliances for the same reason they might choose a car with good fuel economy: to save money or reduce the environmental impact. 
 Teams from the Energy Department and the E.P.A. oversee different categories of products. Last December, the environmental agency's inspector general said the Energy Star ratings for products it oversees, like computers and television sets, were ''not accurate or verifiable'' because of weak oversight by the agency. 
 The Energy Department vowed then to scrutinize its performance in evaluating the products that it oversees, like windows, dishwashers, washing machines and refrigerators.
 The new audit, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, indicates that the Energy Department has also fallen far short. Those shortcomings ''could reduce consumer confidence in the integrity of the Energy Star label,'' according to the department's inspector general. The audit is to be submitted to Energy Secretary Steven Chu this week. While the Energy Department requires manufacturers of windows and L.E.D. and fluorescent lighting to have independent laboratories evaluate their products, the report said, companies that make refrigerators, washing machines, dishwashers, water heaters and room air-conditioners, which consume far more energy, can certify those appliances themselves. 
 One refrigerator manufacturer tipped off the Energy Department that some models from a competitor that carried the Energy Star label did not meet the criteria, the audit said. That problem was also described by Consumer Reports magazine in October 2008 about tests it had conducted. In a settlement last year, the manufacturer, LG of South Korea, agreed to modify circuit boards in the machines already sold, to reduce their consumption and to compensate consumers for the extra power consumed. 
 The report also noted that while the government said in 2007 that it would conduct ''retail assessments'' to ensure that all the products carrying the Energy Star logo deserved them, it is still not doing so for windows, doors, skylights, water heaters and solid-state lighting. And the department is not following through to ensure that when inappropriately labeled products are identified, the labels are actually taken off, the audit said. 
 In one category, compact fluorescent lights, the government has certified nearly all existing products, the audit said. ''When 90 percent of the products qualify, the consumer cannot easily judge the relative efficiencies of C.F.L. products,'' the report said. 
 Jen Stutsman, an Energy Department spokeswoman, cited the recent agreement with the E.P.A., and said, ''The Obama administration is strongly committed to ensuring that all Energy Star products provide American consumers with significant energy and cost savings, and has moved forward with steps to streamline and enhance the program.''
 An outside expert, Lane Burt, the manager of building energy policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said some of the criticisms were justified. 
 ''It's been a tremendously successful program,'' Mr. Burt said. ''It's grown by leaps and bounds, and any time you have that kind of growth, you're going to have growing pains.''
 Nonetheless, he said, ''it's crucial to make sure consumers are actually saving money and energy when buying an Energy Star appliance.'' On Sept. 30, the Energy Department and the E.P.A. signed a memorandum of understanding that seeks to address some of the shortcomings detailed in the report. 
 Mr. Burt said the memorandum committed both agencies to having all of their products evaluated by certified independent laboratories, and to expand the Energy Star program to cover products that were not in common use when it began in 1996. No target date was set.
 The memorandum called for a ''super star'' program within Energy Star to identify the top-performing 5 percent of products, ranked by efficiency, he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An agency audit also criticized the number of compact fluorescent lights approved. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (94%); AUDITS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (63%)

COMPANY: LG CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: 003550 (KSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (63%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



540 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A Newsroom Subsidized? Minds Reel

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Those of us who work in traditional media have spent a fair amount of time wondering what part of the implosion in advertising revenue is cyclical (ad buying is suffering because of the recession) and what part is secular (we're making horse buggies). 
 The beginnings of an answer came on Thursday, when Google announced that search advertising had come roaring back and said that stronger-than-expected third-quarter results suggested the global economy might be coming back. Net income rose 27 percent in the third quarter as strong advertising sales, most all of it from search, increased revenue 7 percent. 
 Oh, and there was good news for newspapers as well. Turns out while the McClatchy Company's advertising revenue fell 28.1 percent in the third quarter, it was not as bad as the 29.9 percent it dropped in the first six months. O.K., not so great, but with net income of $23.6 million in the quarter, it was a huge improvement over the $4.2 million a year earlier. 
 The reason the balance sheet cleaned up so nicely? The company eliminated more than 30 percent of its work force in the 18 months. 
 What this suggests is that we're facing a paperless recovery wherein old-line content companies need to continue to slash in order to stay ahead of what looks to be a broad secular decline. 
 Leonard Downie Jr. knows the story all too well. As executive editor of The Washington Post for 17 years, he watched as the Web first seemed to enable and eventually came to threaten organizations that support large newsrooms. 
 Mr. Downie and Michael Schudson, a professor at the Columbia University Journalism School, were commissioned by Nicholas B. Lemann, the dean of the journalism school, to write a report on the future of news and the newsroom. It was Mr. Downie who came up with the insight a few years back that the most important fight is not for newspapers, but for the newsrooms they support. The report's title, ''The Reconstruction of American Journalism,'' telegraphs its sober intent, a realpolitik way of thinking that is reflected in the opening words of the report:
 ''Fewer journalists are reporting less news in fewer pages, and the hegemony that near-monopoly metropolitan newspapers enjoyed during the last third of the 20th century, even as their primary audience eroded, is ending.''
 In other words, the current advertising model won't continue to support so-called accountability journalism. 
 ''Some of the advertising is going to come back as the economy does, but I think we all know that much of what has taken place is secular and not cyclical,'' Mr. Downie said in a phone call on Friday. ''And the Internet philosophers who suggest that individuals posting on the Web are going to replace what newsrooms have been doing are not being realistic. We have to find new ways to maintain professional news-gathering capacity.''
 Clocking in at just under 100 pages, the report probably isn't going to get looked at much beyond people in this racket, but it's a worthy read, in part because it dwells less on the glory days -- the amount of real news in 10 metropolitan newspapers doubled from 1964 to 1999 -- and meets current realities head-on. The number of newspaper editorial employees grew to 60,000 in 1992, from 40,000 in 1971, and is now driving back to 40,000 in 2009, with no real bottom in sight.
 Mr. Downie and Mr. Schudson came up with six recommendations, which include tinkering with the tax structure to accommodate nonprofit status for news-gathering organizations, persuading philanthropic foundations to fill the funding gap in more permanent ways, involving universities in news gathering, and opening up databases to make them more useful for both pro and pro-am efforts.
 Two of the recommendations caught my eye, both of which will create significant turbulence if they gain traction in the discussion. 
 First, the pair suggests reorienting public radio and television to provide local news, historically not a big interest of public broadcasters. The report says somewhat tartly that much of the money from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting is spent on broadcast facilities and television production companies, with ''very little money spent on local news coverage by individual public radio and television stations.'' 
 It goes on to suggest that the C.P.B. should step in to consolidate competing fiefs and begin to require a minimum amount of local news reporting in return for funds. 
 ''The money is there, but a lot of it gets sunk into facilities and programming to drive membership, and it needs to be reallocated to reflect the need for local coverage,'' Mr. Downie said. ''And it has to be mandated because this is a time of crisis and we can't just depend on good intentions.''
 The other recommendation that will kick up some dust proclaims that it's time for government to start funding local news, much in the way it enables the arts, humanities and sciences. 
 The Federal Communications Commission spends $7 billion a year collected from telephone bills to underwrite telecommunications services in remote areas and help schools and libraries get wired. The report suggests that some of that money, along with fees paid for broadcast licenses or auctions of bandwidth, should go into a Fund for Local News. And commercial television stations that are not living up to their public-service requirements to provide local coverage should be forced to chip in.
 Eric Schmidt, chief of Google, was recently in New York meeting with reporters and talked a lot about the importance of the plan for universal broadband in the United States, but ''The Reconstruction of American Journalism'' goes beyond building infrastructure and suggests it's time to start funding what goes into those pipes. Mr. Downie said that it can be done with safeguards to ensure that the government doesn't become the yard boss of what constitutes worthy news.
 ''We are just suggesting that certain kinds of reporting are a public good and should be funded as such,'' Mr. Downie said. ''There are plenty of precedents and I don't think that government support necessarily means government control.''
 He knows that the very idea of government-financed media will put some people in a tizzy, but said, ''We are at something of a pivot point, a very real crisis that is happening right now.''
 So there you have it. All we have to do is get the government to open the kimono on databases, foundations to rethink their priorities, universities to become newsrooms, rewrite the federal tax code, get public broadcasting overlords to think local, and commercial broadcasters to kick in money for the public good, and we will have a dependable news infrastructure for a new, more complicated age. If only it were so simple.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); WRITERS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (83%); GOOGLE INC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (83%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



541 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Amid Ruin Of Flint, Seeing Hope In a Garden

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich. 

 BODY:
 On one side of the fertile lot stands an abandoned house, stripped long ago for scrap. On the other side, another abandoned house, windows boarded, structure sagging. And diagonally across the street, two more abandoned houses, including one blackened by a fire maybe a year ago, maybe two.
 But on this lot, surrounded by desertion in the north end of Flint, the toughest city in America, collard greens sprout in verdant surprise. Although the broccoli and turnips and snap peas have been picked, it is best to wait until deep autumn for the greens, says the garden's keeper, Harry Ryan. The frost lends sweetness to the leaves.
 His is not just another tiny community garden growing from a gap in the urban asphalt. This one lot is really 10 contiguous lots where a row of houses once stood. On this spot, the house burned down. (''I was the one who called the fire department.'') On that spot, the house was lost to back taxes. (''An older guy; he was trying to fix it up, and he was struggling.'')
 Garbage and chest-high overgrowth filled the domestic void of these lots on East Piper Avenue until four years ago, when Mr. Ryan decided one day: no. After receiving the proper permission, he began clearing the land. 
 Rose Barber, 56, a neighbor who keeps a 30-inch Louisville Slugger, a Ryne Sandberg model, by her front door, offered her help. Then came Andre Jones, 40, another neighbor, using his shovel to do the backbreaking work of uncovering long stretches of sidewalk, which had disappeared under inches of soil, weeds and municipal neglect.
 East Piper Avenue now has its sidewalk back, along with a vegetable garden, a grassy expanse where a children's playground will be built, and, close to one of those abutting abandoned houses, a mix-and-match orchard of 18 young fruit trees. 
 ''This is a Golden Delicious tree,'' Mr. Ryan says, reading the tags on the saplings. ''This is a Warren pear. That's a McIntosh. This is a Mongolian cherry tree. ...''
 In many ways, this garden on East Piper Avenue reflects all of Flint, a city working hard to re-invent itself, a city so weary of serving as the country's default example of post-industrial decline. Nearly every day its visitors' bureau sends out a ''Changing Perceptions of Flint'' e-mail message that includes a call to defend the city's honor: 
 ''If a blogger is bashing Flint and Genesee County, go post a positive message. If there is an article about the depressed economy in Flint, go post something uplifting.''
 But uplifting and depressing both describe Flint, where encouraging development grows beside wholesale abandonment. You can visit one of the first-class museums (at the moment, the Flint Institute of Arts has a music-enhanced exhibit of rock 'n' roll posters), then drive past rows of vacant, vandalized houses that convey a Hurricane Katrina despair -- though Flint's hurricane came in the form of the automobile industry's collapse.
 No question: Downtown Flint, about five miles from Mr. Ryan's garden, suddenly feels vital. A large civil engineering firm has built an office there, and the headquarters of a second large firm is about to open. New dormitory rooms at the University of Michigan-Flint are full. New restaurants have popped up, including an Irish pub in a long-closed men's clothing store. An old flophouse is now a smart apartment complex. The majestic Durant Hotel, vacant for 35 years, is being transformed into apartments for students and young professionals.
 And just last week, General Motors announced a $230 million investment in four local factories as part of its plan to build a new generation of fuel-efficient cars.
 But Dayne Walling, the recently elected mayor, says these developments, while exciting, tell but one side of the city's story. The other side: a steep decline in the tax base, an unemployment rate hovering around 25 percent, rising health care and pension costs, drastic cutbacks in municipal services, a legacy of fiscal mismanagement -- and, of course, the loss of some 70,000 jobs at General Motors, the industry that defined Flint for nearly a century.
 The job loss, compounded by the recession, has led to an astonishing plunge in the city's population -- to about 110,000, and falling, from roughly 200,000 in 1960. Thousands of abandoned houses now haunt the 34-square-mile city; one in four houses is said to be vacant.
 As a result, Flint finds itself the centerpiece of a national debate about so-called shrinking cities, in which mostly abandoned neighborhoods might become green space, and their residents would be encouraged to live closer to a downtown core. 
 The matter is being pressed here by the Genesee County Land Bank, which acquires foreclosed properties and works with communities to restore or demolish them. It has been sponsoring a series of forums titled ''Strengthening Our Community in the Face of Population Decline.''
 Mayor Walling, though, prefers to talk about sustainable cities, rather than shrinking cities. He imagines the Flint of 2020 as a city of 100,000, with a vibrant downtown surrounded by greener neighborhoods, in which residents have doubled their lot sizes by acquiring adjacent land where houses once stood.
 ''We're down, but we're not out,'' he says. ''And that's a classic American story.''
 Part of that classic story is up in the north end, on East Piper Avenue, where some people are trying to make use of one of the few abundant resources in Flint: land.
 Harry Ryan, 59, the child of auto workers, traveled for years as a rhythm and blues musician before returning to follow his parents into the auto plants. He got laid off, found other employment, and is now retired, with gray in his moustache and a stoop to his walk.
 In 2005 he went to the land bank -- he is on its advisory board -- and received permission to plant a garden on a lot it owns a few yards from the broken side window of an abandoned house. He and some neighbors cleaned brush, removed the remnant pieces of concrete of demolished houses, and planted hardy turnips and greens.
 But the garden could not contain their growing sense of pride in their community. Soon they were mowing front lawns all along East Piper Avenue -- for free, and without seeking permission. ''We just cut everybody's property, even if they were sitting on the porch,'' he says. ''Sometimes they wouldn't say anything, and that would get us mad.''
 That first year, Mr. Ryan and Ms. Barber, who works nights at the post office, bagged up the greens and gave them away, often by just leaving a bag at the door of someone they suspected could use the food but was too proud to ask for it. But they also ate some of what they harvested; Mr. Ryan still savors that first batch of collard greens he had with some smoked turkey.
 Today, the ever-expanding garden continues to feed people. Front lawns are still mowed, though now by neighborhood children paid through a county grant. Ms. Barber still works in the garden, and Mr. Jones has expanded his sidewalk mission to the cross street of Verdun, where he has cleared a path past the shell of a house lost to arson. 
 When asked why he does the work, he just says, ''It needs to be done.''
 As for Mr. Ryan, he is working on a plan to build a power-generating windmill in the garden on East Piper Avenue in the great Michigan city of Flint. That's right: a windmill. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IT'S A START: Harry Ryan, top, at home in Flint, Mich., and displaying a turnip, far left, from a community garden, which has produced snap peas, collard greens and broccoli. Andre Jones, a volunteer, working on East Piper Avenue, where houses like the one at left are in disrepair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GARDENING (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (88%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



542 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Energy Firms Find No Unity On Climate Bill

BYLINE: By JOHN BRODER and JAD MOUAWAD; John Broder reported from Washington, and Jad Mouawad from New York. Clifford Krauss contributed reporting from Houston.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the Senate prepares to tackle global warming, the nation's energy producers, once united, are battling one another over policy decisions worth hundreds of billions of dollars in coming decades. 
 Producers of natural gas are battling their erstwhile allies, the oil companies. Electrical utilities are fighting among themselves over the use of coal versus wind power or other renewable energy. Coal companies are battling natural gas firms over which should be used to produce electricity. And the renewable power industry is elbowing for advantage against all of them.
 Some supporters of global warming legislation believe that the division in the once-monolithic oil and gas industry, as well as other splits among energy producers, could improve the prospects for the legislation.
 ''It's much harder to pass clean-energy legislation when big oil and other energy interests are united in their opposition,'' said Daniel J. Weiss, climate policy director at the liberal Center for American Progress. ''The companies that recognize the economic benefits in the bill can help bring along their political supporters.'' 
 The American Petroleum Institute trade group, dominated by major oil companies, opposes the legislation, saying it would discourage domestic exploration and lead to higher oil prices. But some natural gas companies, though longtime members of the institute, have formed a separate lobby and are working actively with the bill's sponsors to cut a better deal for their product.
 The proposal moving through Congress would cap the emissions of greenhouse gases each year and allow companies to buy and sell permits to pollute. That approach, known as cap and trade, is meant to guarantee that emissions will decline, while providing market incentives for companies to invest in low-carbon technologies.
 The measure would effectively put a price on carbon, raising the prospect that some energy producers might have to pay more than others. For that reason, billions of dollars could be at stake in some of the most arcane language in the bill. 
 Energy lobbies are using every tactic in the book to protect their industries, producing alarming studies about $5 gasoline and other steep cost increases that might result from a cap-and-trade system. They are also financing protest groups and advertising campaigns. In one case, a public relations firm working for the coal industry even sent opposition letters to Congress under forged names.
 The divisions in the energy sector mirror a split in the broader business community. Several large companies like Apple and the utility Exelon left the United States Chamber of Commerce recently over the group's opposition to climate change legislation. 
 But the biggest fights are among energy producers. They have spent more than $200 million in the first half of the year on lobbying efforts in Washington, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group, up from $174 million in the same period last year.
 ''The fact that the lobbying is so fast and so furious is a positive sign that this thing is moving along,'' said Mark Brownstein, a managing director at the Environmental Defense Fund and an advocate of climate legislation. ''The fact that everyone is rushing to Washington tells you people believe it is real.''
 As legislation inches through Capitol Hill, onetime allies in the utility sector, like Exelon, which operates low-emission nuclear plants, and the Southern Company, a big consumer of coal, find themselves on opposite sides of the debate over renewable energy. 
 Utilities that have access to hydroelectric power or operate nuclear plants tend to favor a national mandate to increase the use of renewable power, because their carbon emissions are relatively low. Many coal-dependent utilities, particularly in the Southeast and Midwest, oppose the provision because they emit more carbon and would have to buy more permits over time.
 In past energy policy debates, the oil and gas lobbies were largely united. In 2005, they won incentives for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Two years later, after Democrats had taken control of Congress, producers were unable to block a huge new mandate for alternative fuels like ethanol and biodiesel, but managed to save valuable oil industry tax breaks that some Democrats tried to end.
 Today, each energy subsector, fearing any legislation that might give it a disadvantage, is battling for favor. The gas producers, for example, have formed the American Natural Gas Alliance, which is spending heavily on advertising and lobbying to point out that gas emits roughly half the carbon dioxide of coal. The group has also helped organize its allies in Congress into a new natural gas caucus, with two dozen members.
 ''These fissures are happening because a policy is increasingly seen as inevitable,'' said David G. Victor, an energy expert at the University of California, San Diego. ''Old coalitions are splintering and fascinating new alliances are being formed.'' 
 The most important fight is over whether companies have to buy pollution permits, called allowances, or whether the government hands them out free in the early years to help ease the cost of the transition.
 President Obama has said the permits should be auctioned, an approach that would cost companies tens of billions of dollars. But after fierce lobbying from electrical utilities, the House made the permits free in the first decade of the program, to help finance the transition to cleaner fuels and to shield electrical consumers from higher prices. 
 Industry analysts say the utilities' willingness to negotiate with Democratic lawmakers gained them a huge advantage when the House passed its climate bill in June. The oil and natural gas industries, by contrast, felt shunned in the House debate because they would not negotiate, these analysts say. 
 For example, oil companies complained that their mandated purchase of emissions permits would amount to a tax to be used to clean up dirty coal plants.
 ''There was an inherent flaw when Congress set off down the road of favoring one fuel source over another,'' said J. Larry Nichols, chairman of Devon Energy, an independent oil and gas company, and also chairman of the American Petroleum Institute. ''You knew there had to be a feeding frenzy among various competing fuels trying to protect themselves.''
 Half of the nation's electrical power is generated by burning coal, and emission limits are a long-term threat to the business. The coal industry, through a group it finances called the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, is running a campaign to persuade the public that coal is affordable, abundant and can be cleaned up thanks to still-distant technology that would capture carbon emissions and store them underground. 
 Some coal executives aim to scuttle legislation in the Senate by continuing to cast doubts on the science of climate change.
 ''A lot of coal-using utilities seem to be on the wrong side of this issue,'' said Don L. Blankenship, the chief executive of Massey Energy, the largest producer of Appalachian coal, who has called climate legislation a hoax and a Ponzi scheme. ''How can they be so confident that man is changing the world climate?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Energy executives before a House committee in February. Second from right, J. Larry Nichols of Devon Energy and the American Petroleum Institute, says favoring some fuels had a flaw.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (87%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (82%)

PERSON: J LARRY NICHOLS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



543 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 494 words

BYLINE: By KRISHNAN VASUDEVAN

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 In School, in Debt
 And Seeking Help
 Since starting graduate school, Ryan McLendon has lived almost entirely on student loans. All together, he has taken out $95,000 in five years. With less than three months until his graduation from New York University's journalism school, Mr. McLendon had a choice to make to keep financially afloat: take on more debt, or get help. 
 On Thursday, Mr. McLendon applied for food stamps.
 ''I don't have the assistance from family,'' said Mr. McLendon, 25, who grew up in Cincinnati. And he is reluctant to tell his mother and stepfather, who cannot afford to help him, about his decision.
 ''Maybe they've heard on talk radio that public assistance is for welfare queens, but I didn't see that,'' said Mr. McLendon, who waited more than seven hours on Wednesday and Thursday to see a food stamps counselor in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. A few friends were also receiving food stamps, he said.
 A self-proclaimed lover of good food, Mr. McLendon said he has scoured the campus for free meals. ''I have a Google filter on my Gmail to let me know when N.Y.U. food events are happening,'' he said.
 He said he eats out less and stretches his grocery money by preparing dishes like black bean soup and chili in bulk.
 But in line at the food stamp center -- in the cold, surrounded by many young families, in a line of that extended to the end of the block -- Mr. McLendon began second-guessing his decision. ''Other people were in so much more in need than I was,'' he said, ''and I kind of felt bad being there.''
 Mr. McLendon says that he has a few thousand dollars left in loan money to get by and that his monthly bills total about $1,500. But he has made only $4,000 in freelance fees this year and is about to enter an uncertain journalism job market.
 In addition, he will have to start paying off his debts. If he does not find a reporting job, he said, ''I can become a server to bide my time while doing freelance and maybe interning someplace else.''
 When Mr. McLendon finally did get to see a counselor on Thursday, he was told that the computers were down and that his application would be processed in three to five days. 
 ''I can buy groceries today if I need to,'' he said, ''but I don't know if other people there can do that.'' 
 KRISHNAN VASUDEVAN VIDEO: Online: In a video, Ryan McLendon talks about his decision to apply for food stamps.
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 INTERACTIVE: Reaching Out: For more coverage of the human side of the recession, visit the Living With Less guide, where readers can share their photos, moods and tips for weathering the economic downturn.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Joshua B. Freeman, professor and author of ''Working-Class New York: Life and Labor Since World War II,'' will take readers' questions about the history of the city's unions, labor politics and changing work force. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ryan McLendon waiting to apply for food stamps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISHNAN VASUDEVAN/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (91%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); EMPLOYMENT (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); STEPPARENTS (55%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



544 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (HBO) SCHMATTA: RAGS TO RICHES TO RAGS For the last 50 years garment production in the United States has been on a steep decline; 95 percent of American clothing was made here in 1965, but only 5 percent is today. And nowhere has that production been more vital to a city's success than in New York. This documentary from Marc Levin examines the effect of the increased globalization of clothing manufacturing on the city's once-thriving garment district. The economic and social forces that have transformed the industry and the nation over the last century are explored through interviews with those who have experienced as many ups and downs as hemlines, including Fern Mallis, the creator of Fashion Week; the designer Isaac Mizrahi; Joe Raico, above, a fabric cutter; Irving Rousso, a rags-to-riches garmento; and Lisa Nussbaum, a cousin of Sadie Nussbaum, one of 146 people who died in the Triangle Shirtwaist fire of 1911.
 7 P.M. (Showtime) BUD GREENSPAN PRESENTS: BEIJING 2008 -- AMERICA'S OLYMPIC GLORY In this documentary about the Olympics, Mr. Greenspan goes behind the scenes in China and interviews American athletes and medalists including Jason Lezak, the swim team captain; the gymnast Nastia Liukin; Brenda Villa, the captain of the water polo team; and the fencers Keeth and Erinn Smart. 
 8 P.M. (NBC) HEROES Samuel (Robert Knepper) guides Sylar (Zachary Quinto) on a quest to discover his true identity. Hiro (Masi Oka) helps Emma (Deanne Bray) understand the power and possibilities that come with having an ability. Meanwhile Peter (Milo Ventimiglia) and H R G (Jack Coleman) try to find a healer who can save Hiro's life.
 8 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE Cameron (Jennifer Morrison) persuades House (Hugh Laurie) to study the case of a defiant -- and asymptomatic -- police detective (Jon Seda, right) whose family history of sudden heart failure killed is father, grandfather and great-grandfather at the age of 40. Elsewhere Chase (Jesse Spencer) is haunted by his actions in the African dictator case, while House deals with a few ghosts of his own.
 8 P.M. (CNBC) THE BUSINESS OF INNOVATION ''Rethinking Work'': James Surowiecki, a staff writer at The New Yorker and the author of ''Wisdom of Crowds''; Gordon M. Bethune, former chief executive of Continental Airlines; and Leon Botstein, president of Bard College and principal conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra, discuss how to create more efficient workplaces and with them more prosperous businesses and governments.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) LATIN MUSIC USA Part 2 of this tribute during Hispanic Heritage Month chronicles the musical forms created by Mexican-Americans in California, Texas and the rest of the Southwest during the second half of the 20th century and examines their impact in the struggle for Chicano civil rights. Jimmy Smits hosts.
 9 P.M. (Fox) LIE TO ME A man (Garret Dillahunt) suspected of killing his wife goes to extremes to prove his innocence to the Lightman Group and puts the team members' lives in danger.
 9 P.M. (IFC) MONTY PYTHON: ALMOST THE TRUTH (THE LAWYER'S CUT) Part 2 of this six-hour documentary series starring the five living members of this British comedy troupe -- Michael Palin, John Cleese, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam and Eric Idle -- explores the early struggle of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus,'' the BBC sketch-comedy show, and its eventual successes. Russell Brand and Seth Green weigh in. IFC's ''Python-a-Thon'' continues with ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' (1975), above, at 10 and an episode of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' at 11:30.
 10 P.M. (A&E) EXTREME PARANORMAL This first installment in a two-night program follows three ''paranormal explorers'' as they seek the truth by angering spirits and just begging them to attack -- even if it means shedding their own blood. Their first stop: the New Mexico State Penitentiary, where 33 inmates were slaughtered, burned and tortured in a 1980 prison riot, leaving their souls, some say, trapped inside. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (71%); WATER SPORTS (71%); ATHLETES (71%); WATER POLO (71%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (62%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (62%); MUSIC (62%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (61%); MUSIC GENRES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: HUGH LAURIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



545 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: From Foreclosure to the Car to a Shelter Bed

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
The first night after she surrendered her house to foreclosure, Sheri West endured the darkness in her Hyundai sedan. She parked in her old driveway, with her flower-print dresses and hats piled in boxes on the back seat, and three cherished houseplants on the floor. She used her backyard as a restroom.
 The second night, she stayed with a friend, and so it continued for more than a year: Ms. West -- mother of three grown children, grandmother to six and great-grandmother to one -- passed months on the couches of friends and relatives, and in the front seat of her car.
 But this fall, she exhausted all options. She had once owned and overseen a group home for homeless people. Now, she succumbed to that status herself, checking in to a shelter. 
 ''No one could have told me that in a million years: I'd wake up in a homeless shelter,'' she said. ''I had a house for homeless people. Now, I'm homeless.''
 Growing numbers of Americans who have lost houses to foreclosure are landing in homeless shelters, according to social service groups and a recent report by a coalition of housing advocates.
 Only three years ago, foreclosure was rarely a factor in how people became homeless. But among the homeless people that social service agencies have helped over the last year, an average of 10 percent lost homes to foreclosure, according to ''Foreclosure to Homelessness 2009,'' a survey produced by the National Coalition for the Homeless and six other advocacy groups. 
 In the Midwest, foreclosure played a role for 15 percent of newly homeless people, according to the survey, reflecting soaring rates of unemployment -- Ohio's reached 10.8 percent in August -- and aggressive lending to people with damaged credit. 
 At a shelter for women and children run by the West Side Catholic Center in Cleveland, where Ms. West now lives, foreclosure accounted for zero arrivals in 2007, the center's executive director, Gerald Skoch, said. Last year, two cases emerged. This year, the number has already reached four.
 Similar increases have been reported at shelters in California, Michigan and Florida, where a combination of joblessness and the real estate bust have generated unusually severe rates of foreclosure.
 Most people who become homeless because of foreclosure had been low-income renters whose landlords stopped making their mortgage payments, leaving them scrambling for new housing with little notice and scant savings, according to the survey and interviews with shelters. 
 But in recent months, there has been a visible increase in the number of former homeowners showing up in shelters. Like Ms. West, most have landed there after months trying to stave off that fate.
 ''These families never needed help before,'' said Larry Haynes, executive director of Mercy House in Santa Ana, Calif. ''They haven't a clue about where to go, and they have all sorts of humiliation issues. They don't even know what to say, what to ask for.'' 
 Many start off camping out in cars, particularly in warmer places.
 ''We've seen a rise in people sleeping in their cars,'' said Rick Cole, city manager in Ventura, Calif., which recently allowed car-camping in designated areas. ''Some are foreclosed former homeowners, and some couldn't afford their rent. People will give up their house before they give up their car.''
 Those with means try to rent homes or apartments, though tainted credit often makes that impossible. Growing numbers are landing in motels that rent by the week, cramming whole families into single rooms and using hot plates as kitchens. But as unemployment expands, many are losing the wherewithal to remain. 
 Many take refuge with families and friends, occupying extra bedrooms, basements and attics. But such hospitality rarely lasts. 
 So, as lean times endure and paychecks disappear, homeless shelters are absorbing those who have run out of alternatives.
 For Ms. West, whose youthful appearance belies her age, in her mid-50s, the nights spent on couches in other people's homes were uncomfortably familiar. She grew up an only child in a housing project in Neptune, N.J., where her mother slept in the lone bedroom, and she occupied a pullout sofa in the living room.
 ''I've always had this dream of doing better,'' she said. ''I always wanted to own my own house.''
 She realized that dream shortly after arriving in Cleveland with her husband and two children in the early 1990s. At first, they rented. But one fall afternoon, Ms. West found herself on a block lined with leafy trees in Mount Pleasant, a neighborhood east of the Cuyahoga River that was a magnet for middle-class black families like hers. Red brick homes with wooden porches sat on ample lots. Public schools were a few blocks away. 
 When she saw an ad in the Sunday paper offering a house on that very block, she bought it for $45,000; for the $9,000 down payment she used the savings her mother had left her when she died. She and her husband assumed the mortgage from the previous owner, with affordable payments of less than $400 a month.
 Ms. West then had a job as a maintenance worker at an apartment complex for about $9 an hour. Her husband earned about $10 an hour as a truck driver. As the years passed, they added shrubbery to the front yard and photos of children's birthday parties to the walls.
 ''I thought that was going to be my house,'' she said.
 She tapped her inheritance to buy another house on nearby Union Street, paying $15,000 in cash for a light-blue, vinyl-sided A-frame. She turned the house into a home for five homeless people. She did their laundry, reminded them to take their medications and cooked meals, while collecting payments of up to $750 a person each month from the agencies that placed them.
 Over the years, Ms. West and her husband spent more than they earned. They used credit cards to finance restaurant meals. They bought a new S.U.V.
 At the group home, Ms. West's compensation slipped as the state limited benefit payments. Yet every month brought the same thicket of bills -- water, electricity, gas, plus food for the people under her charge.
 In 2001, Ms. West and her husband took out a $67,000 mortgage on the Union Street house -- which had increased considerably in value -- to refinance high-interest debts, assuming payments of nearly $700 a month.
 Two years later, her husband left her.
 ''It just took the life out me,'' she said. ''I was in a very bad state, a very depressed situation. Things just kind of went downhill. I just didn't care anymore.''
 By 2005, she was broke. She sold the brick house to her cousin, disbanded the group home and moved in. She paid what bills she could through temporary jobs as a signature collector for petition drives. But as many months passed without work, the bills piled up past due.
 By the next year, terse letters were coming from the mortgage company -- notices of delinquency, then threats of foreclosure. Much of the neighborhood was in a similar state. Broken windows sat unrepaired at a two-story apartment block across the street, where tattered curtains flapped in the breeze. The city boarded up abandoned homes to deter vagrants, drug addicts and prostitutes.
 Ms. West wrote to her mortgage company, seeking lower payments. But with tainted credit and no full-time job, she was not a candidate for a deal. Fliers beckoned with relief as companies offered to negotiate with her lender for lower payments. But when she called, the companies demanded upfront payments as high as $500.
 ''I told them, 'if I had that money, I wouldn't be going into foreclosure,' '' she said.
 In the spring of 2008, Ms. West accepted an offer from the mortgage company: move out, hand over the keys and collect $2,500. She sold what furniture she could and put the rest on the street -- tables, beds, a couch.
 Her uncle had said she could stay with him for a while. But when she called him to say she was on the way, he told her that his girlfriend was uncomfortable with the arrangement. Ms. West's daughter was in a cramped rented house with her boyfriend and her two children. Her son was in a rooming house.
 So Ms. West, a stylish woman with a penchant for shiny lipstick and glittering jewelry, wound up camping in her car. She listened to the radio to drown out the voices of prostitutes trawling the street. She meditated. (''Just blank out everything in your mind,'' she said. ''Just go to a place that's peaceful, like a beach.'') She prayed.
 ''It was scary,'' she said. ''Here I am, alone, and I don't have nowhere to go.''
 The next day, she moved in with a friend, remaining there for about three months. For several more months, she stayed with the cousin who had bought her old brick house and was living there with her husband and seven children. Toys lay scattered across the floor. The walls vibrated with music, television and the sounds of children. She lay awake on the couch, a vagabond in the one place that had once felt so solid.
 ''I was losing my mind,'' she said.
 She was grateful to be inside -- particularly during the Cleveland winter -- yet never comfortable or stable enough to plan beyond the next day.
 ''You know in the back of your mind that people don't really want you there,'' she said.
 Sometimes, she lived out of her car, spending days at the public library, where she washed up in the restroom and used a computer to scan meager job listings.
 Finally, a woman she met on the street took her in and helped her formulate a recovery plan. She signed up for food stamps. She enrolled at a community college in a three-month, state-financed training program that would give her a certificate for an entry-level job in biotechnology, putting her in position to earn as much as $16 an hour.
 In September, she got a bed at the homeless shelter, reluctantly accepting that she needed her own space to re-establish her life.
 ''I never wanted to go to the shelter because of the stigma,'' she said. ''I'm a very independent person. I felt like I got myself into this situation, and I've got to get myself out. But I knew I couldn't just keep going back and forth and staying with these people and not moving forward with my life.''
 She sleeps in a twin bed with a flower-print duvet, in a small room painted lavender. Her plants line the windowsill. She keeps to herself, reading motivational books, as she prepares to start classes next month. 
 She is working again, taking care of senior citizens in their homes part time, and saving money. 
 By December, she will exhaust the shelter's 90-day limit, so she is hurrying to line up a house to rent while arranging a subsidy through the West Side Catholic Center.
 She is still shaken by the past and anxious about the future, but she is again looking ahead.
 ''I do want to eventually own a house again,'' she said. ''That's the American dream. That's what everybody wants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheri West operated a shelter for homeless people, but last year she lost her home in Cleveland and had to sleep in her car.(A1)
 Sheri West in the West Side Catholic Center. By December, she will exhaust its 90-day limit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (93%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



546 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Diverse Sources Pour Cash Into Taliban's War Chest

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Carlotta Gall contributed reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Taliban in Afghanistan are running a sophisticated financial network to pay for their insurgent operations, raising hundreds of millions of dollars from the illicit drug trade, kidnappings, extortion and foreign donations that American officials say they are struggling to cut off. 
 In Afghanistan, the Taliban have imposed an elaborate system to tax the cultivation, processing and shipment of opium, as well as other crops like wheat grown in the territory they control, American and Afghan officials say. In the Middle East, Taliban leaders have sent fund-raisers to Arab countries to keep the insurgency's coffers brimming with cash. 
 Estimates of the Taliban's annual revenue vary widely. Proceeds from the illicit drug trade alone range from $70 million to $400 million a year, according to Pentagon and United Nations officials. By diversifying their revenue stream beyond opium, the Taliban are frustrating American and NATO efforts to weaken the insurgency by cutting off its economic lifelines, the officials say. 
 Despite efforts by the United States and its allies in the last year to cripple the Taliban's financing, using the military and intelligence, American officials acknowledge they barely made a dent. 
 ''I don't believe we can significantly alter their effectiveness by cutting off their money right now,'' said Representative Adam Smith, a Washington State Democrat on the House Intelligence and Armed Services Committees who traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan last month. ''I'm not saying we shouldn't try. It's just bigger and more complex than we can effectively stop.'' 
 The Taliban's ability to raise money complicates the Obama administration's decision to deploy more United States troops to Afghanistan. It is unclear, for example, whether the deployment of 10,000 Marines over the summer to Helmand Province, the heart of the opium production, will have a sustaining impact on the insurgency's cash flow. And American officials are debating whether cracking down on the drug trade will anger farmers dependent on it for their livelihood.
 But even if the United States and its allies were able to stanch the money flow, it is not clear how much impact it would have. It does not cost much to train, equip and pay for the insurgency in impoverished Afghanistan -- fighters typically earn $200 to $500 a month -- and to bribe local Afghan security and government officials. 
 ''Their operations are so inexpensive that they can be continued indefinitely even with locally generated resources such as small businesses and donations,'' said Kenneth Katzman, a Middle East specialist at the Congressional Research Service and a former analyst of the region at the C.I.A.
 American officials say that they have been surprised to learn in recent months that foreign donations, rather than opium, are the single largest source of cash for the Taliban. 
 ''In the past there was a kind of a feeling that the money all came from drugs in Afghanistan,'' Richard C. Holbrooke, the administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, said in June. ''That is simply not true.'' 
 Supporting this view, in his Aug. 30 strategic assessment, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the top NATO commander in Afghanistan, voiced skepticism that clamping down on the opium trade would crimp the Taliban's overall finances. 
 ''Eliminating insurgent access to narco-profits -- even if possible, and while disruptive -- would not destroy their ability to operate so long as other funding sources remained intact,'' General McChrystal said. 
 The C.I.A. recently estimated in a classified report that Taliban leaders and their associates had received $106 million in the past year from donors outside Afghanistan, a figure first reported last month by The Washington Post. Private citizens from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Iran and some Persian Gulf nations are the largest individual contributors, an American counterterrorism official said. 
 Top American intelligence officials and diplomats say there is no evidence so far that the governments of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates or other Persian Gulf states are providing direct aid to the Afghan insurgency. But American intelligence officials say they suspect that Pakistani intelligence operatives continue to give some financial aid to the Afghan Taliban, a practice the Pakistani government denies. 
 The United States Treasury Department and the United Nations have for years maintained financial blacklists of those suspected of being donors to the Taliban and Al Qaeda. But counterterrorism officials say donors have become savvier about disguising their contributions to avoid detection. 
 ''The sanctions have worked to a certain extent but obviously not to the extent of being able to cut off all funds,'' said Richard Barrett, a former British intelligence officer now monitoring Al Qaeda and the Taliban for the United Nations. 
 Still, drugs play an important role. Afghanistan produces more opium than any other country in the world, and the Taliban are widely believed to make money at virtually every stage of the trade.
 ''It extorts funds from those involved in the heroin trade by demanding 'protection' payments from poppy farmers, drug lab operators and the smugglers who transport the chemicals into, and the heroin out of, the country,'' David S. Cohen, an assistant secretary at the Treasury Department responsible for combating terrorist financing, said in a speech in Washington last week. 
 The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, in a report issued in August, said that Taliban commanders charged poppy farmers a 10 percent tax, and that Taliban fighters supplemented their pay by working in the poppy fields during harvest. The biggest source of drug money for the Taliban is regular payments made by drug traffickers to the Taliban leadership, based in the Pakistani border city of Quetta, according to the report. 
 Counterterrorism experts say the relationship of the insurgents to drug trafficking is shifting in an ominous direction. A United Nations report issued in August said that some opium-trafficking guerrillas had secretly stockpiled more than 10,000 tons of illegal opium -- worth billions of dollars and enough to satisfy at least two years of world demand. The large stockpiles could bolster the insurgency's war chest and further undercut the ability of NATO military operations to curb the flow of drug money to the Taliban. 
 A third major source of financing for the Taliban is criminal activity, including kidnappings and protection payments from legitimate businesses seeking to operate in Taliban-controlled territory, American authorities say. 
 The United States has created two new entities aimed at disrupting the trafficking networks and illicit financing. One group, the Afghan Threat Finance Cell, is located at Bagram Air Base, north of Kabul. The second group, the Illicit Finance Task Force based in Washington, also aims to identify and disrupt the financial networks supporting terrorists and narcotics traffickers in the region. 
 American officials say they are working closely with the Afghan government to dry up the Taliban financing, but as one senior American military officer in Afghanistan put it last week, ''I won't overstate the progress.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A United States Army soldier and a Marine searched the home and compound of an Afghan farmer in Khan Neshin. American officials are debating whether cracking down on the drug trade will anger farmers dependent on it for their livelihood.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT NICKELSBERG/GETTY IMAGES, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A9) CHART: Skimming Off the Top, and Bottom: How the Taliban receive money from the drug trade.: AT THE FARM
AT THE LAB
ON THE ROAD
 AT THE TOP (Source: Senate Foreign Relations Committee)(A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); OPIUM (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BRIBERY (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); ADAM SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



547 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: When Irish Ads Are Dialing (for Dollars)

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The list of countries whose economies have been laid low in the last couple of years reads like a roster of members of the United Nations. Among the hardest hit is Ireland, which since spring 2008 has been suffering through one of the worst real-estate busts in the world along with rapidly rising unemployment.
 Ireland's woes represent a dramatic downturn from the days when the so-called Celtic Tiger was the envy of Europe. Today, the country's strained financial circumstances make it more of a stray cat than a fierce jungle beast. 
 So the timing seems right for advertising from the Irish governmental organization responsible for encouraging foreign investment, the Industrial Development Agency (Ireland), known as I.D.A. Ireland. The campaign, which is being called the largest ever from the agency, is now under way in television, print, online and out-of-home media. 
 ''We would have probably come out with a campaign early this year,'' says Trevor Holmes, head of corporate communications for the agency, whose duties include marketing services, but to introduce something then ''wouldn't have had any resonance.''
 ''Now's the time to try to tell our story on our terms,'' he adds, ''instead of letting others tell our story on their terms.''
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at $3.2 million, carries the theme ''Ireland. Innovation comes naturally.'' The ads are being created by McConnells in Dublin. Media planning and buying in the United States are being handled by BCA Marketing Communications in New York.
 And there is a public relations effort by the New York office of Padilla Speer Beardsley, a member of the Worldcom Public Relations Group.
 Previous campaigns to promote outside investment in the Irish economy were centered on the country's people. Themes included ''The young Europeans: Hire them before they hire you,'' ''People are to Ireland as Champagne is to France'' and ''People are to Ireland as oil is to Texas.''
 That pitch, advocating ''talented individuals available for hire,'' Mr. Holmes says, subsequently evolved to the idea of a ''knowledge economy'' and then to ''the Irish mind'' and its qualities of ''creativity, open-mindedness and curiosity'' as part of an initiative to establish ''what is unique about the Irish, what can't people copy about the Irish.''
 The new campaign still beats the drum for the quality of the Irish work force, he adds, but expands into ''branding Ireland as an innovation hub.''
 The campaign uses a device of a black board -- or, in this instance, an appropriately colored green board -- upon which is written in white chalk selling points about Ireland as a place for business to thrive. The illustrations appear to be random but in the end it becomes clear they form maps of Ireland.
 ''Innovation,'' begins the announcer in a 30-second television commercial, speaking in an Irish-accented voice. ''What it isn't is something that happens step by predictable step. It doesn't always stop at the lights. Sometimes it goes backwards to go forwards. It goes up blind alleys. It zigs and it zags.''
 ''It wiggles and then, and then it lets rip,'' the announcer continues. ''Your job is simple, just give it the right environment.''
 At that point, the words of the campaign theme appear on the green board, followed by the address of the agency's Web site and the agency's logo.
 A 15-second TV commercial is more succinct. ''The right environment for your company is a place where innovation comes naturally,'' the announcer declares. ''Visit http://www.idaireland.com.''
 The print ads make similar points. ''New thinking is not about the dollars you invest,'' one ad asserts. ''It's about the people you invest in.'' The map of Ireland in the ad is composed of smiley faces.
 A second print ad says: ''Clean energy. Green technology. And fresh thinking. Why businesses are putting down roots in Ireland.'' The map in the ad is made up of the roots of a tree.
 Two other print ads offer examples of companies that have invested in Ireland. ''Facebook found a space for people who think in a certain way,'' the headline of one ad proclaims. It's called Ireland.'' In that ad, the map is also composed of smiley faces.
 Google gets a shout-out in the other ad, which carries this headline: ''Google googled the planet for the perfect location for their business. They came up with Ireland.'' The map in the ad is made up of doodles and scribbles.
 ''We are right across the road from the Google European headquarters,'' says Laurence Keogh, creative director and copywriter at McConnells. ''We can peer in the windows and see this privileged class of innovators in Ireland doing their thing.''
 Cutting-edge companies like Google and Facebook are attracted to Ireland, says Tim Mudie, the creative director and art director at McConnells who is collaiborating with Mr. Keogh on the campaign, because of qualities in the Irish like ''a bit of the gift of gab,'' which is manifested in people who ''question stuff and ask, 'Can it be better?' ''
 Mr. Keogh joins in. Something missing in campaigns from countries like Britain and Singapore as they compete against Ireland for foreign investment is ''the creative and slightly subversive side of innovation,'' he says, citing names like James Joyce, Oscar Wilde and Charles Parsons; the latter is the inventor of the steam turbine whose ancestral home was in Ireland.
 ''It must be something in the water,'' Mr. Keogh says, laughing.
 The idea of the green board grew from some creative noodling around by Mr. Mudie, who describes himself as ''sort of a bit of a pen-and-paper man.'' He made stencil maps of Ireland that came out as white on black, looking like ''they were drawn on a black board,'' he recalls.
 That led to thoughts about ''the famous picture of Einstein at a blackboard,'' Mr. Mudie says, which triggered images of ''a group of people, trying to think of something, using a chalkboard because you can stand back and take a look at'' what is written.
 All that inspired the concept of a green board, at which time ''I ran off to Laurence with it,'' he adds.
 Mr. Keogh says he liked Mr. Mudie's musings because they suggested something ''about innovation that Ireland could own.''
 Campaigns from other countries wooing foreign investment imply that ''if you put the right people and money in place, it's a mechanical process, just guaranteed to happen,'' Mr. Keogh says. ''But that's not true; it's a creative process.''
 ''And Irish creativity is about bending and breaking the rules,'' he adds, ''kicking against the boundaries, not hierarchical.''
 As for the notion of the Celtic Tiger, ''we ran from the tiger as fast as we could,'' Mr. Keogh says. Mr. Mudie says he and Mr. Keogh wanted to avoid ''the type of advertising where you're showing off.''
 By contrast, the campaign ''makes the case'' that ''this is what Ireland has to offer,'' he adds, ''not pat yourselves on the back.''
 The TV commercials are appearing on the Bloomberg and CNBC cable channels. The print and online ads are running in business magazines and newspapers, and their related Web sites, like The Economist, Fortune, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.
 There are also materials like case studies on a section of the agency's Web site.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (75%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%)

COMPANY: MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING INC (54%); WORLDCOM PUBLIC RELATIONS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009



548 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Nokia Struggles to Regain Market Share in the U.S.

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Nokia, the Finnish company that is the world's biggest maker of mobile phones, is an undisputed powerhouse in Europe, Asia and Latin America, with market shares regularly topping 30 percent.
 But in the United States, Nokia's signal has faded. As recently as March 2002, it led the American market with a 35 percent share. By last year, though, it slipped to 10 percent and by June of this year -- the most recent figure available -- Nokia's share was only 7 percent. 
 Now the company is struggling to make amends in America, and its comeback effort has started to make some headway. And yet, going into the crucial Christmas shopping season in the United States, Nokia does not have a strong offering for the American smartphone market, the only part of the mobile industry that is growing. Three years after Apple introduced the iPhone, Nokia still has no alternative. 
 Many other players are struggling to compete with the iPhone, too. But because of a decade of mistakes, Nokia's product line in the United States has also been surpassed by LG, Motorola, Samsung and Research In Motion. 
 Among its biggest blunders, analysts and former Nokia executives say, the company failed to design many of its phones to the tastes of American consumers, instead mass producing devices for the global market to save on production costs.
 Nokia did not anticipate changes in American consumer tastes, like flip phones and touch screens, said Neil Mawston, an analyst in London with Strategy Analytics. More crucially, perhaps, it also based its models on a European communications standard called GSM when roughly half the United States market -- including the customers of Verizon Wireless and Sprint Nextel -- uses the CDMA format.
 ''Nokia, at the height of its success, decided not to adapt its phones for the U.S. market. That was a mistake,'' said Ari Hakkarainen, a Nokia business development executive from 1999 to 2007. ''They are still trying to recover from this.''
 An executive at a North American network operator, who declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly, summed it up: ''The attitude at Nokia was basically: 'Here is a phone. Do you want it?' Nokia wouldn't play by the rules here, and they have paid a price.''
 Nokia must also contend with a global economic slowdown that has hurt its sales and earnings. Last week, Nokia reported a third-quarter loss of $1.36 billion as sales fell 20 percent globally -- and 25 percent in North America -- from a year earlier.
 Nokia has recently revamped its United States operations to collaborate more closely with the major American operators -- AT&T Mobility, AT&T's wireless unit, Verizon, T-Mobile USA and Sprint Nextel. Together, they control 96 percent of United States sales of mobile devices, according to the International Data Corporation, a research firm.
 The strategy is beginning to show results: AT&T this year will begin billing customers who use Nokia services branded as Ovi. Those customers will no longer receive a second bill from Nokia. And in Canada, the network leader, Rogers Communications, is making it easier to access Ovi Maps and N-Gage game services on two Nokia models.
 Starting in mid-November at the Best Buy retail chain, Nokia will sell a netbook, the Nokia Booklet 3G, which is a model for its new collaborative strategy. The $300 minilaptop will come with a $60 monthly contract at AT&T Mobility and run on a Microsoft Windows 7 operating system. 
 ''Nokia's mobile device leadership, together with AT&T's mobile broadband network leadership, Best Buy's retail reach and Windows 7, is a very strong lineup,'' Microsoft's chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, said last week.
 But some industry executives say Nokia faces a battle to regain its lost stature. The business -- and cellphones -- were simpler when Nokia overtook Motorola to climb to the top of the American market in 2000. And Apple, Research In Motion and Google were not yet in the cellphone business.
 ''They claim they get it and understand the U.S. market,'' said Ramon Llamas, a senior analyst at IDC in Framingham, Mass. ''It's the story we have heard for the past couple of years. But the execution still is not there.''
 In Europe, a competitive marketplace with more than 230 operators, Nokia could always find one or more operators in every domestic market willing to sell its portfolio of phones.
 But in the United States, where a small number of operators rule most of the market, the network companies can command design changes to promote and sell their own wireless services. They place their own brand names on every model they sell and make sure their revenue-raising wireless services are prominently displayed and easy to use.
 In March 2007, Nokia appointed an American, Mark Louison, president of the company's North American unit and gave him a seat on Nokia's global management board. Mr. Louison, in an interview, said Nokia recognized that its former strategy had not worked in North America and was now busy laying the groundwork for long-term success.
 Under Mr. Louison, Nokia has set up liaison offices in Atlanta, Dallas, Seattle and Parsippany, N.J. -- cities where the top American operators have big business units. Nokia also has an office in Toronto near Rogers Communications.
 And Nokia has struck potentially important deals over the last year. One was with Qualcomm, the biggest maker of mobile phone chips for CDMA devices in the United States. The other was with Microsoft to design Windows Office Mobile software applications for phones that use Nokia's Symbian operating system.
 Nokia has based its global chief financial officer, Rick Simonson, at its United States headquarters in White Plains, which has 350 people. He will head Nokia's cellphone business that is other than smartphones. Also based there is Nokia's global chief development officer, Mary McDowell. 
 ''In the past, we had a one-size-fits-all mentality that worked well on a global basis but did not help us in this market,'' Mr. Louison said. ''That has changed now, and there is a recognition within the company that we have had to change our attitude about how we approach this market.''
 The migration of wireless technology to higher-speed networks that are based on the GSM standard used by Nokia should also help the Finnish company sell phones. The company's decision to convert Symbian to an open-source software could also help spread its presence on smartphones.
 ''Nokia is about open systems, big markets, taking the products to the masses,'' Mr. Louison said. ''The smartphone business has grown very quickly, and most of the solutions out there are closed systems.''
 After Nokia said it would make Symbian open source, AT&T Mobility joined Symbian's board. ''Everything you see us doing,'' Mr. Louison said, ''is to build the broad set of capabilities to take us broader and deeper into the U.S. market.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Louison, president of Nokia's North American unit, says the company is laying the groundwork for long-term success. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (78%); RETAIL SALES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (59%); CHRISTMAS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (94%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (85%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (50%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (94%); NOK1V (BIT) (94%); NOK (NYSE) (94%); S (NYSE) (85%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (88%); FINLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



549 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: When Keeping Quiet May Be Just the Right Thing to Do

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Lawrence B. Lindsey lost his job as director of the National Economic Council in part for excessive public candor. 
 Lawrence H. Summers, its current director, will not be making that mistake.
Mr. Lindsey told a reporter in 2002 that the Iraq war could cost $200 billion at a time when President George W. Bush's White House wanted to minimize its costs. When Mr. Summers was asked in an interview last week about the cost of the war in Afghanistan, he would not go anywhere near an answer.
 ''That's an ambitious attempt,'' he replied with a hint of a smile. ''I'm sure when the president has made a set of decisions, laid out a policy, his Defense Department, his budget office will speak about what its consequences will be. No one will muzzle them.'' 
 His wariness is not hard to understand. A provocative rumination about environmental policy initially damaged his standing in the Clinton administration; blunt talk about gender differences cost Mr. Summers his job as president of Harvard University in 2006 after a media firestorm. Today he is among the most publicly circumspect of all top Obama administration officials. ''Larry learns very rapidly,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute and a fellow of the Harvard Corporation.
 A 'Political Wise Man'
 Many in Washington once envisioned this as the time Mr. Summers would be preparing to leave the administration for the chairmanship of the Federal Reserve. But President Obama chose instead to appoint Ben S. Bernanke to a second term.
 Mr. Summers takes pains not to display the irascibility that, along with brilliance, has long been his trademark. As he did with the budget director, Peter R. Orszag, on war costs, he defers to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner in addressing the recent decline in the value of the dollar.
 ''Secretary Geithner's often spoken for the administration saying that a strong dollar is in our interest,'' Mr. Summers said, referring to his onetime protege when he held the Treasury job under President Bill Clinton in the 1990s. ''What's really crucial is that we strengthen the fundamentals of the economy.''
 It is a measure of Mr. Summers's evolution that Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, a former economic adviser to President Bush and to John McCain, sees him as the ''political wise man'' on Mr. Obama's team. Neither Mr. Orszag nor Mr. Geithner, nor Christina D. Romer, head of the Council of Economic Advisers, can match his experience at the top level of Democratic political economics.
 That experience has reassured Wall Street as a source of stability and centrism. Inside the White House, it has led Mr. Summers to act as a brake on the spending ambitions of some colleagues who lean farther to the left.
 ''I see him as a moderating influence,'' said Mr. Reischauer, who led the Congressional Budget office when Mr. Summers served in the Clinton administration. ''He's been trying to chart a course between fiscal responsibility and unavoidable stimulus for an ailing economy.''
 Moderating Influence
 That moderating influence is evident in Mr. Summers's defense of the administration's financial regulation proposal. Notwithstanding a populist backlash against lavish Wall Street pay and bonuses, the administration's proposal avoids the dollar limits on the pay of financial executives favored by some European governments.
 ''We've got a market system,'' said Mr. Summers, who gained a participant's familiarity with that system in earning millions for part-time work at a hedge fund after leaving Harvard. ''Once firms free themselves from the need to rely on government finance, there doesn't need to be, shouldn't be, limits on compensation. What there should be is requirements on the form and structure of compensation so that regulators are making sure you're not encouraging that excessive risk-taking.''
 ''The real question for our financial system isn't if some people succeed,'' he said. ''It's if some people succeed while others are left behind.'' 
 That's precisely the question facing the Obama administration as stock values rise while unemployment is at 9.8 percent and rising. Rather than promoting additional measures to spur hiring, Mr. Summers emphasized ''the real priority'' as distributing the rest of the $787 billion economic stimulus package already enacted, which he predicted ''will have very substantial job creation benefits.''
 ''We're in a very different place than we were nine months ago,'' he said. ''I think we're turning a corner, and as that corner is turned, I think you'll see recovery gather speed and you'll start to see the unemployment coming down.''
 That has not calmed political pressures among Democrats facing election next year for additional spending, perhaps on tax credits to increase hiring. Some administration colleagues see Mr. Summers as skeptical that such steps would prove cost effective. 
 When pressed, however, he declined to confirm that assessment. ''No, no, no, no,'' Mr. Summers shot back. ''That's not what I said. That's putting words in my mouth.
 ''I'm declining to make a judgment,'' he concluded. At least publicly. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, can be guarded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); US DOLLAR (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); URBAN INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (76%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



550 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 307 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include the Producer Price Index for September and housing starts for September (Tuesday); the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); the Conference Board's leading economic indicators (Thursday); and existing-home sales for September (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Apple, Boston Scientific, Gannett, Hasbro and Texas Instruments (Monday); Bank of New York Mellon, Biogen Idec, Blackrock, Caterpillar, Coca-Cola, DuPont, Lockheed Martin, Pfizer, SLM, State Street, UAL, UnitedHealth, United Technologies and Yahoo (Tuesday); Altria, AMR, Boeing, Continental Airlines, eBay, Eli Lilly, Morgan Stanley, Northrop Grumman, Pulte Homes, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo (Wednesday); 3M, AirTran, Alaska Air, Amazon.com, American Express, Amgen, AT&T, Bristol-Myers Squibb, CA, Capital One, Delta Air Lines, Dow Chemical, Eastman Chemical, EMC, Fifth Third Bancorp, JetBlue Airways, Kimberly-Clark, McDonald's, Merck, The New York Times, Novartis, Philip Morris International, Raytheon, Schering-Plough, United Parcel Service, US Airways and Xerox (Thursday); and Honeywell, Microsoft, Schlumberger and Whirlpool (Friday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Securities and Exchange Commission begins considering regulations to require greater disclosure about nonpublic trading entities (Wednesday). 
 The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on the state of the nation's housing market (Tuesday).
 FED REMARKS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks about Asia and the global financial crisis at the San Francisco Fed's Asia Economic Policy Conference in Santa Barbara, Calif. (Monday).
 Mr. Bernanke speaks about financial regulation and supervision at the Boston Fed's economic conference in Chatham, Mass. (Friday). 
 WINDOWS UPGRADE Microsoft introduces the Windows 7 operating system (Thursday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (83%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (72%); U S BANCORP (70%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (69%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (58%); BOEING CO (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); PULTEGROUP INC (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); PFIZER INC (57%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); NOVARTIS AG (57%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); AMGEN INC (56%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); FITB (NASDAQ) (83%); BK (NYSE) (83%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (72%); USB (NYSE) (70%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (69%); BSX (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); MO (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%); NVS (NYSE) (57%); NOVN (SWX) (57%); NOC (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); ALK (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); PMI (SWX) (56%); PM (PAR) (56%); PM (NYSE) (56%); KMB (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%); UPS (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



551 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Stumping With Mayor, Giuliani Stirs Old Fears

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Raising the specter of a return to higher crime and greater anxiety, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani warned on Sunday that New York could become a more dangerous city if Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is not re-elected in November.
 Mr. Giuliani did not mention Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic challenger, William C. Thompson Jr., by name. But during the first of two campaign events alongside Mr. Bloomberg, he said that not long ago many parts of the city were gripped by ''the fear of going out at night and walking the streets.'' 
 ''You know exactly what I'm talking about,'' Mr. Giuliani said at a breakfast sponsored by the Jewish Community Council in Borough Park, Brooklyn. ''This city could very easily be taken back in a very different direction -- it could very easily be taken back to the way it was with the wrong political leadership.''
 Mr. Giuliani made his blunt -- and to some minds, incendiary -- comments a day before Mr. Bloomberg, a two-term incumbent, was scheduled to be endorsed by the city's largest police officers' union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, according to two people told of the plans. It would be a big step in his quest to secure the strongest anticrime credentials in the mayor's race.
 The union has long had a fractious relationship with Mr. Bloomberg. It backed his opponent in 2001, Mark Green, and refused to endorse anyone in 2005. It has squabbled over pay and benefits during much of Mr. Bloomberg's eight years in office. It has even protested outside Mr. Bloomberg's town house. 
 But the mayor's relationship with the association began to improve last year when the city granted pay increases in the union's latest contract without demanding significant concessions.
 Mr. Giuliani's increasingly prominent role in the Bloomberg campaign -- he also marched with the mayor in the day's second event, the Howard Beach Columbus Day parade in Queens -- is not risk-free.
 Mr. Giuliani remains a polarizing figure in some neighborhoods, and he has become much more of a by-the-book Republican since leaving office; he has, for instance, said that President Obama has been much worse than he had expected. By contrast, Mr. Bloomberg, an independent who is running as a Republican, has repeatedly praised the president for his work on issues like health care.
 Indeed, when asked about Mr. Giuliani's remarks, Mr. Thompson's campaign tried to play up the partisan divide.
 ''This is a tired Republican campaign tactic -- scare people into voting by threatening their personal safety,'' said Anne Fenton, a spokeswoman for the Thompson campaign. ''It didn't work for Rudy Giuliani during his abysmal presidential bid, and it's not going to work for Mike Bloomberg this year. Bill Thompson is committed to public safety, not manipulating people and inciting unnecessary public fear.''
 City Councilman Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn, the Democrat who is likely to become the city's next public advocate, said he was appalled.
 ''Giuliani's comments verge on race-baiting,'' he said. ''Bloomberg should disavow those comments and show that he doesn't buy into that kind of rhetoric.''
 When asked later at a green jobs event in Red Hook, Brooklyn, whether he shared Mr. Giuliani's views, Mr. Bloomberg did not answer directly. Instead, he invoked Detroit as an example of where ''gains are always in danger of being turned around.'' 
 ''I think that was really because of economics as opposed to some other things,'' he said. ''But Detroit went from a city where it was a great city with lots of good-paying jobs to a city that's basically holding on for dear life.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani at the Jewish Community Council breakfast on Sunday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (54%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



552 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Obama Aides Go on TV To Criticize Wall Street

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Striking a populist tone, several of President Obama's leading advisers on Sunday issued stern warnings to Wall Street. They said big banks must not resist greater government oversight now that they have regained their financial footing through taxpayer financed bailouts.
 Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said Americans ''have a right to be frustrated and angry'' at reports that a year after the government used $700 billion to save major lending institutions from collapse, Wall Street appears poised to hand out another round of hefty bonuses. 
 Mr. Emanuel also scolded banks for turning around as soon as they became healthy and fighting against the regulations the president and his supporters in Congress deem necessary to head off the same kind of financial crisis in the future.
 ''The risks that they took, took the economy to a place, it was near a depression,'' Mr. Emanuel said in an appearance on ''State of the Union'' on CNN, referring to the financial institutions.
 ''They have a responsibility to be part of the solution, not being the obstacle.''
 David Axelrod, one of President Obama's closest advisers, called the bonuses and the lobbying ''offensive.''
 ''The most offensive thing is we haven't seen the kind of increase in lending that we should,'' he said on ''This Week'' on ABC.
 ''There are a lot of small businesses, creditworthy businesses around this country, who still can't get the capital they need to grow, which is important for our economy, and you've seen these same institutions spend tens of millions of dollars lobbying the Congress to try and stop financial regulatory reform.''
 Wall Street's bonuses are not new fodder for outrage. Resentment, however, has grown in recent months as relief for some business sectors has not stopped unemployment from rising.
 Valerie Jarrett, another close adviser to President Obama, said in an appearance on ''Meet the Press'' that while the bailout and stimulus packages of the last year had stopped the economy from sliding into a depression, ''the unemployment rate is still much too high.''
 ''The president will not be satisfied until every single American who wants to work has a job,'' she said. When asked what the administration was considering doing to stimulate job creation, Ms. Jarrett said all ideas were on the table. But when asked specifically whether the administration would support a second stimulus package, she said the full effects of the first recovery package had yet to be felt.
 ''We've only spent a little less than half of the money,'' she said, referring to the first stimulus package. 
 Describing unemployment as a ''lagging indicator,'' she added: ''Let's wait and see. Let's let the recovery bill do its job, and then we'll see.''
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, issued his own warnings to Wall Street on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC.
 ''Now, obviously, when you see these bonuses being paid out, it's a source of outrage in the country, and it should be. What are these people thinking about at these companies?'' he asked. 
 ''These firms on Wall Street need to understand that what they're doing by providing these bonuses, particularly when they received so much federal money, is an outrage,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



553 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: In Dollar's Fall, Upside For Exports

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Maia de la Baume contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As economists, pundits and politicians debate the reasons for the dollar's rapid fall, Robert Stevenson and his workers in downtown Buffalo, N.Y., watch the slide with glee. 
 Mr. Stevenson's family-owned company, Eastman Machine, has been making cutting tools for the textile industry for 120 years. A year ago, in the depths of the financial crisis, Mr. Stevenson had to lay off a dozen workers, but the dollar's almost 20 percent decline since March has made his goods much more competitive overseas. Next month, Mr. Stevenson hopes to sign a multimillion-dollar deal in Europe that could enable him to rehire his workers.
 ''This wouldn't have happened five years ago, or even two years ago,'' he said. ''Business conditions are still slow but the dollar has allowed us to be much more aggressive overseas.''
 The story of Eastman Machine is a small echo of the larger shifts accompanying the dollar's fastest drop in six years; last week the dollar neared $1.50 against the euro, compared with $1.25 in March. The weakness of the dollar, if sustained, could force American consumers to get used to paying more for many imported goods as well as trips to their favorite vacation spots. 
 But there is also an upside: a weak dollar could prove beneficial to the American economy by aiding long-suffering manufacturers, rebuilding a stronger industrial base and lifting exports even if it makes life harder for trading partners around the world, especially in Europe.
 ''As long as it doesn't crash, a gradual, orderly decline is healthy,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''The dollar went up 40 percent between 1995 and 2002, so this is a necessary rebalancing.''
 It is a highly charged political issue, and the sinking American currency has already spurred attacks on the Obama administration from Sarah Palin, the former Republican nominee for vice president, and others in her party who argue that a weaker dollar points to a weaker America. 
 ''We lose our position as the world leader if the dollar is no longer the currency of favor,'' said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate. He pointed out that he was critical of President George W. Bush for letting the dollar fall, too, ''but this administration is making things worse by its spending and deficit policies.'' 
 Most ominously, many foreign central banks are rethinking the dollar's status as the world's premier reserve currency, said Neil Mellor, a currency strategist at BNY Mellon Global Markets in London. That, in addition to domestic factors like historically low United States interest rates and a ballooning federal budget deficit, are worsening the dollar's downward movement.
 In addition, while the Obama administration maintains that it favors a strong dollar, it has shown no sign of taking any major steps to support the currency. 
 Whatever the politics, the economics are complex. Over the long term, a weaker dollar could narrow the long-running United States trade deficit, helping close the gap between exports and imports, as American products become more affordable overseas.
 But that comes at a price -- higher costs at home for imported goods as diverse as Italian suits, French wines and Japanese stereos and cameras, as well as more prosaic commodities like oil. The dollar's drop is a central factor in oil's recent rise back above $75 a barrel, which will mean higher gasoline prices.
 The dollar has moved sharply before. Most recently, it weakened in the summer of 2008, only to strengthen drastically after the collapse of Lehman Brothers a year ago sent investors worldwide fleeing to the relative security of American assets like Treasury bonds.
 Now, the political arguments over the dollar's trajectory are accompanied by a fierce debate among economists.
 ''Dollar weakness is a major problem for American jobs and living standards,'' said David Malpass, a longtime Wall Street economist who has been among the most outspoken critics of the dollar's decline.
 ''As the dollar devalues, we have less capital and purchasing power compared to the rest of the world, and there is an increasing risk of higher interest rates and inflation,'' Mr. Malpass said.
 But Mr. Bergsten argues the dollar is only now getting back to a fair valuation against other currencies if the United States is to continue to close its trade gap.
 With the recent drop, he said, the dollar is fairly valued against the euro but needs to ease 10 percent against Asian currencies like the Japanese yen to create a level playing field for American business.
 And for all the fluctuations against the dollar by major currencies, the dollar has not moved at all recently against the Chinese renminbi, which is managed by Beijing in ways that allow Chinese exporters to enjoy a weaker currency and gain market share worldwide. 
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, has consistently said the administration favors a strong dollar, but currency markets focus on the unlikely prospect of concrete action, like an interest rate increase. 
 ''The Obama administration may say they want a strong dollar,'' Mr. Mellor said. ''But everyone knows they haven't got the means to support it. The Federal Reserve can't raise rates, and the White House can't cut the budget deficit anytime soon.''
 If the dollar does keep falling and the euro keeps rising, it could increase trade tensions with Europe, especially big exporters like Germany, which have already been hard hit by the global economic slump.
 ''The strength of the euro is coming at absolutely the wrong time,'' said Jens Nagel, head of the international department of the German Exporters Association in Berlin. ''The U.S. is our biggest trading partner after the European Union, and it's a big blow to the recovery of auto companies and industrial exporters.''
 Mr. Mellor predicts the dollar will keep dropping, reaching $1.60 against the euro by early next year. And, there are signs that even much bigger companies than Eastman Machine are adapting.
 As the global economy recovers and international manufacturers ramp up output, they are giving priority to their more competitive plants, including those in the United States, said Pierre Dufour, senior executive vice president at Air Liquide, a French supplier of industrial gases to steelmakers, semiconductor firms, and other industrial giants worldwide.
 ''It has two sides, like it always does,'' said Carl Martin Welcker, owner of a machine tools maker, Schutte, in Cologne, Germany.
 ''On the one hand, it makes our machines significantly more expensive,'' said Mr. Welcker, whose equipment churns out 80 percent of the world's spark plugs. ''On the other hand, we're seeing international companies move production back to the U.S., which helps our sales there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The dollar has allowed us to be much more aggressive overseas,'' said Robert Stevenson, head of Eastman Machine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EURO (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); TEXTILES (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (81%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%)

PERSON: JON KYL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); SARAH PALIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



554 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRESCRIPTIONS MAKING SENSE OF THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: An Overhaul And a Separate Bill To Fix Medicare

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
''A.M.A. Opens Bid to Kill Medicare.'' 
 That was the blunt headline that appeared in The New York Times on Jan. 27, 1965, as Congress prepared to take up legislation to provide government health insurance to Americans 65 and over. 
 ''The American Medical Association has opened its 'national educational' campaign against medical care for the aged under social security,'' the article began. 
 And in a detail that seems almost quaint, the article noted that two of the major television networks, CBS and NBC, had refused to sell one-minute commercial slots to the doctors' group, citing the controversial nature of the issue. 
 The A.M.A. is now broadcasting a new television commercial about Medicare but with a different take: the doctors want to protect the program, and themselves, from steep cuts in payments. 
 But an effort to avert those cuts -- at a cost of nearly $250 billion over 10 years, in legislation separate from the big health care overhaul -- is raising uncomfortable questions for President Obama and for Democratic leaders in Congress who promised that revamping the health care system would not add to the nation's deficits. 
 In the new A.M.A. ad, a female voice-over says, ''For seniors, a doctor can mean everything -- independence, hope, security -- and Medicare makes it possible,'' as the screen shows gray-haired Americans in various happy settings with their doctors. 
 ''But every year Congress must make a temporary fix to the Medicare payment plan so seniors can keep their doctor and the care they depend on,'' the voice-over says. ''We need a permanent solution to protect Medicare and ensure seniors get the security and stability they have earned. Call your senators today. Ask them to pass S. 1776 to protect seniors' access to quality care.'' 
 S. 1776 is a Senate bill that would permanently adjust a Medicare payment formula that for years has threatened to impose steep annual cuts in the rates that doctors are paid. The formula, tracing to laws passed in 1989 and 1997, was devised to keep Medicare spending in check. 
 But in recent years Congress has stepped in with a patch, known on Capitol Hill as the annual ''doc fix,'' to prevent the cuts. Congressional Democrats have no plans to offset the cost of S. 1776, which is why they are eager to keep it separate from the broader health care legislation and avoid breaking the president's promise. 
 ''I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our deficits -- either now or in the future. Period,'' Mr. Obama said in his televised speech to Congress last month. Congressional Democrats insist that fixing the doctor payment formula should not count toward the cost of the big health care legislation, because it is a problem they inherited. What they have trouble explaining, though, is how the flawed formula is different from any of the zillion other entrenched problems in the health care system that the proposed overhaul aims to fix. 
 House Democrats included the formula adjustment in their health care bill. They said its cost should be counted separately. 
 Political Calculus
 Fixing the formula permanently is a top priority for the A.M.A., a powerful lobbying force. And with the health insurance industry attacking the overhaul legislation, Congressional Democrats and the White House are anxious to keep doctors from turning against them as well. 
 Last week, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, introduced S. 1776 as a stand-alone bill. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said it was a necessary step. ''The slate should be wiped clean,'' Mr. Reid said. ''Everyone understands we address these physician payment cuts every year.'' 
 Not all Democrats agree.
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, and chairman of the Budget Committee, has derided the stand-alone bill and said he would not vote for it. Mr. Conrad engaged in months of intense negotiations to make sure that the Senate Finance Committee version of the broad health care bill -- the one the committee approved last Tuesday -- could make a credible claim of fiscal responsibility. 
 The Finance Committee bill includes only a one-year patch of the doctor payment formula, with the cost offset by taxes and reduced spending elsewhere. Mr. Conrad has called for a commission to develop a longer-term solution to the doctor payment formula as well as other recurring budgetary problems. 
 But critics of the broader legislation, including many Republicans, say the dispute over how to fix the Medicare formula highlights a larger flaw in the health care overhaul. To pay for expanding health benefits to the uninsured, the broader legislation calls for other, potentially painful cuts to slow the steep growth in Medicare spending. 
 Skeptics note that the doctor payment formula was originally meant to be a cost-saving measure. Under the formula, Medicare is supposed to reduce payments to doctors whenever Medicare spending for their services exceeds a goal, the ''sustainable growth rate,'' linked to the nation's economic growth.
 Because Congress has repeatedly stepped in to prevent these cuts, the projected Medicare savings have not materialized. And critics predict that Congress will similarly balk when it comes to making the Medicare cuts promised in the current health care legislation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The American Medical Association is running ads in support of a bill that would avert cuts in Medicare payments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



555 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 OBAMA TO DECIDE ON TROOPS AFTER AFGHAN VOTE IS SETTLED
 The White House signaled that President Obama would postpone any decision on sending more troops to Afghanistan until disputed elections there have been settled and resulted in a government that can work with the United States. PAGE A9 
 PAKISTAN ENTERS TALIBAN DEN 
 On the second day of a campaign against militants in South Waziristan, Pakistani troops -- supported by F-16 fighter jets and helicopter gunships -- climbed higher and deeper into the mountainous heartland of the Taliban. PAGE A4 
 POLICE TRIAL IN SOUTH AFRICA
 Prosecutors charge that South Africa's longtime police commissioner, Jackie Selebi, traded sensitive information for designer clothes and cash. PAGE A4 
 HONDURANS LOOK TO A SAINT
 Many Hondurans have put their hopes on the country's patron saint since their president was deposed. PAGE A6 
 RIFT WIDENS IN ZIMBABWE
 A spokesman for President Robert Mugabe dismissed a boycott of cabinet meetings by Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai's party, which also asked regional leaders to help resolve disputes that endanger the coalition government. PAGE A6 
 National
 HEALTH CARE POSES TESTS FOR TWO TOP DEMOCRATS
 Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi face perhaps the stiffest test either has seen in trying to pass health care legislation. PAGE A14 
 AUDIT OF ENERGY STAR
 The Energy Department has concluded in an internal audit that it does not properly track whether manufacturers that give their appliances an Energy Star label have met the requirements. PAGE A14 
 New York 
 GIULIANI STOKES FEARS
 To Assist Bloomberg
 Raising the specter of a return to higher crime and greater anxiety, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani warned that New York could become a more dangerous city if Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is not re-elected in November. PAGE A21
 Business
 DOLLAR'S SLIDE BRINGS WOES, 
 But an Upside for Exports
 The weakness of the dollar could force American consumers to get used to paying more for many imported goods. But it could prove beneficial to the American economy by aiding long-suffering manufacturers and lifting exports even if it makes life harder for trading partners around the world. PAGE B1
 TURNING TO AFGHANISTAN
 No longer overshadowed by Iraq, Afghanistan is getting more attention from news organizations. News outlets have begun opening small bureaus there, and major newspapers have assigned more staff members there and in neighboring Pakistan. PAGE B1
 TWIST ON SOCIAL NETWORKING
 For many urbanites in their 20s and 30s, a fast-growing social networking service called Foursquare is becoming the tool of choice. Foursquare lets users ''check in'' with a cellphone at a bar, restaurant or art gallery, and alerts their friends to their location so they can drop by and say hello. PAGE B1
 CRITICISM FOR WALL STREET
 Several of President Obama's leading advisers issued stern warnings to Wall Street on Sunday's news shows. They said big banks must not resist greater government oversight now that they have regained their financial footing through taxpayer-financed bailouts. PAGE B3
 From Greeting Card to TV B6
 Vivendi's Shifting Identity B6
 Sports
 CONNECTICUT FOOTBALL PLAYER 
 Killed After Campus Brawl
 Jasper Howard, a University of Connecticut football player, was fatally stabbed outside the campus student center early Sunday morning after a brawl erupted after a dance. PAGE D7
 RODRIGUEZ'S BIG OCTOBER
 Alex Rodriguez, who has long been dogged by charges that he could not deliver when it most counted, is now taking over games at precisely the right moment with almost freakish regularity. His play has propelled the Yankees to five consecutive victories in the playoffs. PAGE D1
 A HEATED, LOPSIDED AFFAIR
 The Knicks easily defeated Maccabi Electra Tel Aviv, the powerhouse Israeli basketball team that visited Madison Square Garden for an exhibition contest, but not before Maccabi Coach Pini Gershon was ejected from the game after picking up a second technical foul. PAGE D4
 Arts
 A VIDEO GAME WORLD 
 Where Heavy Metal Reigns
 The protagonist in the video game Brutal Legend is voiced by Jack Black, and is charged with unleashing the power of rock music to free people oppressed by evil demons. Seth Schiesel writes that the game is a labor of love suffused with joy and enthusiasm for its subjects. PAGE C1
 REINVIGORATING AN EMPEROR
 Ciaran O'Reilly's production of ''Emperor Jones'' at the Irish Repertory Theater reinvigorates Eugene O'Neill's play and suffuses the short, brutal work with an ember of real magnificence, Ben Brantley writes in his review. PAGE C1
 R. KELLY AT THE GARDEN
 The R & B singer R. Kelly stopped at Madison Square Garden as part of his first tour since he was acquitted on child pornography charges last year. Review by Ben Ratliff. PAGE C1 
 Obituaries
 RODGER DOXSEY, 62
 The head of mission operations at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, he played a crucial below-the-decks role in keeping the Hubble Space Telescope flying and doing science in good times and bad for almost 20 years. PAGE B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (83%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); BOYCOTTS (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); AUDITS (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); US DOLLAR (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); HELICOPTERS (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



556 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye Baghdad, Hello Kabul

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
As the Obama administration debates whether to send more troops to Afghanistan, a squadron of journalists has already arrived. Many of them are transplants from America's other overseas war, in Iraq.
 ''It's like the Baghdad class of 2003 is now the Kabul class of 2009,'' Richard Engel of NBC said by telephone Saturday from Kabul, the Afghanistan capital.
 No longer overshadowed by Iraq, the ''forgotten war'' in Afghanistan, as news outlets had once called it, is suddenly very visible. Television networks have opened small bureaus, and major newspapers have assigned more staff members to the country, and its neighbor to the west, Pakistan. But with the media business under great strain, this war is being covered on a budget. 
 ''Afghanistan has always been the poor man's war,'' Lara Logan of CBS said in an interview; the news media, too, are spending less. 
 For the first time in years, Afghanistan has ''emerged as the top story'' for news organizations in the United States, the Project for Excellence in Journalism reported this month. 
 ''I think there's been an explosion of coverage,'' said Renee Montagne, the host of ''Morning Edition'' on National Public Radio, who spent a month in Afghanistan over the summer.
 Much of the current attention is centered on President Obama's formation of a new American strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. But events inside the country are earning more coverage now, as well. 
 A recent cover article in Time magazine was headlined ''The War Up Close.'' The issue featured a photo essay about infantrymen fighting the Afghan insurgency. In a nod to the invisible qualities of the war, Time wrote of the photographs, ''If it's true that sometimes we've let ourselves lose sight of Afghanistan, then as a start, let's look here.'' 
 Like Iraq, Afghanistan poses several vexing problems for journalists. Chief among them is safety: amid deteriorating security in the country and the ever-present threat of kidnapping, news organizations have increased precautions for their staff members in the field. 
 The security concerns are compounded by the country's complex political landscape and the famously tough terrain. 
 ''It's an extremely difficult place to operate out of,'' said Tony Maddox, an executive vice president and managing director of CNN International.
 One of the other problems is financial. Battered by the recession, some news organizations have made deep cuts to their already small foreign staffs, making it difficult to finance continuing coverage of wars in two theaters. While no one says news organizations are skimping on security measures, it is evident that they are trying to maintain flexible presences in Afghanistan.
 Afghanistan was being neglected long before the most recent round of media cutbacks, some journalists say. The main TV networks in the United States almost completely withdrew from Afghanistan as attention shifted to Iraq in 2003. Networks depended on producers in Afghanistan or Pakistan and rarely covered the simmering conflict. 
 The cable network with the largest international staff, CNN, relied mostly on stringers (a term for local freelance journalists) and visits from foreign correspondents, although Mr. Maddox said ''we were in there more than we were out of there.'' 
 The New York Times has based a correspondent in Afghanistan since November 2001. The Times and other newspapers have also maintained local workers in the country. The Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post say they now have correspondents assigned to Kabul and Islamabad, Pakistan.
 Compared with the bloody situation in Iraq, Afghanistan was a subject that ''rarely made news,'' said Mark Jurkowitz, the associate director of the Project for Excellence in Journalism, which produces a weekly news coverage index. 
 Using its sample of 55 print, online, television and radio outlets, the project found that in 2007, its first year of media monitoring, Afghanistan represented under 1 percent of all news coverage. In 2008, the 1 percent figure stayed true, ''despite the fact that it was the deadliest year ever for the U.S. in Afghanistan,'' Mr. Jurkowitz said. 
 He said that coverage of Afghanistan grew modestly for the first half of 2009, as Mr. Obama deployed more troops and talked about a shift in strategy. A more significant increase happened over the summer as the Afghan presidential election neared and the troop discussions ensued. Now the situation in the country is ''consistently among the top stories of the week,'' he added.
 Echoing the remarks of other correspondents, Mr. Engel said that the war in Afghanistan was ''ignored because of Iraq,'' but noted that for several years the conflict there ''was really in a holding pattern.'' 
 Few journalists were present to document the holding pattern. But they are there now. Mr. Engel, who was hired by NBC to cover the war in Iraq in 2003 and is now its chief foreign correspondent, said he plans to spend more than half of his days in Afghanistan in the coming year.
 CNN, the Fox News Channel and NBC each have a full-time correspondent in Kabul. CBS stations what it calls a digital journalist there. ABC bases a producer there and rotates correspondents in and out.
 In explaining their decisions to expand staffing in Afghanistan, news executives said they had taken their cues in part from the United States presidential election last year.
 Mr. Maddox noted that Afghanistan was a frequent subject during the campaign, and said the network decided 12 to 18 months ago that ''Afghanistan was heating up.'' 
 News organizations say they are applying lessons from Baghdad as they invest in Kabul. Critically, they are not replicating their fortresslike Baghdad compounds, which were costing millions each month to maintain. Much of those costs were because of painstaking security.
 ''Very quickly in Baghdad, everybody got into a situation where there was a major installation there that cost a huge amount of money to service. We don't want to get ourselves locked into that situation again,'' Mr. Maddox said. 
 Amid a troop drawdown in Iraq, some -- but not all -- media organizations have significantly downsized their Baghdad bureaus in the last two years.
 CNN's bureau in Kabul, Mr. Maddox said, is more ''light-footed.'' 
 Bruce Wallace, the foreign editor for The Los Angeles Times, used a similar term, ''lighter footprint,'' to describe that newspaper's bureau. ''There's still an ability to operate in a more low-profile way in Afghanistan,'' Mr. Wallace said. ''So far, it hasn't been essential to build a security structure the way we built them up in Iraq.''
 Mr. Maddox noted that much of the news in Afghanistan has happened in the outer provinces.
 ''You could tell the Iraq story pretty well from Baghdad,'' he said. But the Afghanistan story involves tribal regions, hostile territory and Pakistan.
 Security remains a foremost concern. While it has become physically easier to travel around the country -- Ms. Montagne recalled that commercial flights were not available to Kabul on her first visit in 2002 -- it has also become more risky to do so. Several journalists have been injured by roadside bombs this year.
 Ms. Logan, the chief foreign correspondent for CBS, said the dangers in Afghanistan are increasingly difficult to assess. ''Journalists are still trying to establish where the limits are,'' she said. 
 They also face the risk of kidnapping. David Rohde of The New York Times was kidnapped by the Taliban last November and held for seven months. Stephen Farrell,also of The Times, was held by the Taliban for four days in September. Mr. Farrell's translator, Sultan Munadi, was killed in the raid that freed him.
 News executives said it is hard to learn the level of interest in Afghanistan among viewers and readers. The week of Oct. 5, CBS scheduled three days of the ''CBS Evening News'' with a focus on Afghanistan. It devoted nearly all of the broadcasts to the conflict, and each day, the newscast's ratings dropped, from a 4.3 household rating on the first day to a 3.4 rating on the third day. When the newscast returned to its usual format on the fourth day, its household rating ticked back up to a 3.9. 
 The ratings drops were dispiriting to some staff. But Rick Kaplan, the executive producer of the ''CBS Evening News,'' said: ''It was never about ratings. It was always about responsibility.''
 He called the Afghanistan situation ''a vitally important story that will shape our history for years to come.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Monday about an increase in the number of journalists being assigned to Afghanistan referred incorrectly to Pakistan's location relative to Afghanistan. Pakistan is east of Afghanistan, not west. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lara Logan, a CBS correspondent, Richard Engel of NBC and Atia Abawi, an international correspondent for CNN, are among the journalists reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan, as TV networks and newspapers expand their coverage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CBS NEWS
NBC NEWS
 CNN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PUBLIC RADIO (65%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



557 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Media Giant Wrestles With a Shifting Identity

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Of the world's biggest media companies, the one that might seem in the best position to ride out the recession is Vivendi, whose headquarters in the shadow of the Arc de Triomphe oversees a sprawling empire of music, pay television, video game and mobile phone businesses.
 Unlike American media giants like Time Warner, the News Corporation, Walt Disney and Viacom, Vivendi has been largely insulated from the global advertising slump. It relies less on advertising than most media companies do, generating the vast majority of its revenue from the people who buy its products and use its services, who have remained steady customers during the downturn. 
 Yet Vivendi suffers from an identity crisis, with its management on a seemingly perpetual quest for reinvention, and it has yet to shake off reminders of Jean-Marie Messier, a professed master of the universe who transformed the company a decade ago from its origins as a dull water utility, using debt to go on an acquisition spree. 
 Vivendi has signaled that it wants to shed its remaining stake in NBC Universal, the American media company formed after Mr. Messier's profligacy resulted in disaster. That would clear the way for the formation of the next big American media giant: a potential fusion of NBC Universal with the cable company Comcast.
 Analysts say it would make sense for Vivendi to sell, but they question the company's strategy. Vivendi's current chief executive, Jean-Bernard Levy, eschews talk of ''convergence'' -- the idea, championed by Mr. Messier, that digital technology would break down distinctions between different media, benefiting conglomerates capable of delivering a cornucopia of entertainment to living rooms. 
 Without such cross-fertilization, analysts wonder, what is the logic of keeping Vivendi's various companies under one umbrella?
 ''Operationally they have done well, generally,'' said Conor O'Shea, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. ''But there is not really a satisfactory answer as to why they need a holding company.''
 Vivendi undid much of Mr. Messier's trophy deal -- the acquisition of Seagram, the parent of Universal Studios -- in 2004 by selling an 80 percent stake in the United States studio business to General Electric, which combined it with the NBC television network. 
 In a class-action lawsuit that made its way to a New York courtroom this month, Vivendi, Mr. Messier and another former company executive are accused by shareholders of making false and misleading statements about the company's financial position at the time. 
 Under Mr. Levy, who declined requests for an interview, Vivendi has revived its deal-making zeal. Mr. Levy, a low-key former government official who took over in 2005, three years after Mr. Messier was ousted, has completed a string of deals to bolster the company's existing businesses, which include the Universal Music Group, the world's largest record company; Activision Blizzard, the leader in video games; the French pay-TV company Canal Plus; and the French mobile operator SFR. 
 In 2005, Mr. Levy forged an agreement to combine Canal Plus with another French pay-TV provider, TPS, both of which were struggling, and the resulting company has become consistently profitable. A year later, Vivendi acquired BMG Music Publishing from Bertelsmann of Germany. In 2007, Vivendi combined its video game business with Activision, a rival. Vivendi has also moved to expand its presence in fast-growing areas like telecommunications in emerging markets.
 Indeed, Vivendi's headquarters probably sees more visits from investment bankers than pop stars, actors or gaming fans.
 ''Holding companies like Vivendi tend to be very active on the deal front,'' said Nick Bell, an analyst at Jefferies International in London. ''This is because the subsidiaries run themselves, so the justification for having an additional layer of costs rests on creating value through M&A.''
 Of its major subsidiaries, Vivendi owns 100 percent of only one of them, Universal Music. That limits the scope for cooperation, and any mention of sweeping ideas like convergence is taboo these days at Vivendi.
 ''Under Messier we were all corralled into rooms to talk about synergies,'' said one executive of a Vivendi unit, who was given anonymity to discuss internal matters. ''You don't hear the 's' word anymore.''
 There are some exceptions. Universal Music executives, for example, have helped Activision Blizzard fine-tune its Guitar Hero games, in which players strum along to tracks from their favorite bands. Activision hopes to lift sales in Europe by adding more locally popular music to the game, benefiting both companies. Doug Morris, chief executive of Universal Music, is on the board of Activision Blizzard.
 Elsewhere, however, opportunities for alliances remain limited. French regulators, for example, have restricted the ability of Canal Plus to cooperate with SFR, preventing them from selling bundled mobile, broadband and satellite-TV packages. 
 With no clear rationale for keeping the company together, why not break it up? A few years ago, private equity firms poked around Vivendi with an eye toward doing so but concluded that it would not make sense because of potential tax liabilities.
 The raiders have retreated, but the company faces another threat in the form of potential competition for SFR, which has been Vivendi's cash cow. The French government plans to sell a new license to provide mobile phone services, and the most likely candidate for it is Iliad, a newcomer whose discount pricing has shaken up the French broadband business. 
 Mr. Levy, along with the two other existing French mobile operators, France Telecom and Bouygues, have complained to regulators about the plans for a new license, saying it is being offered at too low a price. 
 Meanwhile, Vivendi is focusing on emerging markets for potential new sources of growth. Canal Plus recently moved into North Africa and Vietnam; Vivendi already controls Maroc Telecom, the largest telecommunications provider in Morocco.
 Analysts say Mr. Levy could use the money raised through a sale of the NBC Universal stake to finance acquisitions in emerging markets. But memories of Mr. Messier's profligacy have made the current management cautious about paying too much.
 Last summer, Vivendi's estimated $10 billion-plus offer to buy the African operations of Zain, a Kuwait-based mobile operator, was rejected by that company. This month, Vivendi's $2.9 billion bid for GVT, a Brazilian telecommunications company, was trumped by Telefonica of Spain; analysts say Vivendi is unlikely to come back with a higher offer.
 ''To walk away is better than what the Messier regime would have done, which was to pursue them at any price,'' Mr. O'Shea said. ''But instead of bad deals you get a lot of missed deals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Under its chief executive, Jean-Bernard Levy, Vivendi has completed a string of deals, in music, video games and more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS MORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LITIGATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (53%); CLASS ACTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: VIVENDI (92%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); NEWS CORP (72%); VIACOM INC (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (92%); VIV (BIT) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JEAN-BERNARD LEVY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



558 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week include Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.06 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.15 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.04 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
 WEDNESDAY
 Maryland, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Maryland, $603.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Suffolk County, N.Y., $158.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Alabama Public School and College Authority, $784.1 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 Baptist Memorial Health Care Corporation, $175 million of hospital revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Bi-State Development Agency of the Missouri-Illinois Metropolitan District, $94.9 million of debt securities. Morgan Keegan.
 Catholic Health Initiatives revenue bonds for Colorado Health Facilities Authority, Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority, and Montgomery County, Ohio, $1.1 billion. Morgan Stanley.
 City of Charlotte, N.C., $203.1 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Wachovia Bank.
 City of Riverton, Utah, $250 million of hospital revenue bonds for I H C Health Services. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 City of Tacoma, Wash., $76 million of water system revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Cook County, Ill., $400 million of refunding bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
 Denver International Airport, Colorado, $147.2 million of airport revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Douglas County School District, Colo., $162.8 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Frisco, Tex., Independent School District, $51 million of unlimited tax refinancing bonds. First Southwest Company.
 Highland County, Fla., Health Care Facilities Authority, $52.2 million of hospital revenue bonds for Adventist Health System/Sunbelt Obligated Group. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 Jefferson County, Colo., Finance Corporation, $70.3 million of debt securities. Stifel, Nicolaus.
 Kettering Medical Center, County of Montgomery, Ohio, $100 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, $253.2 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 Miami Parking Authority, $60 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Michigan State Hospital Finance Authority, $320 million of hospital revenue and refinancing bonds for Henry Ford Health System. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Mount Sinai School of Medicine, N.Y., $370 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, $254 million of debt securities for Project One and General Resolution Projects Subordinated. Citigroup Global Markets.
 New Jersey Housing, $186 million of single family housing revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 New Mexico Finance Authority, $128.7 million of state transportation refinancing revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 North Carolina Medical Care Community Health Care Facilities, $180 million of revenue bonds for Duke University Health System. Citigroup Global Markets.
 North Slope Borough, Alaska, $85.3 million of general obligation bonds for taxable Build America Bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
 Orlando, Fla., Utilities Commission, $130 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority, $75 million of water facilities revenue bonds for Aqua Pennsylvania Inc. Project.
 Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, $520 million of turnpike subordinate revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Sisters of St. Francis Health Services, $200 million of debt securities for Indiana Finance Authority. Merrill Lynch.
 South Carolina Public Service Authority, Santee Cooper, $418.6 million of revenue obligation bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 South Carolina State Education Assistance Authority, $85 million of student loan revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 South Correctional Entity Facility, State of Washington , $90.6 million of debt securities. Seattle-Northwest Securities.
 South Dakota Housing, $53 million of homeownership mortgage bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 State of Ohio, Third Frontier Research and Development, $75 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 State of Minnesota, $906.2 million of general obligation state bonds. Barclays Capital.
 State Public Works Board of the State of California, $584.1 million of debt securities for Federally Taxable Build America Bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 State Public Works of the State of California, $246.6 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 Tarrant County, Tex., Cultural Education Facilities Finance Corporation, $164.9 million of retirement facility revenue bonds for Tarrant County Senior Living Center. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 United Nations Development Corporation, $110 million of refinancing bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Villanova University, $80 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Washington Higher Education Facilities Authority, $64.3 million of revenue and revenue refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); AIRPORT OPERATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); AIRPORTS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); BAPTIST MEMORIAL HEALTH CARE CORP (69%); FIRST SOUTHWEST CO (65%); ADVENTIST HEALTH SYSTEM (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (55%); CATHOLIC HEALTH INITIATIVES (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); HENRY FORD HEALTH SYSTEM (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS623110 NURSING CARE FACILITIES (SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES) (64%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (64%); NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (64%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009



559 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2009

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Smil on Hummers, Hondas, Meat, Heat

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A longtime student of global risk says humans are both Wile E. Coyote, over the cliff, and the ultimate escape artist. 

 BODY:
For a couple of decades, Vaclav Smil has been on my go-to list when questions arise about global trends and risks, and particularly about energy. He is a distinguished professor on the environment faculty at the University of Manitoba but really should be in the department of everything. He rarely can be found anywhere other than Manitoba or Japan, so I jumped at the chance to do an hourlong interview with him at a festival of science and technology organized by the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics over the weekend. 
His rapid-fire mind allowed us to fit in a long list of issues, from the ebbing and surging of China's power over the centuries to the merits of Honda Civics and a low-meat diet, from the persistent threat of terrorism and nuclear war to what he says is the fantasy of capturing and burying carbon dioxide from coal combustion at a scale the atmosphere might notice. Below I've listed a menu of subjects with the relevant time on the video (minutes:seconds). I guarantee you won't agree with everything Dr. Smil says (as per this deepclimate.org critique), but I also guarantee it's worth the time to have a listen.
7:30: On Japan's less wasteful ways: 
They waste everything less, less food, less energy. So if the whole world wants to eat like Japan it's still dicey but kind of doable, But if the world wants to replicate the two biggest wasters in the world, the U.S. and Canada, there is no hope for anybody.
8:40: There are two durable camps out there, those who warn that humanity has overshot and is destined to crash, like Wile E. Coyote over the cliff, and those who insist that the human traits of innovation and adaptation will get us through. Who's right? 
People want to have it not so messy, but both are true.... We keep redefining resources all the time.... On the other hand, we have news like GM is unloading Hummer onto who, the Chinese.
20:00: If everyone lived like North Americans:
We are raising these expectations. We are saying you could be like us.... So 5 percent consume 25 percent. If the rest of the world will do the same thing what will we do? Five planets. This is a very simple calculation. 
21:55: Is climate change the biggest pinch point, or are other issues more pressing? 
This is unfolding slowly. This is not going to be with us in full force -- nobody claims it, even the orthodox people, in 2015. But in between there are a great many things coming in between.... The pandemic is number one. We are overdue....
28:00: Overconsumption, especially in North America, has only exploded in the last 40 years. Japan and France, for example, consume half as much energy per capita and more of it goes into making products.
Most of the energy in North America is just consuming -- Wal-Mart, shopping centers, government offices -- or personal consumption: houses, cars, flying to Hawaii, gambling in Las Vegas.... We could live affluent lifestyles with half as much energy. Are people so unhappy in Kyoto or Lyons? Is it such a terrible punishment to live in Bordeaux? 
33:10: Can we outgrow growth?
It's doable but doable only by catastrophe and crisis. People will not voluntarily abandon their Hummers.... It will happen eventually. It will have to happen because of the economic squeeze or strategic squeeze or the Chinese squeeze, but voluntarily the chance of it is very slim.

40:00 He provides a reality check, using simple calculations, on whether carbon dioxide from coal burning can be captured at a scale remotely applicable to the climate challenge. 
If you get a chance to listen in, what statements by Dr. Smil strike you as powerful or wrong, and why?

        
Coal Sans CO2: Appealing Pipe Dream
        
Can U.S., China Team Up on Climate, Energy?
        
Can China Follow U.S. Shift from Coal to Gas?
        
Behind China's Shift on Energy and Growth
        
Cities as Hubs of Energy and Climate Action

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (74%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (73%); NUTRITION (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (54%) ccs; China; Climate Change; energy; Population; smil; war; Carbon Dioxide; Coal; Diet and Nutrition; Economic Conditions and Trends; Energy and Power; Science and Technology; Sustainable Living; Hummer Division of General Motors Corp; Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics; Japan; disasters

ORGANIZATION: Hummer Division of General Motors Corp; Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics

GEOGRAPHIC: MANITOBA, CANADA (92%) JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012



560 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Iran Blames U.S. and Britain in Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Reporting was contributed by Mona El-Naggar from Riyadh, Sharon Otterman from New York and Nazila Fathi from Toronto.

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
Iranian officials claimed Monday that they had evidence of American and British involvement in the country's worst suicide bombing attacks in years, raising tensions as Iran meets with Western nations for another round of delicate talks on its nuclear program.
 At least five commanders of Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps were killed and dozens of other people were left dead and wounded on Sunday in two bombings in the restive southeast along Iran's frontier with Pakistan, according to Iranian state news agencies. 
 The coordinated strike, one of the largest against the Guards in the region, appeared to mark an escalation in hostilities between Iran's leadership and the Baluchi ethnic minority. Iranian officials accused foreign enemies of supporting the insurgents, singling out the intelligence agencies of United States, Britain and Pakistan.
 Mohammad Ali Jafari, the Guards' commander in chief, told the semiofficial ISNA agency on Monday: ''Behind this scene are the American and British intelligence apparatus, and there will have to be retaliatory measures to punish them,'' adding that Iran had documents proving their and Pakistani involvement. 
 The Baluchi insurgent group Jundallah -- or Soldiers of God -- took responsibility for the bombings, which included a suicide attack on a community meeting led by Revolutionary Guards and a roadside attack on a car full of Guards, both in the area of the city of Pishin. 
 Jundallah, whose members are Sunni Muslims, has claimed responsibility for other attacks in the region in recent years, and is believed to have killed hundreds of Iranian soldiers and civilians. The southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchistan has been the scene of attacks in the past, and in April the government put the Guards Corps in control of security there to try to stop the escalating violence.
 The official Fars news agency reported Monday that the attacks killed 42 people and wounded 28 others. It was unclear how many civilians were killed, but several tribal leaders were among the dead, other official media reports said.
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad promised ''that those who committed such criminal and inhuman acts will receive their response soon,'' the state-run Press TV reported.
 Iranian officials said they had evidence the attack was launched from within Pakistan, where Jundallah is based, and the Foreign Ministry late Sunday summoned Pakistan's charge d'affaires, Press TV said. 
 A Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman, Abdul Basit, told the Daily Times newspaper: ''Pakistan is not involved in terrorist activities,'' adding, ''We are striving to eradicate this menace.''
 Ali Larijani, the speaker of Parliament, said the United States bore some responsibility for the attacks. ''If they want relations with Iran, they must be frank,'' he said, according to the semiofficial ISNA news service, adding, ''We consider the recent terrorist measure the outcome of the U.S. measures.''
 In the past, Iranian officials have accused the United States of financing and arming Jundallah.
 The United States condemned the bombings and denied any connection with them. ''We condemn this act of terrorism and mourn the loss of innocent lives,'' said Ian C. Kelly, a State Department spokesman. ''Reports of alleged U.S. involvement are completely false.'' 
 The British government rejects ''in the strongest terms'' allegations that it aided rebels, a foreign office spokesperson told Reuters Monday.
 The bombers struck early Sunday as the Guards prepared to bring regional Shiite and Sunni leaders together for a conference in Pishin to try to improve relations among the different communities, according to the Iranian news reports. 
 In one attack, a suicide bomber wearing a military uniform and an explosive belt entered a mosque where Guard commanders were organizing a reconciliation meeting, according to the semiofficial ILNA news service.
 In the second attack, a car carrying a group of Guards members was bombed, state news agencies said. 
 According to the Fars News Agency, which is affiliated with the Guards, those killed included the lieutenant commander of ground forces, Brig. Gen. Nourali Shoushtari, as well as the commanders of Sistan-Baluchistan province, the Iranshahr Corps, the Sarbaz Corps and the Amiralmoemenin Brigade. 
 The Baluchis, who are mostly Sunni, are one of many ethnic and religious minorities who have complained of discrimination in Iran, a predominantly Shiite Muslim and ethnically Persian nation. 
 Jundallah, which says it is fighting for greater autonomy for Baluchis in Iran and Pakistan, bombed a Shiite mosque in Zahedan, the capital of Sistan-Baluchistan, in May, killing 25 people. Jundallah rebels abducted and killed 16 Iranian soldiers late last year, and bombed a bus carrying Guards members in 2007, killing 11.
 Iranian authorities hanged 13 members of the group in May, and have executed others previously.
 Mustafa El-Labbad, director of the East Center for Regional and Strategic Studies in Cairo, said ethnic and sectarian divisions made the region particularly volatile. ''There is the Baluchi versus Persian, and there is Sunni versus Shiite,'' he said. ''It also lies on the border with Pakistan, which is not totally secured -- weapons can come through. So there is a very explosive blend there.''
 The Guards have emerged as the most powerful political, social and economic bloc in the nation, eclipsing even the clergy and the conservatives. In the aftermath of Iran's contested presidential election, the Guards took control of national security, overseeing a violent crackdown on protests as well as mass arrests of protesters and critics.
 In this context, Mr. Labbad said, an attack on the Guards -- no matter the motivation -- has symbolic resonance. ''It is designed to affect the image of Iran,'' he said. 
 Iranian officials are due to meet Monday in Vienna with officials of several countries to discuss an accord to ship uranium to Russia for enrichment, part of an effort by the West to try to halt Iran's nuclear program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); RELIGION (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); ETHNICITY (69%)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (59%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



561 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: Where Land Slides, Trying to Learn Why

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Water bottle in hand, Dennis Staley crouched over a patch of ground, cleared away surface soil with a finger and poured a couple of drops on the exposed layer.
 Dr. Staley and a colleague, Jason Kean, researchers with the United States Geological Survey, were taking a break from their work one recent morning in Mission Canyon just above Santa Barbara to offer a show and tell on the interaction of soil and water.
 ''It will soak in on the surface,'' Dr. Staley said. ''But just below the surface it's going to bead up.'' Sure enough, the water drops were still visible, as if they had been spilled on a tabletop. ''So that enhances the amount of runoff that naturally comes off these slopes,'' he said.
 ''Which,'' he added, looking at the largely ash-dusted, barren terrain, ''is why we do all this.'' 
 For the two scientists, ''all this'' had included hiking down trail-less slopes of loose rock and soil past sharp, charred stumps of manzanita and oak, hauling gauges and sensors, solar-powered communications equipment, a surveying device with a tripod, and assorted mounting poles, clamps, cables, drills and batteries, as well as cement and other supplies. As part of long-term geological survey research on landslide hazards, they were setting up a remote monitoring station to study how and when the runoff from coming rains might pick up soil and rock and become a destructive torrent of mud.
 Given that it was denuded by a wildfire just four months before, Mission Canyon is a likely place for a landslide -- in this case, more properly called a mudslide, or, even more properly, a debris flow. In Southern California and other parts of the West, where the wildfires of spring and summer are followed by the rains of fall and winter, slides are the almost inevitable result.
 But mudslides and landslides occur all over the world, often in areas with plenty of vegetation. Just a half-hour south on the Pacific Coast Highway in the small town of La Conchita, plain wooden crosses mark where 10 people were killed when the unburned hillside above the town gave way in 2005. In the past several months alone, typhoons in the Philippines and Taiwan have caused mudslides that buried whole villages, killing hundreds of people and bringing widespread economic disruption.
 Last year, according to data compiled by Dalia B. Kirschbaum, a researcher at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., at least 540 landslides set off by rain were reported in published accounts around the world. In all, more than 2,100 people were killed.
 Given the toll in lives and money, scientists like Dr. Staley and Dr. Kean are studying how and when slides happen -- what characteristics of soil and underlying rock, what degree of slope and intensity of rainfall will cause a hillside to fail or a flood of mud to roar down a canyon, demolishing houses or whatever else is in its path. And Dr. Kirschbaum and others are looking at landslide hazards on larger scales, using data from satellites.
 The goal is to be able to assess risk and forecast when disaster looms -- locally, regionally, even globally.
 Yet landslides do not get as much attention as other disasters, from the public or from scientists. They are usually thought of as secondary hazards, byproducts of much larger catastrophes like earthquakes, fires or storms. They are highly localized events, often occurring in remote, underdeveloped areas. And they can be baffling: one hillside may collapse in a storm while an adjacent one remains intact.
 ''We have a fundamental problem, really,'' said David Petley, a professor of geography at Durham University in England and director of a small research group there, the International Landslide Center. ''We understand the process through which these landslides occur incredibly poorly.''
 Dr. Petley has maintained a database of fatal landslides since 2002, in part, he said, because knowledge of when and where the slides occur is a step toward understanding them. But another reason, he said, is simply ''to demonstrate that landslides have a big impact.''
 Landslide risk assessment and forecasting may be an inexact science, but the work by geological survey researchers is about as precise as it gets.
 Mission Canyon burned in May in the Jesusita fire, which destroyed more than 8,700 acres, much of it in the Los Padres National Forest. The canyon was a western edge of the fire, and a populated part. Dr. Staley and Dr. Kean had passed the remains of some of the 80 homes that burned -- usually only the chimney and foundation are left after a wildfire -- during the drive up to their staging area on a power-line maintenance road.
 The site for their monitoring station, about 300 vertical feet below at the bottom of a small basin, had been selected through a modeling program developed by Susan Cannon, who directs the geological survey's post-wildfire debris flow studies program in Golden, Colo. The software takes into account factors like slope, soil characteristics and the severity of a burn, which can be measured by before-and-after satellite images of the vegetation, to determine possible sites for debris flows.
 Burn severity is important, Dr. Cannon said, because ''heating the soil really changes how rainfall infiltrates into it.'' In places like Santa Barbara, she said, naturally hydrophobic chemicals in the chaparral become volatilized when the vegetation burns, creating a water-repellent layer in the soil. 
 Dr. Kean said ash from the fire might also play a role, plugging up pores in the soil structure. Either way, he said, as the show and tell demonstrated, ''it's almost like a parking lot.''
 Among the instruments he and Dr. Staley set up at the site was a simple rain gauge. ''Rainfall is the key parameter for all this, so we're always measuring rain,'' he said. They also installed a device to measure the moisture content of the soil -- the more saturated, the more runoff there will be.
 The main piece of equipment, installed on a boom over a channel at the base of the canyon, is an acoustic sensor to gauge the runoff during a rainstorm. It measures the height of the flow, and when the data is coupled with measurements of the channel profile made using the surveying equipment, a rough volume can be calculated. Pressure data, from a transducer installed in a groove cut into the base of the channel, can determine whether the runoff is only water -- not necessarily a good thing, since flash floods can be destructive, too -- or whether the conditions were such that soil and rock became mixed in.
 The data is constantly sent by cellular link to Dr. Kean's computer in Golden. Even if no debris flow occurs, the information will be useful, adding to the body of knowledge about slide hazards and helping to refine Dr. Cannon's model. The data is also sent to the National Weather Service, which uses it and information from a network of other rain gauges to decide whether to issue local alerts about potential mudslides.
 ''If they're anticipating or measuring a certain intensity of rainfall over a given duration of time, they'll pull the trigger on a watch or a warning,'' Dr. Staley said. ''It's a program that's doing pretty well, but we'd like to improve it and reduce their false alarm ratio.''
 Dr. Staley and Dr. Kean are part of a relatively small team, with about 15 scientists studying debris flows and other landslides. But by global standards the geological survey effort is large.
 While there are other relatively small-scale risk analysis and warning programs around the world -- Hong Kong, for example, has a system of sensors to help protect residential areas that back up against steep hills -- many slides, particularly in less-developed countries, happen with little or no warning and no prior scientific assessment that the site was at risk.
 At NASA Goddard, researchers are working to provide risk assessment on a much larger scale. ''We're in the very early stages of trying to use space observations to look on a global basis where these kinds of hazards are occurring,'' said Robert Adler, an atmospheric scientist and rainfall expert. 
 The system uses near-real-time rainfall data from a NASA satellite applied to a global map of terrain ranked according to a ''susceptibility index.'' If rainfall exceeds a threshold in an area, Dr. Adler's algorithm will rate that area as likely to have landslides.
 ''We're not in the warning business, for sure,'' Dr. Adler said. For one thing, the resolution of the data is low; they can forecast that landslides are more likely within a square area about 15 miles on each side. That is not useful for warning people to evacuate, he said, but it may help relief agencies, to give them a signal for prepositioning supplies. 
 Dr. Kirschbaum is working to improve the system, by creating higher-resolution maps of areas that are prone to landslides. She has used data from Hurricane Mitch, which caused many slides in Central America in 1998, to improve the susceptibility index for that region. Improving the resolution of rainfall data will have to wait, though, for new satellites.
 ''The very apparent problem with this global issue is that there's uncertainty with every aspect of this,'' Dr. Kirschbaum said. ''Rainfall data has its flaws. Surface data has trouble in its resolution and accuracy.''
 For the geological survey scientists, resolution is not a problem. Sometimes they put out more rain gauges, because they find that rainfall can vary even across a small basin. ''The more data points'' on rain, Dr. Kean said, ''the better we can understand the variability.''
 They keep instruments at a site for only a year or two; after that the vegetation will have grown back enough to help stabilize the soils. Already at Mission Canyon, greenery is sprouting from the bases of burned-out trees.
 While they were working in Santa Barbara they already had their eye on the Station Fire, a huge blaze near Los Angeles that destroyed more than 100,000 acres in September. Perhaps there, or at another future site, they would use Lidar, a device that scans the terrain with laser pulses to create an extremely precise map. ''With Lidar, we can create a virtual basin,'' Dr. Kean said. ''Every nook and cranny should be represented.'' 
 By repeating the measurements throughout the rainy season, ''we can see how sediment is moving through the watershed,'' Dr. Staley said. 
 ''And if there is a debris flow,'' he continued, ''we'll know exactly how much material came out of the basin.''
 Of course, that would involve hauling even bigger equipment down some slippery, burned-over slope. ''It's a gear-intensive effort,'' Dr. Staley said. ''But the information we can get out of it is pretty incredible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON LOCATION Jason Kean, left, and Dennis Staley, scientists with the United States Geological Survey, exploring the terrain above Santa Barbara, Calif. In May, below, the area was hit by wildfire. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARK BOSTER/LOS ANGELES TIMES) (pg.D1)
SCARRED After a fire, denuded land above Santa Barbara, Calif., exhibits some conditions that are right for a slide.
 FIELD TOOL: A gauge to measure rain, which a researcher, Jason Kean, calls ''the key parameter for all this.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); LANDSLIDES (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); FIRES (87%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (77%); POLLUTION MONITORING (77%); TYPHOONS (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



562 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Pedaling on the Road

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
Christopher R. Bennett, a civil engineer for the World Bank who was out of the country for work 172 days last year, is one of what experts say is a growing number of business travelers who bicycle while on assignment. 
 ''To me, cycling is part of my DNA,'' Mr. Bennett said in an interview from Tbilisi, Georgia, where he was overseeing investment in road construction. He travels with a bike that disassembles and fits in an average-size suitcase, or uses bicycles he stores at hotels he frequents. ''Bellhops know when I'm coming and bring them to me,'' he said. 
 The number of business travelers who bike is not tracked. But based on the Census Bureau's American Community Survey data released last month, there was a 43 percent increase nationally from 2000 to 2008 in people who bike to work regularly, though the numbers are still small: 786,098 last year, compared with 488,497 in 2000.
 Andy Clarke, president of the League of American Bicyclists, said health, being green and, more recently, economics were among the reasons more people are cycling to work. Many riders are continuing the habit on business trips. ''They don't want to miss a day in the saddle if they can help it,'' he said.
 That was the case for Alison Chaiken, a software engineer in the San Francisco Bay area. ''I usually bicycle commute and thought it'd be fun to do it on a business trip,'' said Ms. Chaiken, who traveled to England last fall for Hewlett-Packard, then her employer. And, she said, it made sense. With no good public transportation from her hotel in downtown Bristol to the company site in the countryside, and her concerns about driving on the ''wrong'' side of the road, she biked the scenic Bristol & Bath Railway Path for the week. She estimates that she saved the company hundreds of dollars by not renting a car and avoiding the high price of gas overseas. And she skirted rush-hour traffic.
 Recent efforts have made biking easier and safer. Hotels often offer bicycle rentals, and many American cities have created bike paths and lanes, improved markings on streets and installed bicycle traffic lights. And public-private bicycle sharing programs, based in large part on the success of European models, have begun or are in development in more than a dozen of the largest cities in the United States, Mr. Clarke said. 
 Most bicycle-sharing programs in Europe offer fleets of sturdy bicycles at multiple locations that are ideal for ''for getting around town, from one meeting to another,'' Mr. Clarke said. 
 But Eric V. Swanson, program manager for the World Bank, said he had trouble in Europe because the machines at the kiosks could not read his American credit card. ''I became frustrated on several occasions,'' he said. He was in Paris during the transit strike two years ago and ''there were bikes in stands all over the city, and I couldn't do it.'' He ended up walking the three miles to his meeting and back.
 Joshua Gaughen, who travels frequently as a government contractor, said he had faced hurdles as well in keeping up his bicycle habit. He said he stopped taking his full-size bicycle on airplanes because it was cumbersome and expensive. ''It was just a nightmare,'' he said. The bike case or disposable boxes he used had to be unpacked at the airport because they did not fit in the compact cars that the government required on business trips. For a business trip to Hawaii in March, it would have cost $450 to fly his bicycle from Virginia. He said he recently bought a folding bike that fits into a regular suitcase. ''It's really the only thing that allows me to keep riding,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gaughen and others recommend that bicyclists research baggage policies in advance because there is a huge variation in what airlines charge to transport bicycles.
 Some avid cyclists say that the bicycles available at hotels are often poor quality and unsafe, and that finding local bike shops that rent can be a challenge. 
 George Gill recalled trying unsuccessfully to rent a bike before a business meeting in Dallas several years ago. On the flight there, he remembers thinking, ''There's got to be a better way.'' He said he wrote the beginnings of a business plan for a bicycle rental company on a cocktail napkin on the plane. Now the company, RentaBikeNow.com, offers a large selection of bicycles through local bike shops -- from cruisers to carbon-fiber racing bikes -- at an average cost of about $40 a day, in 181 cities in the United States and Canada. 
 But even if a cycling enthusiast finds a good bicycle, safety is an issue, particularly in some foreign countries where laws and customs can be quite different. 
 Jim Langley, an author and cycling expert, receives e-mail messages asking about the pros and cons of bringing or renting a bike, whether to bring a helmet or not, or how to ride without dirtying clothes. ''Many see it as a hassle, but if they do their homework, it's worth it,'' he said. ''It helps me feel more centered and sharper in meetings. And the fastest way to get over jet lag quickly is a one-hour bike ride. It just brings you back to life.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher R. Bennett, a civil engineer, was biking on the Georgian Military Road near Tbilisi, Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELENA CHESHEVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HOTEL STAFF (75%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CENSUS (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); CITIES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); LEAGUE OF AMERICAN BICYCLISTS (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GEORGIA (90%); ENGLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



563 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: British Regulator Proposes Tighter Rules for Mortgages

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Britain's financial regulator proposed a set of reforms on Monday that would tighten criteria for lenders to make home loans and would require the banks to assess whether a consumer would be able to repay a loan. 
 The proposals by the regulator, the Financial Services Authority, also include a ban on mortgages that do not require verification of a borrower's income. Mortgage advisers would also be personally accountable to the regulator, and the agency would prevent lenders from selling higher-risk products, like interest-only mortgages, to some consumers who could struggle to repay them, including those with bad credit histories or an unstable income.
 The changes are intended to even out the ups and downs of the $:1.2 trillion, or $2 trillion, residential housing market in Britain, where consumers could obtain mortgages worth more than the value of the property they were buying during the peak of the market in 2007. New laws would shift more responsibility to the lenders from the borrowers, following similar steps recently by regulators in Australia.
 The authority ''needs to ensure that firms only lend to people who can afford to pay the money back,'' Jon Pain, the regulator's director of supervision, said in a statement. ''The reforms that we have announced will ensure that the mortgage market works better for consumers and that it is sustainable for firms.''
 Even though Britain did not have a sizable subprime mortgage market as in the United States, a steep increase in housing prices was a main contributor to Britain's buoyant economy until 2007. 
 Many lenders were handing out mortgages without verifying a borrower's income. Consumers, eager to jump on the housing ladder after seeing prices double over the previous decade, overstretched with housing loans they could barely afford. 
 Once interest rates rose and credit became more expensive and harder to obtain, many struggled to keep up with repayments. Arrears and repossessions started to climb together with unemployment as the economy fell deeper into the recession.
 The regulator said Monday that some of the risky lending would be curtailed as part of higher capital requirements imposed on banks but that more rules would be needed to ensure more responsible lending. The regulator stopped short of proposing caps on certain lending ratios, such as the size of the loan compared with a borrower's income or to the value of a property. But it said it ''has not ruled out further change if the initial proposals do not have sufficient effect.''
 In the draft regulation, which is open for feedback until the end of January, the agency said that ''limiting sales of certain products could beneficially reduce the volumes of mortgage lending in the economy'' but that applied too stringently the proposals could also have a negative effect on the economy.
 Some critics argued the proposals would increase bureaucracy for mortgage lenders, slow down the mortgage approval process, hurt the housing market and stall an economic recovery. 
 And the British Bankers' Association warned that new rules must not make it harder for borrowers that some lenders could identify as riskier, including the self-employed and first-time buyers, to obtain a mortgage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer peering at homes in an agent's window in London. One change would force lenders to verify a borrower's income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HACKETT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REPOSSESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); RECESSION (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



564 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BOOKS ON SCIENCE JOHN MARKOFF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking What Leads the Way: Science, or New Technology?

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Consider what the state of science would be without the microscope, the telescope, or a more recent technical advance like automated DNA sequencing.
 There would still be science, rooted in human perception and reason. But it would be far less potent than modern science, which has technologically expanded the senses, and with computers, the intellect, to explore and decipher reality, from the universe itself to the most elusive subatomic particle. Higgs bosons, anyone?
 The popular view is that technology is the handmaiden of science -- less pure, more commercial. But in ''The Nature of Technology: What It Is and How It Evolves,'' W. Brian Arthur, an economist, reframes the relationship between science and technology as part of an effort to come up with a comprehensive theory of innovation. In Dr. Arthur's view, the relationship between science and technology is more symbiotic than is generally conceded. Science and technology move forward together in a kind of co-evolution. And science does not lead. 
 ''What I began to realize as I got into the project is that everything emerges out of technology,'' Dr. Arthur said in a recent interview. ''It's technology that gives rise to both modern science and the economy, and we tend to think of it in reverse -- that science gives rise to technology and the economy gives rise to technology. But technology is more fundamental than either one.''
 It is easy to see how someone who has become one of Silicon Valley's leading thinkers would take that view, but Dr. Arthur's argument as laid out in ''The Nature of Technology'' is not a one-sided manifesto.
 In trying to explain innovation, he steps away from both Darwinian and more mechanistic approaches to how technologies change and tries to build a theoretical framework around what he describes as a ''combinatorial'' model of technological evolution.
 Technologies evolve, Dr. Arthur writes, based on the chaotic and constant recombining of already existing technologies. In this view all technological breakthroughs emerge as novel combinations of existing technological components, which have themselves come into existence through the same process. And, he argues, both technological and scientific progress are driven by humans looking for a means to an end they have already defined. 
 It is a profoundly social view of innovation. In Dr. Arthur's view, the ''lone inventor'' is in fact an invention, part of American economic mythology. The apparently independent genius is always someone who has a deep knowledge of existing technologies and has the inspiration to combine them in new ways.
 ''The Nature of Technology'' is evocative of ''The Structure of Scientific Revolutions'' by Thomas S. Kuhn. Dr. Kuhn explored the idea of ''paradigm shifts'' to explain scientific progress. Scientific theories would gradually accumulate anomalies as new evidence was developed, until a crisis led to a new paradigm or theoretical model. In Dr. Arthur's view of technological change, the market plays the role of arbiter in the emergence of new technologies.
 One example of such a striking shift was the changeover to jet engines in commercial aircraft. 
 Dr. Arthur, who was trained as an engineer, mathematician and economist, is best known for early research on the impact of increasing returns in economies. He demonstrated how, particularly in technology-oriented industries, early advantages and random events can lead to monopoly positions. His research gained influence during the Justice Department's antitrust lawsuit against Microsoft during the 1990s. 
 He has also studied human fertility in the third world and ultimately left an endowed chair at Stanford in 1996 to focus on complexity theory and the economy at the Santa Fe Institute. He became increasingly interested in the effort to arrive at a general definition of technology. 
 ''I began to realize that our wealth and our well-being all emerge out of technologies,'' Dr. Arthur said.
 ''Technology is a bit like music in that there is an enormous amount known about individual technologies, and in music we know the scores of every composer who left records. We know every note in every composition, but if you ask what is music, and where does the musical part of music come from, you're in a quite deep philosophical conversation.''
 What he has arrived at is a theory that tries to parallel Darwin's ''On the Origin of Species'' but not repeat it. He notes that since Samuel Butler wrote ''Darwin Among the Machines,'' just four years after Darwin's book appeared, there have been efforts to fashion a theory of evolution of technology.
 Dr. Arthur tries to explain the emergence of radical new technologies from jet engines to GPS. He correctly points out that the jet engine did not arise from the steady accretion of small improvements in piston engines nor did the modern computer burst forth as the next generation of mechanical calculator. 
 He points to the human propensity to solve problems as the force that leads to new generations of technology through recombination of existing technologies. Technology is ''alive'' in the sense that a coral reef is alive. The reef is an ecological system with many species, and technology in the broadest sense is an elaborate and constantly changing structure made up of thousands of discrete technologies, themselves composed of separate technologies.
 If we understand where technology is coming from, can we then discern where it is headed? If Dr. Arthur is bold in his reassessment of the role of technology in science, he is cautious, and probably rightly so, in his prediction about where it is headed.
 It has long been fashionable for Silicon Valley visionaries to prognosticate about the direction of technology. And fortunately for reporters always looking for new articles, and new predictions, they are wrong far more often than right. The current fashion here is to speculate on when the ''singularity'' -- the spontaneous emergence of a network or machine intelligence -- will happen. There are conferences and even a school celebrating the convergence of a growing number of exponential rates-of-change ranging from computer power to the falling cost of gene sequencing.
 But Dr. Arthur demurs.
 In his final chapter -- ''Where Do We Stand With This Creation of Ours?'' -- he notes that writers as diverse as the philosopher Martin Heidegger and the sociologist Jacques Ellul have suggested that technology has become something of a Frankenstein, set apart from us with a will of its own.
 Dr. Arthur's view is that technology is something that defines us as human and that, in the end, we will be able to control a set of technologies that rather than conquering us will extend our humanity.
 THE NATURE OF TECHNOLOGY: What It Is and How It Evolves. By W. Brian Arthur. Free Press. 246 pages. $27. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (78%); DNA (78%); GENOMICS (78%); EVOLUTION THEORY (74%); BIOINFORMATICS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); HIGGS BOSON (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



565 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Growing Work For High School Counselors

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
The struggling economy has taken a toll on those directly responsible for advising students about the college admission process.
 Nearly half of public schools have raised the caseloads of high school counselors this year, compared with last year, with the average increase exceeding 53 students, according to a study by the National Association for College Admission Counseling.
 At the same time, the report said, the pressures on applicants (and, by extension, their counselors) are growing, as the number of applications to four-year colleges continued to rise, along with the number of students applying to colleges under early-decision programs. 
 In many respects, the report, ''2009 State of College Admission,'' seeks to quantify the extent of the frenzy engulfing many of today's college applicants.
 For example, about 22 percent of students who enrolled in college in the fall of 2008 applied to at least seven colleges, up from about 19 percent from a year earlier. Meanwhile, the average acceptance rate at four-year colleges declined slightly, to 66.8 percent in 2007, the last year for which the report provided full data in that category, from 71.3 percent in 2001.
 Those applicants who find themselves on a waiting list face tough odds of being accepted. Fewer than one in three on such lists in 2008 were ultimately accepted, according to the report, about the same as a year earlier.
 And yet the report included some indications that the pressures on applicants could soon ease. The number of students graduating from high school annually is believed to have peaked this spring, at 3.33 million, according to the report, so competition for places in colleges should diminish over the next few years. 
 But families of children in elementary school take note: the nation's collective high school graduating class ''is projected to rebound to 3.31 million by 2017-18,'' the report said.
 Many applicants rely on their school counselors for advice on college admissions, and the report described the rising workloads of those counselors, particularly at public high schools. (While private school counselors are also working harder, in many instances, fewer than 20 percent reported that their caseloads had increased since the last school year, compared with 45 percent of their public school counterparts.)
 Among the states with the highest student-to-counselor ratios are California (986 students for each counselor), Minnesota (799) and Utah (720), according to the report, which cited government data for the 2006-7 school year. While Illinois was listed as having the highest ratio (1,172), the report suggested that the figure was probably ''the result of a reporting error,'' and was most likely closer to about 700.
 Sandie Gilbert, a counselor at Highland Park High School in Illinois said in an interview that she had a caseload of about 280 students this year -- an increase of about 45, or 20 percent, since she first began working at the school 15 years ago. 
 ''It's been inching up every year,'' Ms. Gilbert said.
 About a quarter of her students are freshmen, who have been streaming into her office since school began in late August with any number of ''acclimation'' issues, she said. Another quarter are seniors, whom Ms. Gilbert must serve not only in one-on-one guidance sessions but by writing college recommendations for each.
 ''I wrote 43 recommendations before Oct. 15, and that's at home, at night,'' she said, citing the November deadlines for early-decision applications.
 ''I was really busy every single period, for the first six weeks of school,'' she added. ''I'm just now eating lunch. It's been sitting there on my desk. It's 2:30.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (93%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (92%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



566 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (ESPN) 30 FOR 30 In ''Who Killed the USFL?,'' the third of 30 films created to celebrate ESPN's 30th anniversary, Mike Tollin chronicles the history of the United States Football League, which kicked off in 1983 with 12 teams, whose players included three Heisman Trophy winners from the National Football League; crowds averaging 25,000 a game; and respectable television ratings. But soon enough an impatient owner named Donald Trump, above, found himself at odds with the league's founders. Three seasons later the league was reduced to waging an antitrust lawsuit against the N.F.L. -- and in the process put itself out of business. 
 4 P.M. (ABC); 7 P.M. (55) THE OPRAH WINFREY SHOW Five women discuss how they fell victim to a man convicted of using sex as a deadly weapon. 
 8 P.M. (13, 49) LIZARD KINGS Monitor lizards -- armed with long claws, razor-sharp teeth and muscular, whiplike tails -- are the largest lizards on earth. But their acute intelligence, including the ability to plan and to adapt to different settings, seems to blur the line between reptiles and mammals. ''Nova'' ponders these elusive survivors while it follows the herpetologist Eric Pianka, a k a the Lizard Man, as he tracks them through Australia's heartland.
 8 P.M. (NBC) THE BIGGEST LOSER You can't go home again. The contestants, left, turn beachcombers as they're challenged to dig through sand for a buried treasure: tickets to visit their loved ones. But the winning team soon discovers that it may not be such a gift after all.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) DIRTY JOBS Mike Rowe travels to an Arkansas creek to perform tests on endangered alligator snapping turtles. He then heads to San Francisco to remove and recycle toilets.
 9 P.M. (IFC) MONTY PYTHON: ALMOST THE TRUTH (THE LAWYER'S CUT) Part 3 in this six-hour documentary series about the British comedy troupe examines ''the sordid personal bits,'' including BBC censorship; the departure of John Cleese; the life of Graham Chapman, who died in 1989; and that ugly thing called celebrity. ''Monty Python's Life of Brian'' (1979) follows at 10, and an episode of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' at 11:30.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) THE WARNING ''Frontline'' looks back to an intense battle among high-ranking members of the Clinton administration and unearths the story of Brooksley E. Born. As the chairwoman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a federal regulatory agency, from 1996 to 1999, Ms. Born warned of the potential for economic meltdown and tried to persuade important players to take actions that might have helped avert the crisis. Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, tells why he didn't take Ms. Born's campaign to regulate the derivatives market seriously -- and why he wishes he had. 
 10 P.M. (Travel) ANDREW ZIMMERN'S BIZARRE WORLD Mr. Zimmern samples some of Florida's more unusual subcultures, like sponge divers, frog giggers (those who hunt frogs with spears), mermaids and drag racers. 
 10 P.M. (DirecTV) EYES Several episodes from this ABC series, now defunct, about an investigative company that uses barely legal techniques to go where law enforcement can't, are seeing the light of day, having never been broadcast before. In the first, Harlan Judd (Tim Daly), the group's leader, suspects that the officer (Stephen Baldwin) investigating a break-in is actually the burglar who just shot at him.
 10 P.M. (13); 11 P.M. (49) BUTTE, AMERICA In this ''Independent Lens'' presentation, Pamela Roberts journeys to Butte, Mont., once the world's largest producer of copper (right, a mine there in the 1940s), to tell the stories of five generations of families and their ties to the Anaconda Copper Mining Company. She also looks at hardships like fires, strikes and health and environmental problems. Gabriel Byrne narrates.
 10 P.M. (CBS) THE GOOD WIFE Alicia (Julianna Margulies) and Will (Josh Charles) have only 72 hours to prove that a railroad -- and not the engineers of a freight train -- is responsible for a crash and in doing so secure pensions for several widows. Martha Plimpton guest stars as the railroad's pregnant lawyer. Elsewhere, Alicia and her mother-in-law, Jackie (Mary Beth Peil), tangle over whether to take the children to visit their father (Chris Noth) in prison. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (76%); LITIGATION (75%); WOMEN (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); ZOOLOGY (67%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (60%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); FUTURES (60%); MAMMALS (57%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (55%); SECURITIES TRADING (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (55%); OPRAH WINFREY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



567 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Despite Downturn in Traffic, Los Angeles Plans $1.3 Billion Airport Overhaul

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Airport traffic is down, airlines are consolidating routes and Southern California's business and tourism economy is reeling from the recession. But city officials cast a vote of confidence on Monday in the future of Los Angeles International Airport, awarding contracts for a major overhaul of the airport's international travel facilities, including adding more than one million square feet of terminal space.
 ''This is an opportunity to send a message that we are serious about keeping and attracting new business,'' said Janice Hahn, a Los Angeles councilwoman who has pushed for the overhaul. 
 The $1.3 billion in contracts was the largest ever awarded for a single project in Los Angeles, city officials said. The project -- which will be financed with bonds, not federal stimulus money -- will be the first significant renovation of the airport's international terminal in more than 25 years, officials said. The Los Angeles airport is the world's fifth busiest.
 ''This is the front door to America for a lot of people,'' said Gina Marie Lindsey, executive director of Los Angeles World Airports, which operates the airport. ''We are completely redoing our front door.''
 The decision to upgrade the airport follows similar moves in other cities. Most major airports underwent significant renovations in the late 1990s and early 2000s -- before the airline industry slump and the security changes that followed the Sept. 11 attacks -- or have taken on smaller, more frequent construction projects over the years, said Deborah McElroy, executive vice president for policy and external affairs for the Airports Council International, an industry trade group.
 Dallas/Fort Worth and Atlanta international airports are undergoing major renovations, Ms. McElroy said. In September, Dallas commissioners approved a remodeling of the airport's four terminals that will cost $1.5 billion to $2 billion. At Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson airport, a new international arrivals facility will cost $1.68 billion and is scheduled to open in 2012. 
 The Los Angeles contracts will modernize facilities that have remained unchanged since they were upgraded in preparation for the city's hosting of the 1984 Olympics. ''This is a very sizable, not only expansion, but also rehabilitation, renovating systems that were desperately in need,'' Ms. McElroy said. 
 Two contracts awarded Monday by the Los Angeles Airport Commission to Walsh Austin Joint Venture, based here, and another already under way will create new security checkpoints, ticket counters, immigration and customs space. They will also add passenger lounges and a large central hall with restaurants and shops, adding a million square feet to the Tom Bradley International Terminal.
 Two new concourses will add nine new gates, two scheduled to open in 2012. The rest of construction is expected to be completed the following year. 
 ''Yes, there has been a downturn in airport traffic,'' Ms. Lindsey said. ''But the reason this project is needed has nothing to do with the number of passengers. It's how we handle those passengers.''
 The work will go beyond a facelift and deal with one of the airport's most vexing problems: how to accommodate oversize aircraft. 
 Because of limitations in the airport's current configuration, the enormous Airbus A380 has had to taxi to the outer reaches of the tarmac and unload passengers into buses that carry them to the terminal, Ms. Hahn said. Meanwhile, air traffic controllers have had to choreograph airport operations around the big planes, at times delaying other flights to keep the double-decker crafts from idling and disrupting airport radio signals. 
 ''These aircraft don't have to stop at LAX,'' said Ms. Hahn. ''People in the airline industry were telling me they could just pass us over. LAX was not getting its fair share of the future.''
 In a city reliant on exports, said Jerry Nickelsburg, an expert in the California economy at the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, a ready and efficient airport with large capacity for shipping goods and passengers is essential. 
 ''Los Angeles produces a lot of expensive, high tech equipment,'' Mr. Nickelsburg said. Most of it, he said, is ''time sensitive, and needs to be shipped fast.''
 ''If our cargo capabilities are maxed out,'' he said, ''less attention is paid to expand export oriented, high value manufacturing here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The international terminal at the airport in Los Angeles will undergo its first significant renovation since the city hosted the Olympics in 1984. Architects' sketches of some of the changes are below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWINGS (CONCEPTUAL DESIGNS BY FENTRESS ARCHITECTS/LOS ANGELES WORLD AIRPORTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); AIRLINES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TOURISM (73%); OLYMPICS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%)

PERSON: JANICE HAHN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



568 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1191 words

PERSON: Howard Unruh 

HEADLINE: Howard Unruh, 88, Dies; Killed 13 of His Neighbors in Camden in 1949

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
Howard Unruh, who carried out one of America's most infamous mass shootings, killing 13 people, three of them children, in a 20-minute, seemingly emotionless stroll through his neighborhood in Camden, N.J., in September 1949, died Monday at a nursing home in Trenton after 60 years' confinement. He was 88.
 His death was announced by Warren W. Faulk, the Camden County prosecutor. James Laughlin, a spokesman for the prosecutor, said Mr. Unruh had been in state custody since his arrest. 
 Mr. Unruh was found to have paranoid schizophrenia and never stood trial. He was confined to the high-security Vroom Building for the criminally insane at Trenton Psychiatric Hospital until 1993, when he was transferred across the grounds to less restrictive wards in a geriatric unit. 
 When Mr. Unruh gunned down his neighbors, the shootings were particularly shocking because no one could remember anything like that. And few of his neighbors, in the working-class Cramer Hill section of East Camden, had paid him much notice. An Army veteran who had seen extensive combat in Europe with the artillery in World War II, he lived in a three-room apartment in the 3200 block of River Road with his mother, Freda. 
 He had often accompanied her to St. Paul's Evangelical Lutheran Church and was known to read his Bible frequently. A graduate of Woodrow Wilson High School in Camden, he entered Temple University's pharmacy school in the fall of 1948 but soon dropped out. At age 28, he was unemployed and supported by his mother, who was estranged from her husband and worked as a packer for a soap company in Camden.
 On the morning of Tuesday, Sept. 6, 1949, Mrs. Unruh fixed her son a breakfast of fried eggs and cereal. Moments later, she was astonished to see him threatening her with a wrench. She ran from the apartment to a friend's home.
 At 9:20 a.m., Mr. Unruh, a slender 6-footer, wearing a brown tropical suit, white shirt and bow tie, stepped into the sun-splashed street and walked to a shoemaker's shop on his block. He pulled out a 9 millimeter German Luger pistol he had purchased at a Philadelphia gun shop in January 1947 and pointed it at the owner, John Pilarchik, 27.
 ''I had leveled the gun at him, neither of us said nothing, and I pulled the trigger,'' Mr. Unruh told a psychiatrist a month later. ''He had a funny look on his face, staggered back and fell to the floor. I realized then he was still alive, so I fired into his head.''
 Next, he went to a tailor shop looking for the owner, Thomas Zegrino, but instead shot the man's wife, Helga, 28, who was there alone.
 Then he entered a barber shop and shot Orris Smith, 6, who was astride a white hobby horse, getting his hair cut as his mother, Catherine, sat beside him.
 The barber, Clark Hoover, 33, was the next victim. In his confession, Mr. Unruh told how the man had ''dodged around the barber chair, making it difficult for me to get a clear shot, but I finally hit him, walked over and then shot into his head.''
 Then Mr. Unruh approached a tavern, but the owner, Frank Engel, having heard the shots, locked the door and fled with his patrons to the rear as Mr. Unruh shot into the bar.
 Next, Mr. Unruh fired into an apartment window and shot Thomas Hamilton, a 2-year-old, in the head. After shooting into a restaurant, he fired through the window of a passing automobile and hit Alvin Day, 24, a television repairman.
 Mr. Engel, who owned a pistol, shot Mr. Unruh in the hip from an upper-floor window of the tavern building, but Mr. Unruh seemed not to notice the wound.
 Having reloaded his pistol, he went to a drugstore owned by Maurice Cohen, 40, whose family had argued with Mr. Unruh over his using the Cohens's gate to take a shortcut from his home to the street. As Mr. Unruh entered, James Hutton, 45, an insurance agent, was emerging. Mr. Unruh shot him in the head.
 Mr. Cohen fled to the roof of his apartment above the drugstore as his wife, Rose, 38, hid in a closet and pushed their son Charles, 12, into another closet. Mr. Unruh shot Mr. Cohen in the back, sending him plunging to the street. He also shot Ms. Cohen, firing through the closet door, and Minnie Cohen, 63, the druggist's mother, as she was trying to call the police from a bedroom. Charles Cohen was unharmed.
 Over the next few minutes, Mr. Unruh shot Helen Matlack Wilson, 37; her son, John, 9; and her mother, Emma Matlack, 68, who were in a car stopped at a red light. He also wounded Charles Peterson, 18, who had approached Mr. Hutton's body outside the drug store, unaware that the gunman was still on the scene.
 On his final stop, Mr. Unruh broke into a home and wounded Madeline Harrie, 36, and her son Armand, 16.
 ''Children screamed as they tumbled over one another to get out of his way,'' Meyer Berger wrote in The New York Times in a 4,000-word account, based on more than 50 interviews, that won a Pulitzer Prize for local reporting under deadline pressure. (He gave the $1,000 prize money to Mr. Unruh's mother.)
 ''Men and women dodged into open shops, the women shrill with panic, men hoarse with fear,'' Mr. Berger wrote. ''No one could quite understand for a time what had been loosed in the block.''
 Mr. Unruh fled to his apartment. Some 50 police officers converged there and blazed away with machine guns, shotguns and pistols.
 During an interlude, the assistant city editor of The Camden Courier-Post, Philip Buxton, phoned the house. Mr. Unruh answered his call.
 Mr. Buxton asked Mr. Unruh how many people he had killed.
 ''I don't know, I haven't counted,'' he said. ''Looks like a pretty good score.''
 ''Why are you killing people?'' Mr. Buxton asked.
 ''I don't know,'' Mr. Unruh replied.
 After the police fired tear gas, Mr. Unruh came outside, his hands held high, his bow tie still in place.
 A search of his room turned up 700 cartridges, a book called ''The Shooter's Bible'' (he had used the building's basement for target practice) and a New Testament Bible.
 In his confession, Mr. Unruh said that the night before the killings, he made a list of people to be targeted: the shoemaker, the tailor, the barber, the druggist. He had nevertheless shot down strangers as well.
 A psychiatric report found that Mr. Unruh had felt his neighbors were persecuting and belittling him, ''that they were thinking of him as a homosexual.''
 The report described him as ''a master of suppressed rage'' who harbored a ''smoldering anger.''
 Mr. Unruh's brother, James, said later that ''since he came home from the service, he didn't seem to be the same.''
 ''He was nervous,'' James Unruh said. 
 His father, Samuel, said Mr. Unruh had ''built a shell around himself we could never penetrate.''
 Moments after Mr. Unruh surrendered, a policeman said to him: ''What's the matter with you? You a psycho?''
 ''I'm no psycho,'' Howard Unruh replied. ''I have a good mind.''
 Mr. Unruh's years in confinement were largely without incident. In 1995, James H. Klein, the public defender who had represented him for two decades, said Mr. Unruh spent most of his time sleeping and watching television. For a while, Mr. Klein said, Mr. Unruh had collected stamps.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Oct. 20 about Howard Unruh, who killed 13 of his neighbors in Camden, N.J., in 1949, misstated the given name of the spokesman for the prosecutor's office in Camden County, who said Mr. Unruh had been in state custody since his arrest. He is Jason Laughlin, not James.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Howard Unruh in custody in 1949. He was later found to have paranoid schizophrenia.
 Mr. Unruh's second-floor apartment, where he fled after the shootings. He came outside after police officers fired tear gas.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE COURIER-POST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RELIGION (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); FIREARMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARMIES (74%); ARRESTS (71%); PARANOIA (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (70%); GERMANY (70%)

CATEGORY: Crime and Law Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



569 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Safety Nets For The Rich

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The headlines that ran side by side on the front page of Saturday's New York Times summed up, inadvertently, the terrible fix that we've allowed our country to fall into.
 The lead headline, in the upper right-hand corner, said: ''U.S. Deficit Rises to $1.4 Trillion; Biggest Since '45.''
 The headline next to it said: ''Bailout Helps Revive Banks, And Bonuses.'' 
 We've spent the last few decades shoveling money at the rich like there was no tomorrow. We abandoned the poor, put an economic stranglehold on the middle class and all but bankrupted the federal government -- while giving the banks and megacorporations and the rest of the swells at the top of the economic pyramid just about everything they've wanted.
 And we still don't seem to have learned the proper lessons. We've allowed so many people to fall into the terrible abyss of unemployment that no one -- not the Obama administration, not the labor unions and most certainly no one in the Republican Party -- has a clue about how to put them back to work.
 Meanwhile, Wall Street is living it up. I'm amazed at how passive the population has remained in the face of this sustained outrage.
 Even as tens of millions of working Americans are struggling to hang onto their jobs and keep a roof over their families' heads, the wise guys of Wall Street are licking their fat-cat chops over yet another round of obscene multibillion-dollar bonuses -- this time thanks to the bailout billions that were sent their way by Uncle Sam, with very little in the way of strings attached.
 Nevermind that the economy remains deeply troubled. As The Times pointed out on Saturday, much of Wall Street ''is minting money.''
 Call it deja voodoo. I wrote a column that ran three days before Christmas in 2007 that focused on the deeply disturbing disconnect between Wall Streeters harvesting a record crop of bonuses -- billions on top of billions -- while working families were having a very hard time making ends meet.
 We would later learn that December 2007 was the very month that the Great Recession began. I wrote in that column: ''Even as the Wall Streeters are high-fiving and ordering up record shipments of Champagne and caviar, the American dream is on life support.''
 So we had an orgy of bonuses just as the recession was taking hold and now another orgy (with taxpayers as the enablers) that is nothing short of an arrogantly pointed finger in the eye of everyone who suffered, and continues to suffer, in this downturn.
 Whether P.T. Barnum actually said it or not, there is a sucker born every minute. American taxpayers might want to take a look in the mirror. If the epithet fits...
 We need to make some fundamental changes in the way we do things in this country. The gamblers and con artists of the financial sector, the very same clowns who did so much to bring the economy down in the first place, are howling self-righteously over the prospect of regulations aimed at curbing the worst aspects of their excessively risky behavior and preventing them from causing yet another economic meltdown.
 We should be going even further. We've institutionalized the idea that there are firms that are too big to fail and, therefore, ''we, the people'' are obliged to see that they don't -- even if that means bankrupting the national treasury and undermining the living standards of ordinary people. What sense does that make?
 If some company is too big to fail, then it's too big to exist. Break it up.
 Why should the general public have to constantly worry that a misstep by the high-wire artists at Goldman Sachs (to take the most obvious example) would put the entire economy in peril? These financial acrobats get the extraordinary benefits of their outlandish risk-taking -- multimillion-dollar paychecks, homes the size of castles -- but the public has to be there to absorb the worst of the pain when they take a terrible fall.
 Enough! Goldman Sachs is thriving while the combined rates of unemployment and underemployment are creeping toward a mind-boggling 20 percent. Two-thirds of all the income gains from the years 2002 to 2007 -- two-thirds! -- went to the top 1 percent of Americans.
 We cannot continue transferring the nation's wealth to those at the apex of the economic pyramid -- which is what we have been doing for the past three decades or so -- while hoping that someday, maybe, the benefits of that transfer will trickle down in the form of steady employment and improved living standards for the many millions of families struggling to make it from day to day.
 That money is never going to trickle down. It's a fairy tale. We're crazy to continue believing it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); FAMILY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CHRISTMAS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



570 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Outlook Drives Wall Street Higher

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street bounded ahead on Monday as investors bet that another round of strong corporate earnings would propel the markets even higher. Better earnings by the toymaker Hasbro, coming on the heels of a stronger-than-expected retail sales report from the government, helped to strengthen hopes that people were again spending money on nonessentials as the economy healed. Intel has said that computer sales are rebounding and sales at Apple, the maker of iPods and iPhones, topped expectations when the company reported a profit after markets closed on Monday.
 Hasbro was down 3.7 percent, to $28.42 a share, after reporting results that included a 2 percent decline in sales. 
 Nevertheless, consumer stocks helped to lead the gains throughout the day. Investors snapped up shares of department stores, hotel and entertainment companies, and of office-supply companies like Office Depot. 
 ''The consumer does appear to be willing to spend,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's. ''They're not totally retrenched.''
 Last week, the government reported that retail sales excluding automobiles rose 0.5 percent in September, even as overall sales dipped with the end of the government's cash-for-clunkers auto rebate program. Economists were encouraged by the gains because they came as unemployment rose to new highs and thousands more homeowners fell behind on their mortgages. The Dow Jones industrial average, which wobbled last week after crossing 10,000, rose 96.28 points, or almost 1 percent, to close at 10,092.19 , and the wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 10.23 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,097.91. The Nasdaq was about 0.9 percent higher at 2,176.32. 
 On a day with so few new economic figures, some analysts were perplexed by the market's gains, suggesting that money was overflowing from safer reservoirs like money-market funds as investors anticipated another week of gains.
 Stock indexes rose more than 1 percent last week after the big banks JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs reported eye-popping profits while Bank of America and Citigroup groaned under the weight of their consumer banking portfolios.
 ''It's more of the same silliness,'' said Joe Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading. ''I think it's price-chasing. Price does not equal value.'' Gannett, the publisher of USA Today and other newspapers, said profit fell 53 percent and revenue was down 18 percent. Advertising sales were down 28 percent, but the decline was less than in the previous two quarters and Gannett's stock rose 8.2 percent, to $14.06 a share. 
 The Federal Reserve helped to stoke optimism by announcing that it was testing mechanisms that could be used to scale back the government's presence in the financial markets. The New York Fed said it could use so-called reverse repurchase agreements to reel in its support measures.
 Over the last year, the Fed has injected hundreds of billions of dollars into the economy by buying up mortgage-backed loans and government debts, opening up low-cost loans to financial companies and pumping money into the markets for securities backed by commercial loans. 
 But as the economy improves, some economists and investors are beginning to wonder whether the Fed can reel in its monetary policies gently enough to avoid knocking the economy back to its knees. In currency markets, the dollar fell for another day against major world currencies, hitting a new low for the year as investors migrated to inflation-resistant investments like gold, and dived into other currency markets. The dollar fell to $1.49 against the euro.
 Oil, gold and other currencies have eclipsed the value of the dollar in recent weeks on growing fears that the United States is running up uncontrollable deficits, and that the recovery in the American economy will lag growth in Asian markets. In a speech on Monday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the United States needed to put its finances in order.
 ''The United States must increase its national saving rate,'' he said. ''The most effective way to accomplish this goal is by establishing a sustainable fiscal trajectory, anchored by a clear commitment to substantially reduce federal deficits over time.''
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 6/32, to 101 30/32. The yield fell to 3.39 percent, from 3.41 percent Friday.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: 3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); SALES REBATES (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); SMARTPHONES (71%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (66%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); GANNETT CO INC (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GCI (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



571 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Apple's Profit Climbs 47% As Sales Gain

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Apple, in its recent history, has overcome nearly every obstacle thrown its way. Now it has surpassed another: the burden of high expectations.
 Apple managed to surprise optimistic investors, posting a 47 percent increase in profit in the fourth quarter and handily beating Wall Street's estimates. Renewed sales of Macintosh laptops and the continued popularity of the iPhone around the world helped to lift Apple's bottom line.
 ''It's a pretty impressive quarter given that consumers are still trying to figure out whether they want to spend again,'' said Gene Munster, a securities analyst at Piper Jaffray. 
 Shares of Apple have already nearly doubled this year, and investors pushed up the stock throughout what appeared to be a profitable summer. On Monday, shares of Apple rose $11.58, or 6 percent, in after-hours trading, after closing at $189.96 in the regular session. Shares passed $200 for the first time since late 2007. Wall Street has been impressed by rebounding momentum in the Mac business and Apple's leadership in the battle for smartphones -- the versatile phones that make calls and run thousands of applications. 
 Moreover, the return of Steven P. Jobs, the chief executive, to the public spotlight at an Apple event in September to introduce new iPods has calmed fears about management turbulence at the company.
 Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., posted particularly strong gains in the computer segment while many of its rivals were still struggling to recover from the recession's impact on consumer spending. Apple said it sold 3.05 million Macs in the quarter, up about 17 percent from the 2.6 million it sold in the same quarter last year. Global PC sales rose 2.3 percent in the third quarter of the year, according to the market tracking firm IDC.
 Mac sales were also helped by renewed back-to-school buying and the June introduction of Snow Leopard, the latest version of its Mac operating system. Macintosh sales have now grown faster than the rest of the PC market in 19 of the last 20 quarters. 
 Apple continued to mine gold from the summer introduction of a new smartphone, the iPhone 3GS. Apple sold 7.4 million phones in the quarter, up from 6.9 million units sold in the year-ago quarter and ahead of Wall Street's expectation of about seven million iPhones.
 But there were indications that the company could have done even better. Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, indicated that demand for the 3GS exceeded expectations and that it took the company until ''early October to get the supply and demand balanced in some countries.''
 Apple executives added that they planned to introduce the iPhone on Oct. 30 in China through a partnership with China Unicom, one of the country's largest mobile carriers. ''This is the largest market in the world in terms of total phones, and it's very important we get started to make it as large as possible in smartphones,'' Mr. Cook said. 
 Not even the iPod, which has been slowly fading as a stand-alone business, could seriously hurt the quarter for Apple. The company sold 10.2 million iPods during the quarter, slightly behind the pace of the 10.4 million iPods that Wall Street had projected for the company. 
 But Apple took pains to point out that sales of the iPod Touch, which can run applications as the iPhone does, had doubled over the same period last year. 
 In the quarter that ended on Sept. 26, Apple said its net income rose to $1.67 billion, or $1.82 a share. That is up from $1.14 billion, or $1.26 a share, in the quarter a year ago. Revenue rose to $9.87 billion, from $7.9 billion last year. 
 That easily beat the already optimistic expectations of analysts, who had projected that Apple would announce revenue of $9.2 billion and net income of $1.42 a share, according to a survey conducted by Thomson Reuters.
 Looking ahead, Apple projected earnings for the December quarter of about $1.70 a share and gross margins that fell short of analysts' predictions. Apple said that new products would have lower margins than their predecessors. Analysts are expecting earnings closer to $1.91 a share, saying that Apple is notoriously conservative in estimating its future profits. 
 Asked about the wave of iPhone competitors like Motorola, Research In Motion and Palm, Apple executives took the opportunity to brag.
 ''We feel very good suiting up and competing against anyone,'' Mr. Cook said. ''People are really just trying to catch up with the first iPhone that was announced two years ago, and we have long since moved beyond that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IPhone sales helped Apple. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B1)
 Customers and their children on iMacs. Apple said renewed sales of laptops helped it beat analysts' estimates last quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); RECESSION (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (61%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (57%); CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LTD (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); PJC (NYSE) (57%); K3ID (SGX) (50%); CHU (NYSE) (50%); 0762 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (59%); STEVEN JOBS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



572 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Fossil Fuels' Hidden Cost Is in Billions, Study Says

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Burning fossil fuels costs the United States about $120 billion a year in health costs, mostly because of thousands of premature deaths from air pollution, the National Academy of Sciences reported in a study issued Monday.
 The damages are caused almost equally by coal and oil, according to the study, which was ordered by Congress. The study set out to measure the costs not incorporated into the price of a kilowatt-hour or a gallon of gasoline or diesel fuel.
The estimates by the academy do not include damages from global warming, which has been linked to the gases produced by burning fossil fuels. The authors said the extent of such damage, and the timing, were too uncertain to estimate. 
 Nor did the study measure damage from burning oil for trains, ships and planes. And it did not include the environmental damage from coal mining or the pollution of rivers with chemicals that were filtered from coal plant smokestacks to keep the air clean.
 ''The largest portion of this is excess mortality -- increased human deaths as a result of criteria air pollutants emitted by power plants and vehicles,'' said Jared L. Cohon, president of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, who led the study committee.
 Nearly 20,000 people die prematurely each year from such causes, according to the study's authors, who valued each life at $6 million based on the dollar in 2000. Those pollutants include small soot particles, which cause lung damage; nitrogen oxides, which contribute to smog; and sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain. 
 The study lends support to arguments that society should pay extra for energy from sources like the wind and the sun, because their indirect costs are extremely small. But it also found that renewable motor fuel, in the form of ethanol from corn, was slightly worse than gasoline in its environmental impact.
 Coal burning was the biggest single source of such external costs . The damages averaged 3.2 cents per kilowatt-hour, compared with 0.16 cents for gas. But the variation among coal plants was enormous.
 The worst plants, generally the oldest and burning coal with the highest sulfur content, were 3.6 times worse than the average, with a cost of nearly 12 cents per kilowatt-hour (which is more than the average retail price of that amount of electricity). 
 The best plants carried a cost of less than a quarter of a penny. Natural gas plants also showed a large variation, but both the best and the worst costs were far smaller than for coal. 
 Such variation suggests that existing technology could be applied to make the electric system a lot cleaner, experts said. One of the study's authors, Maureen L. Cropper, an economist at the University of Maryland, said the findings should be used not to raise the price of electricity based on an average of indirect costs but to measure the cost of cleanup on a plant-by-plant basis.
 The study did not measure damage from pollution-control devices. ''If you're taking the output of a scrubber and dumping it in the Monongahela River, that's not in our study, Professor Cropper said. 
 The study found that operating nuclear plants did not impose significant environmental costs, although uranium mining and processing did. But 95 percent of uranium mining takes place in other countries, the study said. Canada and Australia together account for 44 percent of world production. 
 The committee did not put a dollar value on the risk of a nuclear accident that would produce environmental damage. It also noted the uncertainty of the cost of long-term disposal of high-level wastes.
 The committee said environmental damage from gasoline and diesel fuel cost 1.2 cents to 1.7 cents per mile. A co-author of the study, Daniel S. Greenbaum, president of the Health Effects Institute, said that would come to 23 cents to 38 cents per gallon. Still, Mr. Greenbaum said, ''we were hesitant to make that a central part of our findings,'' because pollution also results from manufacturing cars. 
 The study did not calculate the military cost of protecting fuel imports.
 As for wind energy, the study said it killed birds but not enough to seriously affect populations. A possible exception was raptors, birds of prey that ordinarily eat species whose numbers are being reduced by spinning turbine blades. 
 The study was not kind to ethanol. A mixture of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent unleaded gasoline, or E85, showed slightly higher damages to environment and health than ordinary gasoline, because of the energy required to raise the corn and make ethanol from it. 
 Electric vehicles and vehicles using synthetic diesel fuel, also ranked poorly. The electric vehicles might do better if emissions of heat-trapping gases had been factored in, because they have lower carbon dioxide emissions per mile than gasoline-powered cars. But the cars running on artificial diesel would look slightly worse in that analysis, the study said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); COAL MINING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (87%); BIOFUELS (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); SMOG (78%); ACID RAIN (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (75%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



573 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Officials Hint At Progress Negotiating Climate Deal

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
A two-day meeting of officials from countries responsible for the bulk of the world's greenhouse gas emissions ended Monday in London with hints that rich and developing nations might be able to bridge at least some of their differences on issues hobbling agreement on a new climate treaty. 
 The session was the sixth in a string of informal meetings of ''major economies'' -- 16 countries plus the European Union -- initiated by the Obama administration last spring. 
 The meetings, building on an earlier series of sessions started by the Bush administration, focused on the world's biggest emitters of heat-trapping gases to build momentum toward a new climate treaty when formal negotiations take place in December in Copenhagen. 
 At a news conference after the meeting, officials from the United States and Britain rejected the idea that a deadline set by the world's countries to negotiate a new climate agreement by December would slip.
 Todd Stern, the State Department's special envoy on climate change, said all major countries were committed to seeking ''a strong, pragmatic and solid agreement'' in Copenhagen. 
 Echoing Ed Miliband, the British secretary of state for energy and climate and the chairman of the London session, Mr. Stern added: ''We're not really thinking about a Plan B in that sense.'' 
 Mr. Stern also rejected criticisms by environmental groups and some recent statements from officials in developing countries that the United States was not doing enough to cut emissions at home. While accepting that the United States has the most responsibility for the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere so far, he emphasized that by 2030, two-thirds of emissions could easily be coming from developing countries. 
 Citing actions by President Obama and in Congress, where climate change and energy legislation is creeping forward, Mr. Stern added that from now on, ''The effort by the United States will be absolutely comparable to what the E.U. is doing.'' 
 Mr. Miliband said there was growing accord among nations at the meeting on the level of aid required to help poor countries withstand threats resulting from climate change and adopt less-polluting energy technology. He also reported some progress on findings ways to incorporate what would surely be varied commitments by individual countries into an overarching pact.
 ''I think we've made progress on the architecture,'' he said. In a communique posted online, the participating governments said they would publish a list of actions and partnerships on clean energy technology on Nov. 15. 
 In a speech preceding the final round of talks on Monday, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain admonished attendees to aim for concrete commitments on cutting emissions and on aid for poor countries most exposed to the risks of warming.
 But he also said that all factions in the complicated effort would need to be flexible. ''We cannot compromise with the catastrophe of unchecked climate change, so we must compromise with one another,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: ED MILIBAND (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GORDON BROWN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



574 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Asia Said to Be Leading The Globe Out of Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Monday that Asian nations were pulling the global economy out of its downturn but warned that both Asia and the United States needed to do more to reduce global trade imbalances. 
 Speaking at a conference on Asia hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Mr. Bernanke said Asian countries had bounced back from the global recession faster than the rest of the world and had reported ''impressive'' growth. 
 ''Asia appears to be leading the global economic recovery,'' the Fed chairman said, noting that the region as a whole expanded at an annual rate of 9 percent during the second quarter and that some countries, including China, grew at rates of more than 10 percent.
 But Mr. Bernanke also warned that huge trade imbalances between the United States and the rest of the world had played a central role in the global economic crisis and that they could do so again. 
 ''We were smug,'' Mr. Bernanke said of the United States in a question-and-answer session, referring to the attitude of American policy makers toward the large inflows of cheap money from countries like China that were running huge trade surpluses. The flood of foreign money might not have been a major problem, he said, but the American financial regulatory system was ''inadequate'' in preventing a surge of reckless lending that aggravated the bubble in housing prices. 
 Mr. Bernanke's comments represented a sobering contrast to his assertions before the housing collapse that the main reason for the United States' soaring foreign debt had less to do with American tendencies to spend too much than with a ''global savings glut'' in the rest of the world.
 Echoing the declarations last month by leaders from the Group of 20 industrialized and large emerging nations, Mr. Bernanke said the United States needed to get its fiscal house in order while Asian countries needed to rely less on exports for their growth.
 ''The United States must increase its national saving rate,'' he said. ''The most effective way to accomplish this goal is by establishing a sustainable fiscal trajectory, anchored by a clear commitment to substantially reduce federal deficits over time.''
 The federal deficit for the 2009 fiscal year soared to $1.4 trillion, almost triple the deficit in 2008, and budget analysts predict that budget deficits will average almost $1 trillion a year over the next decade. 
 By the same token, he said, Asian countries needed to rely less on exports and more on their consumption at home for their economic growth. One way to increase Asian household consumption, he said, would be for countries like China to increase their social safety net programs and reduce the uncertainty that currently hangs over many consumers. 
 Mr. Bernanke noted that global trade and financial imbalances had narrowed considerably since the crisis began, largely because the volume of international trade contracted by 20 percent from its peak before the crisis.
 But he cautioned that the imbalances could widen again as economic growth revived. 
 ''Admittedly, just as increasing private saving in the United States is challenging, promoting consumption in a high-saving country is not necessarily straightforward,'' Mr. Bernanke conceded.
 Indeed, analysts and investors in Asia have become increasingly worried about the danger of new bubbles in Asian asset prices, fostered by aggressive stimulus policies in China and by renewed attempts by policy makers in Asia to prop up the value of the dollar.
 Mr. Bernanke avoided what was in many ways the elephant in the room: the value of the United States dollar. The dollar has dropped sharply in recent weeks against the euro and the Japanese yen, a move that has helped increase American exports by making them cheaper in some foreign markets. But the dollar has not budged in more than a year against China's renminbi, which the Chinese continue to tightly manage and which many economists say remains greatly undervalued.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The United States must increase its national saving rate,'' Ben S. Bernanke said at a conference on Asia on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



575 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Home Alone

 BODY:
After-school programs are a cost-effective way to boost student achievement, reduce juvenile crime and help overstressed working parents. Yet a new study finds that the number of after-school slots continues to lag far behind parents' demand. Even in these hard economic times, it should be possible to narrow the gap. 
 There is good news in the study -- ''America After 3'' -- by the Afterschool Alliance, a nonprofit advocacy group. It reports a big increase in the number of schoolchildren participating in after-school programs: 8.4 million youngsters compared with 6.5 million in 2004. Parents say they are generally satisfied with the programs their children attend.
 But the most striking and disturbing finding is the large number of latchkey children -- children left alone and unsupervised at the end of the regular school day: 15.1 million -- more than a quarter of America's schoolchildren and an 800,000 increase from 2004. That number includes 4 percent of elementary school students and 30 percent of middle school students who are on their own until their parents return home.
 Parents of 18.5 million students say they would enroll their children in an after-school program if one were available. These numbers represent a huge missed opportunity. A majority of publicly financed after-school programs serve low-income students. They offer help with schoolwork, sports activities and other enrichment known to translate into improved school attendance and higher graduation rates and lower rates of teenage pregnancy, drinking, delinquency and drug use.
 During the 2008 campaign, then-Senator Barack Obama promised that he would double the financing for after-school programs under the No Child Left Behind Act. His budget plan unveiled in February called for no increase in the current $1.1 billion appropriation. The House has approved a spending bill that adds another $50 million for after-school programs. The Senate should at least agree to that. 
 President Obama, his education secretary, Arne Duncan, and Congress must all acknowledge that a lot more is needed -- and quickly come up with a plan to increase financing for quality after-school programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); CHILDREN (92%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (92%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); PARENTING (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PARENTS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); APPROPRIATIONS (86%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); JUVENILE CRIME (73%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



576 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Basic Medicare Premium to Rise 15% Next Year

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The basic Medicare premium will shoot up next year by 15 percent, to $110.50 a month, federal officials said Monday.
 The increase means that monthly premiums would top $100 for the first time, a stark indication of the rise in medical costs that is driving the debate in Congress about a broad overhaul of the health care system.
 About 12 million people, or 27 percent of Medicare beneficiaries, will have to pay higher premiums or have the additional amounts paid on their behalf. The other 73 percent will be shielded from the increase because, under federal law, their Medicare premiums cannot go up more than the increase in their Social Security benefits, and Social Security officials announced last week that there would be no increase in benefits in 2010 because inflation had been extremely low. 
 Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, urged the Senate to approve a bill, already passed by the House, to block the scheduled increase in Medicare premiums. 
 ''We are in tremendously difficult economic times, and seniors are being hit particularly hard,'' Ms. Sebelius said. ''The last thing seniors need right now is a substantial increase in their Medicare premiums, and many seniors will see such an increase if no action is taken.''
 Among those who face higher premiums next year are new Medicare beneficiaries, high-income people and those whose Medicare premiums are paid by Medicaid. Premiums can be as high as $353.60 a month, or more than $4,200 a year, for Medicare beneficiaries who file tax returns with adjusted gross income greater than $214,000 for an individual or $428,000 for a couple.
 The higher premiums will impose ''an additional and significant burden'' on states, which help pay Medicaid costs, along with the federal government.
 The House bill was passed, 406 to 18, on Sept. 24. Among those who voted against it was the Democratic leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, who said he saw no need to help multimillionaires at a time when the nation was struggling to rein in entitlement programs.
 While lawmakers considered whether to freeze Medicare premiums, a handful of senators met behind closed doors on Monday to work out a compromise health care bill to cover the uninsured.
 One participant, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, said senators were considering new ideas to finesse disagreements over whether the government should offer its own health insurance plan, in competition with private insurers.
 Under one proposal, he said, the government would create a public plan, but states could ''opt out'' if they wanted to devise and operate their own insurance programs.
 The meeting, convened by the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, included Mr. Baucus and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, who presided over the health committee when it approved a sweeping health care bill in July.
 Mr. Reid said he hoped to take a compromise bill to the Senate floor early next month. But that assumes rapid progress in negotiations and a quick analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, to confirm whether the 10-year cost of the bill is under the $900 billion ceiling set by President Obama.
 The Finance Committee approved a detailed outline of a sweeping health care bill last week. Mr. Baucus formally introduced the bill, a 1,502-page document, on Monday. 
 The Senate is debating a separate bill to prevent deep cuts in Medicare payments to doctors. The bill would not offset any of the costs, estimated at $247 billion over the next 10 years.
 Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, said: ''Of course, we need to fix doctors' reimbursement. But it needs to be paid for. We can't just add a quarter-trillion dollars to the national debt.''
 Democrats said the bill simply recognized political reality. In recent years, they said, Congress has repeatedly stepped in to prevent cuts in Medicare payments to doctors, and it is likely to do so in the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, on his way to a meeting Monday to discuss health care legislation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (95%); MEDICARE (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (76%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (67%); HARRY REID (56%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%); STENY HOYER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



577 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Field Study: Just How Relevant Is Political Science?

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
After Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, this month proposed prohibiting the National Science Foundation from ''wasting any federal research funding on political science projects,'' political scientists rallied in opposition, pointing out that one of this year's Nobel winners had been a frequent recipient of the very program now under attack. 
 Yet even some of the most vehement critics of the Coburn proposal acknowledge that political scientists themselves vigorously debate the field's direction, what sort of questions it pursues, even how useful the research is. 
 Much of the political science work financed by the National Science Foundation is both rigorous and valuable, said Jeffrey C. Isaac, a professor at Indiana University in Bloomington, where one new winner of the Nobel in economic science, the political scientist Elinor Ostrom, teaches. ''But we're kidding ourselves if we think this research typically has the obvious public benefit we claim for it,'' he said. ''We political scientists can and should do a better job of making the public relevance of our work clearer and of doing more relevant work.'' 
 Mr. Isaac is the editor of Perspectives on Politics, a journal that was created by the field's professional organization to bridge the divide after a group of political scientists led a revolt against the growing influence of statistical methods and mathematics-based models in the discipline. In 2000 an anonymous political scientist who called himself Mr. Perestroika roused scores of colleagues to protest the organization, the American Political Science Association, and its flagship journal, The American Political Science Review, arguing that the two were marginalizing scholars who focused on traditional research based on history, culture and archives. 
 Though there is still jockeying over jobs, power and prestige -- particularly in an era of shrinking budgets -- much of that animus has quieted, and most political scientists agree that a wide range of approaches makes sense. 
 What remains, though, is a nagging concern that the field is not producing work that matters. ''The danger is that political science is moving in the direction of saying more and more about less and less,'' said Joseph Nye, a professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, whose work has been particularly influential among American policy makers. ''There are parts of the academy which, in the effort to be scientific, feel we should stay away from policy,'' Mr. Nye said, that ''it interferes with the science.''
 In his view statistical techniques too often determine what kind of research political scientists do, pushing them further into narrow specializations cut off from real-world concerns. The motivation to be precise, Mr. Nye warned, has overtaken the impulse to be relevant.
 In recent years he and other scholars, including Robert Putnam and Theda Skocpol, both former presidents of the American Political Science Association, have urged colleagues not to shy away from ''the big questions.''
 Graduate students discussing their field, said Peter Katzenstein, a political science professor at Cornell University, often speak in terms of ''an interesting puzzle,'' a small intellectual conundrum that tests the ingenuity of the solver, rather than the large, sloppy and unmanageable problems that occur in real life. 
 ''This is the great divide on what we are doing,'' he said, adding that political scientists did not agree on the unit of analysis (whether the focus should be on the individual or social relationships), the source of knowledge or how to measure things.
 Rogers Smith, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania who has been active in the ''Perestroika'' movement, said that the question should determine the method. If you want to test cause and effect, ''quantitative methods are the preferred way to go,'' he said, but they can't tell ''how political phenomena should be understood and interpreted'' -- whether a protest, for instance, is the result of a genuine social movement or an interest group, whether it is religious or secular.
 Arthur Lupia, a professor in the University of Michigan's political science department, said he was using the scientific method to understand what processes and institutions were necessary for a democratic society to function. 
 Mr. Lupia is the lead investigator on one of the projects financed by the National Science Foundation that Senator Coburn has attacked: the American National Election Studies. Senator Coburn has maintained that commentators on CNN, Fox News, MSNBC and other news media outlets ''provide a myriad of viewpoints to answer the same questions.'' He has argued that the $91.3 million that the foundation spent on social science projects over the last 10 years should have gone to biology, chemistry or pharmaceutical science.
 Mr. Lupia, whose background is in applied mathematics and economics, concedes that political science is not quite like the natural sciences. First, the subjects under study ''can argue back.'' But he maintains that it uses the same rigorous mechanisms to evaluate observations as any other science. 
 The elections project, which has been financed by the foundation in various forms for more than three decades and has involved 700 scientists, tracks why citizens vote and how they respond to elections. The database is used by thousands of scholars, and has been widely praised as illuminating the question of why democracy works. 
 No date has been set for a vote on Senator Coburn's proposal, which was introduced on Oct. 7. Yet even as he is trying to restrict National Science Foundation financing of social science, the Defense Department has been recruiting scholars in the same fields to work on security issues like terrorism, Iraq and China's military. The nation must embrace ''eggheads and ideas,'' Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has said, to meet potential national threats. 
 Some Defense Department grants were awarded by the Pentagon through a new program titled Minerva; others were distributed through the National Science Foundation because it has experience in grant making and is apolitical. 
 As for those who criticize quantitative analysis as too narrow, Mr. Lupia said that the big questions were precisely what interested him. His work has been used by the World Bank and government officials in India, for example, to figure out which villages had sufficient institutions and practices to ensure that money earmarked to build a water system would not end up in someone's pocket. Political science can also help determine what institutions and arrangements are needed to help a dictatorship make the transition to a democracy, he added. 
 After the fall of Communism, ''when Eastern European governments were writing their constitutions, I can guarantee you they weren't calling George Stephanopoulos,'' Mr. Lupia said. 
 ''I try to identify problems and then identify solutions to them,'' he said, ''to find the type of scientific method'' that can answer the question.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, left, seeks to end government grants to political science projects, including one that the Nobel laureate Elinor Ostrom, right, took part in.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RYAN DORGAN)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCIENCE (97%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); POLITICS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); STATISTICAL METHOD (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (91%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: TOM COBURN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



578 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Religion and Hiring

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Faith-Based Discrimination'' (editorial, Oct. 14):
 The Civil Rights Act of 1964 guarantees the right of religious organizations to consider religion in hiring. The law does not strip them of this right when they are competitively awarded federal grants to serve the poor. 
 The 1993 Religious Freedom Restoration Act, signed by President Bill Clinton, explicitly applies to ''all federal law.'' Including grant appropriations is hardly a ''far-fetched interpretation'' by the Justice Department. No court has held otherwise.
 For decades, organizations representing many faiths have partnered with our government to deliver social services to the poor and vulnerable here and overseas without proselytizing or in any way discriminating against those they serve.
 How is it good policy to disenfranchise trusted institutions by forcing them to abandon their identities and values -- especially in a time of unprecedented economic hardship when we need them most? We hope wiser heads will prevail. Richard Stearns
 Federal Way, Wash., Oct. 14, 2009
 The writer is president of USA World Vision, a Christian relief and development organization, which was the subject of a 2007 Justice Department memo mentioned in the editorial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (91%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (54%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (76%); WORLD VISION (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



579 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Planners Accept Proposal For Mall at Bronx Armory

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
The City Planning Commission approved a controversial plan on Monday to turn the Kingsbridge Armory, a soaring red-brick castle in the northwest Bronx, into a mall that will include a large department store, dozens of shops and a movie theater.
 The developer, the Related Companies, says the $310 million project will bring jobs and businesses to the working-class neighborhood while giving new life to a neglected landmark that has sat vacant for more than a decade. 
 But the development has many detractors, among them Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. and a coalition of labor, religious and local groups. They argue Related should promise employees a ''living'' wage, allow workers to form a union and provide community space on the site, among other demands.
 The vote was 8 to 4, with one member of the commission, Maria M. Del Toro, having recused herself from the vote. Dozens of protesters holding placards -- ''Say no way to poverty pay'' -- packed the room.
 Mr. Diaz's representative on the Planning Commission voted no, as did the representatives of the Manhattan and Brooklyn borough presidents and the city's public advocate. The City Council is to vote on the project within 50 days.
 The armory project ''represents the most significant private investment in the northwest Bronx in generations,'' Amanda Burden, a planning commissioner, said before she voted in favor of the development.
 Related has been offered extensive subsidies and tax incentives for the project, including more than $40 million in federal and state historic tax credits. The city also spent $30 million to replace the roof. Under the terms of the proposed deal, Related will pay $5 million for the property, which is a landmark. The company says the project will create 1,000 construction jobs and 1,200 permanent ones.
 The Kingsbridge Armory project is the latest in a string of recent, large developments that have created controversy in the Bronx, where 28 percent of residents live in poverty, according to census data, making it the poorest urban county in the nation.
 The Gateway Mall, also built by Related, opened this past spring and has drawn criticism for offering low-wage jobs, hurting local businesses and charging parking fees. The new Yankee Stadium, just blocks away, has left many residents upset over the loss of park land. 
 Mr. Diaz and a coalition of neighborhood advocates have vowed that this time, the community would shape the project as much as the developer. But Monday's vote was a blow to their cause.
 The opposition's top priority has been fighting for a pledge that the jobs created by the armory project pay a ''living'' wage and offer benefits. 
 Jesse Masyr, a lawyer for Related, said requiring a living wage would force prospective tenants to rent space elsewhere. ''We're opposed to imposing an economic penalty to tenants that come to our site that doesn't exist literally across the street or anywhere else in New York City,'' he said.
 In a statement, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg praised the commission vote, calling the project ''an enormous opportunity to revitalize it as a hub of activity and jobs in the West Bronx.''
 On the other side, presidents of five of the city's largest labor unions recently sent letters to City Council members urging them to demand a living-wage pledge, while Richard Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., visited the armory last month to offer his support.
 The Kingsbridge Armory, with its impressive turrets, looms over its low-rise neighbors, a dramatic standout on the local skyline. The building's first resident was the National Guard's Eighth Coastal Artillery Regiment, which moved in when the armory was completed in 1917. In the decades since, the building has been home to a women's homeless shelter, concerts and dog shows.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LIVING WAGE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TAX LAW (69%); LITIGATION (68%); POVERTY RATES (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); RELIGION (55%); CENSUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



580 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Financial Giants Donating Little To Obama Party

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Griff Palmer contributed research from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Wall Street giants that received a financial lifeline from Washington may have no compunction about paying big bonuses to their dealmakers and traders. But their willingness to deliver ''thank you'' gifts to President Obama and the Democrats is another question altogether.
 Mr. Obama will fly to New York on Tuesday for a lavish Democratic Party fund-raising dinner at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel for about 200 big donors. Each donor is paying the legal maximum of $30,400 and is allowed to take a date. Four of the seven ''co-chairs'' listed on the invitation work in finance, and Democratic Party organizers say they expect that about a third of the attendees will come from the industry. 
 But from the financial giants like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup that received federal bailout money -- and whose bankers raised millions of dollars for Mr. Obama's election -- only a half-dozen or fewer are expected to attend (estimated total contribution: $91,200).
 Part of the reason, several Democratic fund-raisers and executives said, is a fear of getting caught in the public rage over the perception that Wall Street titans profiting from their government bailout may use their winnings to give back to Washington in return. And the timing of the event, as the industry lobbies against proposals for tighter regulations to address the underlying causes of last year's meltdown on Wall Street, has only added to the worry over public appearances. 
 ''There are sensitivities there,'' said Scott Talbot, a lobbyist for the industry's Financial Services Roundtable. Political contributions ''can make a donor a target,'' Mr. Talbot said. Many involved, though, say the low attendance from those Wall Street giants also reflected a broader disenchantment with Mr. Obama over the angry language emanating from the White House over the million-dollar bonuses and anti-regulatory lobbying. 
 ''There is some failure in the finance industry to appreciate the level of public antagonism toward whatever Wall Street symbolizes,'' said Orin Kramer, a partner in an investment firm who is a Democratic fund-raiser and one of the event's chairmen. ''But in order to save the capitalist system, the administration has to be responsive to the public mood, and that is a nuance which can get lost on Wall Street.''
 Dr. Daniel E. Fass, another chairman of the event who lives surrounded by financiers in Greenwich, Conn., said: ''The investment community feels very put-upon. They feel there is no reason why they shouldn't earn $1 million to $200 million a year, and they don't want to be held responsible for the global financial meltdown.'' Dr. Fass added, ''How much that will be reflected in their support for the president remains to be seen.''
 Mr. Obama remains a potent fund-raising draw. Plunging into the 2010 midterm campaigns last week, he raised more than $3 million in one night in San Francisco, speaking at a similar $30,400-a-couple dinner and a larger rally with tickets at $1,000 and under. 
 In addition to the big-ticket dinner on Tuesday, Mr. Obama will also address a more small-d democratic event at New York's Hammerstein Ballroom, where roughly 2,500 donors paying $1,000 or less will also make cellphone calls to promote his health care overhaul. Over the next five days he will appear at fund-raisers for Bill Owens, a candidate for a House seat in New York; Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey (himself a former Goldman Sachs banker); Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts; and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut. 
 Democratic fund-raisers say the economic slump has dampened fund-raising across every industry. Wall Street has lost Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers to consolidation in last year's credit crunch. Some former Obama fund-raisers on Wall Street have ascended to jobs in the administration, like Michael Froman, a former top Citigroup executive who is now an adviser on economics and national security. 
 Current Democratic fund-raisers say their 2008 take from Wall Street may also have benefited from the personal connections of the party's chief fund-raiser that year, Philip D. Murphy, a former top executive at Goldman Sachs. (He is now ambassador to Germany). And as in recent years, Democrats are raising far more from Wall Street executives than Republicans, according to campaign finance data sorted by the Center for Responsive Politics. 
 The Democrats, including House and Senate party committees and the party itself, raised about $5.4 million in the first eight months of the year, while the Republicans took in just $2.7 million.
 So far in the current election cycle, though, Wall Street accounts for less than half as much of the Democratic Party's fund-raising as it did in 2008: 3 percent, or about $1.5 million out of a total $53.6 million in the eight-month period, compared with about 6 percent, or $15.3 million out of $260.1 million during the last election. (Republicans relied more heavily on their party to support their presidential candidate in 2008, and the party's Wall Street fund-raising has fallen even further.) 
 Fund-raisers say smaller but lucrative businesses like hedge funds and private equity firms now account for more of Wall Street's political contributions than the big banks that received bailout money, with the possible exception of the famously generous executives of Goldman Sachs. 
 Employees associated with the financial firms that received bailout money from the federal government contributed almost $70,000 to the Democratic Party in the first half of this year. Most of that, $60,800, came from one couple who each contributed the legal limit. At the time of the donation, the husband, John M. Noel, had recently retired as head of a unit of the insurance giant AIG called AIG Travel Guard. 
 Mr. Obama, though, still has the loyalty of other powerful friends on Wall Street. Among the other chairmen of the Tuesday dinner in New York is Robert Wolf, head of the American investment banking division of the Swiss giant UBS Group. Mr. Wolf raised more than $500,000 for Mr. Obama's campaign and sits on a White House panel of outside economic advisers.
 Mr. Wolf does not have to worry about the same appearance problems as Wall Street rivals, however. His firm was bailed out by the government of Switzerland, not the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, who spoke on Wall Street last month, is scheduled to return to New York on Tuesday for fund-raising events.
 As Mr. Obama addressed members of the financial industry inside Federal Hall last month, protesters rallied outside. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



581 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2280 words

HEADLINE: The Race to Save Lehman

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
In the summer of 2008, two months before Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, Richard S. Fuld Jr., the firm's chairman, was continuing his desperate efforts to find a lifeline. They had begun in March, shortly after the demise of Bear Stearns, when Mr. Fuld called the legendary investor Warren E. Buffett seeking a capital infusion, to no avail. Lehman had raised money elsewhere, but that didn't help for long, and its condition again was worsening. 
 This article is adapted from ''Too Big to Fail: How Wall Street and Washington Fought to Save the Financial System -- And Themselves.'' The book, being published Tuesday by Viking, reveals how officials in Washington, worried about the impact of Lehman's possible failure on the financial system, for months helped orchestrate efforts by Mr. Fuld to seek a solution for the firm and stave off its collapse. The conversations recounted are based on hundreds of hours of interviews with dozens of participants, many of whom agreed to speak on the condition that they not be identified as sources.
 ''I know it's not true, you know it's not true.'' 
 Richard Fuld, as tightly wound as ever, was raging in his office on the morning of Thursday, July 10, 2008, to one of his lieutenants. Lehman Brothers' stock had opened down 12 percent, to an eight-year low, in response to a rumor that the Pacific Investment Management Company, the world's biggest bond fund, had stopped trading with the firm. Speculation also was swirling that SAC Capital Advisors, Steven A. Cohen's hedge fund, was also no longer trading with Lehman. ''You've got to call these guys and get them to put out a statement,'' Mr. Fuld said.
 The constant stream of bad news was hampering Mr. Fuld's efforts to raise more capital. He and his investment banking team had been reaching out to at least a dozen prospects -- Royal Bank of Canada, HSBC and General Electric among them -- but was coming up empty. 
 Increasingly desperate that morning -- ''I feel like I'm playing Whack-a-Mole,'' he complained to his peers -- Mr. Fuld decided to call his old friend John Mack, the chief executive at Morgan Stanley, the second-largest investment bank after Goldman Sachs. After dialing Morgan's New York office, Mr. Fuld was transferred to Paris, where Mr. Mack was visiting clients in the firm's ornate headquarters, a former hotel on the Rue de Monceau.
 After some mutual disparagement of the markets, the rumors and the pressure on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Mr. Fuld asked candidly: ''Can't we try to do something together?'' It was a bold question and Mr. Mack had suspected it was the reason for the call. While he didn't believe that he'd be interested in such a prospect, he was willing to hear Mr. Fuld out.
 ''We'll come over to your offices,'' Mr. Fuld, clearly anxious, said.
 ''No, no, that makes no sense. What if someone sees you coming into the building?'' Mr. Mack asked. ''We're not going to do that. Come to my house, we'll all meet at my house.''
 On Saturday morning, Mr. Fuld pulled up to Mr. Mack's mansion in Rye, N.Y. Despite the beautiful weather, he was tense. He could already imagine the headlines if it leaked.
 The Morgan Stanley team had arrived and was socializing in the dining room, where Mr. Mack's wife, Christy, had put out plates of food she had ordered from the local deli. There was Walid Chammah and James Gorman, the firm's co-presidents; Paul Taubman, the firm's head of investment banking; and Mitch Petrick, head of corporate credit and principal investments.
 Bart McDade, Mr. Fuld's new No. 2, showed up next, dressed in a golf shirt and khakis. Skip McGee, the firm's head of investment banking, was running late; his driver got lost.
 As the group took their seats on sofas around a coffee table, an awkward silence followed; no one knew exactly how to begin.
 Mr. Fuld looked at Mr. Mack as if to say, It's your house, you start. Mr. Mack imperturbably glared back, You asked for the meeting. It's your show.
 ''Well, I'll kick it off,'' Mr. Fuld finally said. ''I'm not even sure why we're here, but let's give it a shot.''
 ''Maybe there's nothing to do,'' Mr. Mack said in frustration as he noticed the discomfort around the room.
 ''No, no, no,'' Mr. Fuld hurriedly interjected. ''We should talk.''
 He began by discussing the possibility of selling Neuberger Berman, Lehman's asset management business and one of its crown jewels. He also suggested that Morgan might buy Lehman's headquarters on Seventh Avenue -- the same building that had been Morgan Stanley's until Philip Purcell, the firm's former C.E.O., sold it to Lehman after 9/11. The irony would be rich.
 ''Well,'' said Mr. Mack, not entirely sure what Mr. Fuld was proposing, ''there are ways we can, you know, there are ways we can work together.'' He wanted to segue the conversation to Lehman's internal numbers, because even if nothing were going to come of the meeting, it would be helpful to Morgan Stanley to get at least a peek at what was going on inside the firm.
 The Morgan team began to throw out a barrage of questions: How are things marked? they asked, Wall Street jargon for how the assets were valued. Were you able to sell them inside your marks? How much business has left the firm?
 In the middle of the conversation, Mr. Fuld's cellphone rang, and to the amazement of the group, he excused himself and retreated to the kitchen. The Morgan Stanley side was perplexed: Was Lehman working on another deal at the same time?
 What they didn't know was that the caller was Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., at his office, checking in on Mr. Fuld.
 When Mr. Fuld returned to the living room, the conversation continued. But the meeting ended with no agreement and what seemed like no incentive to keep talking. ''Was he offering to merge with us?'' Mr. Mack asked after the Lehman executives departed. 
 ''This is delusional,'' Mr. Gorman told his Morgan Stanley colleagues. Mr. Taubman had other worries. Maybe they were being used to help Lehman goose its stock price? ''If I were their guys, I'd want to put my own spin on this.''
 A Search for Answers
 Mr. Fuld, discouraged but undeterred, drove to Lehman's headquarters in Manhattan, racing down the Henry Hudson Parkway.
 He had scheduled a call that Saturday afternoon with Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who was helping manage the financial crisis.
 Mr. Fuld's outside lawyer, Rodgin Cohen, chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell, had recently suggested an idea to help stabilize the firm: to voluntarily turn itself into a bank holding company. The move, Mr. Cohen had explained, would make it easier for Lehman to borrow money from the Fed ''just like Citigroup or JPMorgan.'' 
 Mr. Cohen, a 64-year-old, mild-mannered mandarin from West Virginia, was one of the most influential and yet least well-known people on Wall Street. Pacing in his hotel room in Philadelphia before the wedding of his niece that night, he joined the call between Lehman and the New York Fed.
 ''We're giving serious consideration to becoming a bank holding company,'' Mr. Fuld started out by saying. ''We think it would put us in a much better place.'' He suggested that Lehman could use a small industrial bank it owned in Utah to take deposits to comply with the regulations.
 Mr. Geithner, who was joined on the call by his general counsel, Tom Baxter, was apprehensive. ''Have you considered all the implications?'' he asked.
 Mr. Baxter, who had cut short a trip to Martha's Vineyard to participate, walked through some of the requirements, which would transform Lehman's aggressive culture, minimizing risk and making it a more staid institution, in league with traditional banks.
 Regardless of the technical issues, Mr. Geithner said, ''I'm a little worried you could be seen as acting in desperation,'' and the signal that Lehman would send to the markets with such a move.
 Exhausting Their Options
 Mr. Fuld ended his call deflated. Later that evening, Mr. Fuld called Mr. Cohen, finding his lawyer in the waiting room of a hospital, attending to a cousin who had become ill at the wedding.
 It was time to consider a different deal, he told Mr. Cohen. ''Can you reach out to Bank of America?'' Still standing in the emergency waiting room of the hospital, Mr. Cohen found Greg Curl, Bank of America's top deal banker, on his cellphone in Charlotte, N.C., where the bank was based. Mr. Curl, a 60-year-old former naval intelligence officer, had helped orchestrate nearly all of the many deals Bank of America had made over the last decade.
 ''Do you have any interest in doing a deal? Of all the institutions we've been considering, you'd be the best fit,'' Mr. Cohen said.
 Mr. Curl, though intrigued to be getting a call on a Saturday night, was noncommittal; he could tell they must be desperate. ''Hmm ... let me talk to the boss,'' he said. ''I'll call you right back.'' (The boss was Ken Lewis, the silver-haired chief executive of Bank of America.) 
 A half-hour later, Mr. Curl called back to say he'd hear them out, and Mr. Cohen set up a three-way call with Mr. Fuld.
 ''We can be your investment banking arm,'' Mr. Fuld explained, the idea being for Bank of America to take a minority position in Lehman and for the two to merge their investment banking groups. He invited Mr. Curl to meet in person.
 Dressed in a blazer and slacks, Mr. Curl arrived at Sullivan & Cromwell's Midtown offices in the Seagram Building on Sunday afternoon, July 13, having flown to New York from Charlotte that morning on one of his bank's five private jets.
 Mr. Fuld walked him though his proposal. He wanted to sell a stake of up to one-third of Lehman to Bank of America and merge their investment banking operations under the Lehman umbrella.
 Mr. Curl was dumbfounded, though he characteristically gave no sign of what he was thinking. Far from the plea for help he had been expecting, the pitch he was hearing struck him as a reverse takeover: Bank of America would be paying Mr. Fuld to run its investment banking franchise for it.
 Mr. Curl said he was interested, but that he and Mr. Lewis often disagreed about whether they should acquire an investment bank or continue buying other commercial banks. 
 ''I'd prefer a deal with you,'' Mr. Curl continued, ''but to be honest, Ken would probably prefer to buy Merrill or Morgan.''
 Mr. Fuld was confused. What was Mr. Curl signaling?
 ''So do you think we have something here?'' Mr. Fuld asked.
 ''I don't know,'' Mr. Curl replied. ''I need to talk to the boss. It's obviously his decision.'' 
 Even before meeting with Mr. Curl, Mr. Fuld had been ringing Mr. Paulson about Bank of America, trying to get Mr. Paulson to make a call on behalf of Lehman. ''I think it's a hard sell, but I think the only way you're going to do it is go to him directly,'' Mr. Paulson had told him. ''I'm not going to call Ken Lewis and tell him to buy Lehman Brothers.''
 Meeting in Secret
 To keep the talks alive after the session at Sullivan & Cromwell, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Geithner over the course of the next week arranged a secret meeting between Mr. Fuld and Mr. Lewis.
 It would take place at a previously scheduled event on the evening of Monday, July 21, in New York. Mr. Paulson was being honored at a dinner at the New York Fed in Lower Manhattan, organized by Mr. Geithner as an opportunity for the secretary to get together with top leaders from JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, as well as Mr. Fuld and Mr. Lewis.
 As the dinner was ending, Mr. Geithner, approached Mr. Lewis and, leaning close, whispered, ''I believe you have a meeting with Dick.''
 ''Yeah, I do,'' Mr. Lewis replied.
 Mr. Geithner gave him directions to a side room where the two could speak in private. He had apparently already given Mr. Fuld the same instructions, because Mr. Lewis noticed him across the room looking back at them like a nervous date. Seeing Mr. Fuld start to walk in one direction, Mr. Lewis headed in the other; with half of Wall Street looking on, the last thing either of them needed was to have word of their meeting get out.
 The two men eventually doubled back and found the room. Mr. Fuld explained that he would want at least $25 a share from Bank of America to buy Lehman; Lehman's shares had closed that day at $18.32. Mr. Lewis thought the number was far too high and couldn't see the strategic rationale. Unless he could buy the firm for next to nothing, the deal wasn't worth it. But he held his tongue.
 Two days later, he called Mr. Fuld back.
 ''I don't think this is going to work for us,'' Mr. Lewis said as diplomatically as he could, while leaving open the possibility that they could discuss the matter again.
 Mr. Fuld was beside himself. He called Mr. Paulson to relay the bad news. The only possible suitor left was a group of Korean banks, who had expressed an interest in a separate deal. Mr. Fuld pressed Mr. Paulson to call them on his behalf -- a request that Mr. Paulson resisted.
 ''I'm not going to pick up the phone and call the Koreans,'' Mr. Paulson told him, exasperated. ''Dick, if they call me and want to ask questions, I'll do what I can to be constructive.''
 He added, ''If you want to scare someone, call them up and tell them I said they should buy Lehman Brothers.''
 Without the direct involvement of Mr. Paulson, Lehman pursued a deal with the Koreans. But that, too, fell through in August, after a visit by Korean bank executives to New York. A month later, two last-ditch efforts by Washington -- to bring Bank of America back into the mix or broker a sale of Lehman to Barclays, the British bank -- failed. Lehman was history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The players in a Wall Street flameout in 2008. From top, Kenneth D. Lewis, of Bank of America
John J. Mack, of Morgan Stanley
Richard S. Fuld Jr., of Lehman Brothers
and Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM TOP, LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS
CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS
CARL DE SOUZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chairman of Lehman Brothers, was on Capitol Hill in October 2008 to testify at a House hearing on his company's bankruptcy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS)
Outside the London office of Lehman Brothers on Sept. 15, 2008, the day the company declared bankruptcy and helped to touch off a global crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WINNING/REUTERS)
People seeking work at a job fair in June in Chicago. The turmoil on Wall Street was met with a recession and a drumbeat of job losses nationwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)
''Too Big to Fail,'' by Andrew Ross Sorkin, is being published Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRA MONTALTO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: THE LAST SIX MONTHS OF LEHMAN: MARCH 2008: MARCH 17 JPMorgan Chase strikes a deal to buy Bear Stearns. MARCH 28 Lehman Brothers' chief executive, Richard S. Fuld Jr., reaches out to Warren Buffett to make a $4 billion investment. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, follows up. MARCH 31 Lehman raises $3 billion from a series of investors, not including Mr. Buffett.
APRIL: APRIL 15 Mr. Fuld says, ''The worst of the impact of the financial markets is behind us.'' He adds, ''I will hurt the shorts, and that is my goal.''
JUNE: JUNE 6 Word leaks out of Lehman's efforts to sell a stake in the firm to the Korean Development Corporation. JUNE 9 Lehman reports a $2.8 billion loss in the second quarter and announces that it has raised $6 billion in new capital. JUNE 12 Joseph M. Gregory, Lehman's president and Mr. Fuld's good friend, resigns, along with Erin M. Callan, the firm's chief financial officer. JUNE 16 In a conference call with investors, Mr. Fuld says, ''I am the one who ultimately signs off, and I'm comfortable with our valuations. We have always had a rigorous internal process.''
JULY: JULY 12 Mr. Fuld meets with John Mack, Morgan Stanley's chief executive, at his home. He also asks Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, if Lehman can become a bank holding company. JULY 13 Mr. Fuld meets with Greg Curl of Bank of America to talk about a possible sale of the firm to the bank. JULY 21 Mr. Fuld talks to Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive. JULY 28 Mr. Fuld meets with potential Korean investors in Hong Kong.
AUGUST: AUG. 5 Mr. Fuld meets with the Koreans in New York. AUG. 18 Lehman starts formal auction of Neuberger Berman, its money management division.
 SEPTEMBER: SEPT. 9 Mr. Fuld calls Mr. Lewis of Bank of America again to propose a sale, in part at the urging of Treasury. SEPT. 11 Robert E. Diamond, Barclays' president, expresses interest in buying Lehman. SEPT. 12 The Treasury and the Federal Reserve call Wall Street chief executives to an emergency meeting to discuss trying to save Lehman. SEPT. 15 Lehman files for bankruptcy at 1:45 A.M. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BONDS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); BOND FUNDS (72%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (66%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (63%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (63%); RY (SWX) (63%); RY (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (94%); WARREN BUFFETT (88%); KENNETH D LEWIS (88%); JOHN J MACK (87%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (72%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); STEVEN COHEN (56%); STEVEN A COHEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009



582 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: It's a Beautiful Idea: Considering America's Role in the World

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER ACETO and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Considering what America represents and its role in the world. 

 BODY:
Overview | What role should America play in the world? Why might foreigners look to Americans to provide solutions to global problems? In this lesson, students identify, compare and evaluate competing ideas about America's role in the world. They then role-play a discussion among three prominent leaders whose views differ about what America represents and how it should act on the global stage.
Materials | Student journals, paper and computers with Internet access.
Warm-Up | Write on the board, "America is not just a country but an idea, a great idea about _________________." Ask students to complete the statement with an appropriate word, group of words or phrase that they believe best describes the United States.
Then invite the class up to the board to participate in a "chalk talk," in which students write their responses to the original prompt and/or comments on and questions about their classmates' responses on the board - a conversation in writing. (If you want to save this "conversation," use poster paper and markers instead of the board.)
Divide the class into pairs or small groups. Distribute blank pieces of paper to each group and have them make a simple drawing of their idea on one side and explain why this idea is important on the other. When they are finished, post all of the drawings on the board and give the whole group time to look at them all. Then ask, "What do these results say about who we are as Americans, what we believe and what our role should be in the world?"
Related | In his Op-Ed page essay "Rebranding America," Bono, a New York Times guest columnist, uses the Nobel Peace Prize and the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals to consider the idealized and special role that America, and Americans, play in the global community:
The millennium goals, for those of you who don't know, are a persistent nag of a noble, global compact. They're a set of commitments we all made nine years ago whose goal is to halve extreme poverty by 2015. Barack Obama wasn't there in 2000, but he's there now. Indeed he's gone further - all the way, in fact. Halve it, he says, then end it.
Many have spoken about the need for a rebranding of America. Rebrand, restart, reboot. In my view these 36 words, alongside the administration's approach to fighting nuclear proliferation and climate change, improving relations in the Middle East and, by the way, creating jobs and providing health care at home, are rebranding in action.
These new steps - and those 36 words - remind the world that America is not just a country but an idea, a great idea about opportunity for all and responsibility to your fellow man.
Read the article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
What statement does Bono cite as the reason he believes he understands the "real" President Obama? What evidence does he provide in his essay to support his belief?
        
According to Bono, what are "the three greatest threats we face on this planet," and where are they prominently harming "peace and stability"? Why is this region important to "peace and stability"?
        
Why does Bono believe that the United States possesses the "keys" to these threats?
        
In your opinion, which of these three threats would you recommend to President Obama to solve first, and why?
        
In one sentence, how would you describe Bono's vision of the United States or what he believes the nation is? Briefly make note of the section(s) that support your understanding of his vision or belief. Do you agree or disagree with his vision? Why?
For a perspective contrary to Bono's about the merits of awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Mr. Obama, have students read Ross Douthat's Op-Ed page piece "Heckuva Job, Barack."
Activity | Explain to students that they will now delve into the context for Bono's Op-Ed essay in preparing to develop and perform scripts that illustrate their beliefs about the role of the United States in the world.
Start by displaying the image illustrating Bono's Op-Ed piece about "Rebranding America." Ask the class: What is the message of this image? Do you think that different people - from the United States and from around the world - would read this symbolic image differently? If so, what are the various ways it could be understood?
To provide some background on Bono's opinion piece, explain to students that he is not the first foreigner to express his ideas about what the United States is. In his 1923 book "What I Saw in America," the Englishman G.K. Chesterton wrote: "America is the only nation in the world founded on a creed. That creed is set forth with dogmatic and even theological lucidity in the Declaration of Independence."
The creed is this: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."
These two documents are part of a historical (and continuing) conversation - to which Bono, with his essay, is now contributing - about the political, economic and moral role of the United States in the world and the degree to which it should engage others. Ask students: Do you agree with Chesterton that this creed is the very foundation of our nation? Do you think our nation - its identity and ethos, its standing in the world, its history - would be any different had our founders not expressed this idea? Is Bono suggesting that the United States should take on a more vital and involved role in helping the world and employ Gen. James L. Jones' equation (stability equals security plus development") to meet that goal? If so, how do you think the United States can do that?
At this point in the lesson, students can use the one-pager handout to demonstrate a connection to Bono's essay or continue with the following tasks:
To provide students with two contemporary American viewpoints on the United States' role in the world, have them read and/or listen to audio of these "This I Believe" essays: Colin L. Powell's "The America I Believe In" and Newt Gingrich's "The Willingness to Work for Solutions."
After they read the essays, have students draw a quick sketch of an idea that they believe represents the writers' perspectives. Note that there are many other essays available, sorted by themes, at the "This I Believe" Web site (http://thisibelieve.org/themes/) if students would like to add more to the mix.)
Lastly, form groups of three students and have each choose a role: Bono, Mr. Powell or Mr. Gingrich. In their roles, they should discuss the question, "What role does, or should, America play in the world?", using quotes from their assigned leader as they talk and share views. If time permits, invite groups to "perform" their discussions for the class, fishbowl-style, with the group sitting together and the rest of the class sitting in a circle around them, observing.
Going Further | Individually, students write their own essays, inspired by Bono's, Mr. Powell's and/or Mr. Gingrich's, about the United States' role in the world.
Alternatively or additionally, to provide a historical context for Bono's call for active American involvement around the world, have students analyze some of the debate about the Marshall Plan after World War II.
The five questions found in "The Basic Questions in the Great Debate" by Alger Hiss, which appeared in The Times in 1947, provide a framework for thinking about aid and development today. Direct students to take a general survey of the article and then update the words "Europe," "Europeans" and "Socialist" with appropriate substitutions from current events and Bono's essay.
Lead a discussion with students about the following questions: Why might foreigners look to Americans to provide solutions to problems they are experiencing? What essential themes are apparent here in the United States and in world history over the past 60 years? What course of action should the United States follow?
Standards | From , for grades 6-12:
Civics
9 - Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy.
11 - Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society.
23 - Understands the impact of significant political and nonpolitical developments on the United States and other nations.
World History
45 - Understands major global trends since World War II.
Language Arts
1 - Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
5 - Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.

        
Is America a Great Country?
        
Learning About U.S. Immigration With The New York Times
        
Are You Optimistic About the Future of Your Country?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); HISTORY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); WRITERS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%) United States; American Government; American History; Civics; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Europe; Expository Writing; Global Conflicts; Global History; Globalization; History of North America; Human Rights; Human Systems; International Relations; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Power and Authority; Social Studies; United States Intervention in Foreign Affairs; Witnessing History; World Leaders

PERSON: BONO (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



583 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Giant Steps for Womankind, but Still Miles to Go

BYLINE: By FRANCINE PROSE. 
Francine Prose's most recent book is ''Anne Frank: The Book, the Life, the Afterlife'' (Harper).

 BODY:
WHEN EVERYTHING CHANGED
 The Amazing Journey of American Women From 1960 to the Present
 By Gail Collins
 Illustrated. 471 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $27.99
 One conclusion that could be drawn from the popular TV series ''Mad Men'' is that the early 1960s were a great time to be an American male. How the show's strivers and schemers relish their rowdy bonhomie, as well as the gladiatorial power games conducted in the near-total absence of female contenders. And what a solace it is for these harried executives to return home to wives who exist solely to cook their dinners, raise their children and look stunning at parties. Meanwhile, viewers can enjoy the joke of understanding, as the characters do not, that this idyll of testosterone-fueled entitlement is about to end forever. 
 Gail Collins's ''When Everything Changed'' points out what the women on ''Mad Men'' know: that period in our history was less enjoyable for the ladies. Ms. Collins, who edited the editorial page of The New York Times (the first woman to have held that position) from 2001 to 2007 and who now writes an Op-Ed column for the paper, begins her informative survey with a panoramic look at how women lived in 1960 -- recent history, we might think, until we note how many practices then in fashion seem, by current standards, positively medieval. 
 Female passengers were banned from United Airlines' ''executive flights'' from New York to Chicago, and in some states women were barred from jury duty lest time spent in the courtroom ''encourage lax performance of their domestic duties.'' ''Hell, yes, we have a quota,'' admitted a medical school dean. ''We do keep women out, when we can.'' 
 The practice of paying women less for doing the same jobs as men was not only accepted but routine; a wife's credit card was issued in her husband's name; and women had trouble securing bank loans to buy a house or even a car. The National Press Club was off limits to women until 1971. No one much questioned these regulations and customs -- the dress codes requiring women to wear skirts instead of pants, the firing of airline stewardesses who gained too much weight -- nor was there vocal opposition to the sort of prohibitions that we decry when they appear in dispatches from some benighted emirate or sheikdom.
 The early pages of Ms. Collins's book are peppered with accounts of incidents so outrageous they almost seem like jokes. A draft of a Congressional bill to insure equal pay for women was discovered to have been filed ''under B -- for 'broads.' '' At a pregraduation party at Barnard, one woman remembers, students who were engaged to be married were handed corsages, while their classmates without engagement rings were presented with lemons. 
 All this is perversely entertaining, but Ms. Collins underlines the serious consequences of such risible moments by including the stories of individual women -- from overworked housewives to marginalized politicians -- whose lives were cramped and deformed by the culture's low opinion of their capabilities. These anecdotal reports of prejudice and insult are bolstered by the evidence of surveys and statistics. ''In 1960,'' writes Ms. Collins, ''women accounted for 6 percent of American doctors, 3 percent of lawyers, and less than 1 percent of engineers.'' 
 Gradually, then more rapidly, things began to improve, a shift Ms. Collins ascribes to the ''perfect storm'' created by the ''benevolent'' confluence of scientific, economic and historical developments: the influence of the civil rights movement, the popularization of the birth control pill and the ways in which women were motivated to find jobs outside the home by ''the soaring expectations of the postwar boom, followed by the decline in men's paychecks in the 1970s.'' She charts the early stages of the women's movement -- the protests and demonstrations, the lawsuits and legal cases, the office takeovers and consciousness-raising groups. 
 Providing capsule histories of liberals and conservatives, of ordinary women and public figures, from Betty Friedan to Billie Jean King, from Bella Abzug to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, from Gloria Steinem to the antigay activist Anita Bryant, Ms. Collins reminds us of how many aspects of our lives were affected by the battles these women fought. And even readers who lived through this era may be surprised to discover how much they never knew, or have forgotten -- details of the controversies surrounding the Equal Rights Amendment, of the Roe v. Wade and the Mary Beth Whitehead (the surrogate mom) cases, and of President Richard M. Nixon's veto of a bill that would have provided working mothers with affordable child care.
 Among the impressive features of Ms. Collins's book is her genial, fair-minded sympathy, her refusal to smirk at the excesses of the most radical '70s feminists or at the stances of women, among them Phyllis Schlafly, who counseled their sisters to stay home where they belonged. This evenhandedness seems all the more admirable later in the book, when she considers the significance of Hillary Rodham Clinton's and Sarah Palin's roles in the 2008 presidential election. And her sensible acknowledgment of the problems that remain -- the low percentage of women serving as chief executives or as partners in law firms, recent discrimination suits against Wal-Mart and Goodyear -- suggests that a more accurate title for her book might have been ''When Some Things Changed.'' 
 But as Ms. Collins reminds us, much has changed for the better. That should console women wondering why they are still earning less than the guy in the next cubicle, or why they have been passed over for yet another promotion. At least their employers are no longer entitled by law to ask them how much they weigh.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review last Wednesday, about ''When Everything Changed: The Amazing Journey of American Women From 1960 to the Present,'' by Gail Collins, referred imprecisely to the exclusion of women from the National Press Club in Washington. While they were not allowed to become members until 1971, female reporters were allowed to enter the club's quarters starting in 1955. It was not ''off limits'' to women until 1971.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); AIRLINES (86%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); CHILDREN (75%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (67%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); JURY DUTY (63%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (60%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (75%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: When Everything Changed (Book)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



584 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: The New Untouchables

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Last summer I attended a talk by Michelle Rhee, the dynamic chancellor of public schools in Washington. Just before the session began, a man came up, introduced himself as Todd Martin and whispered to me that what Rhee was about to speak about -- our struggling public schools -- was actually a critical, but unspoken, reason for the Great Recession. 
 There's something to that. While the subprime mortgage mess involved a huge ethical breakdown on Wall Street, it coincided with an education breakdown on Main Street -- precisely when technology and open borders were enabling so many more people to compete with Americans for middle-class jobs. 
 In our subprime era, we thought we could have the American dream -- a house and yard -- with nothing down. This version of the American dream was delivered not by improving education, productivity and savings, but by Wall Street alchemy and borrowed money from Asia. 
 A year ago, it all exploded. Now that we are picking up the pieces, we need to understand that it is not only our financial system that needs a reboot and an upgrade, but also our public school system. Otherwise, the jobless recovery won't be just a passing phase, but our future.
 ''Our education failure is the largest contributing factor to the decline of the American worker's global competitiveness, particularly at the middle and bottom ranges,'' argued Martin, a former global executive with PepsiCo and Kraft Europe and now an international investor. ''This loss of competitiveness has weakened the American worker's production of wealth, precisely when technology brought global competition much closer to home. So over a decade, American workers have maintained their standard of living by borrowing and overconsuming vis-a-vis their real income. When the Great Recession wiped out all the credit and asset bubbles that made that overconsumption possible, it left too many American workers not only deeper in debt than ever, but out of a job and lacking the skills to compete globally.''
 This problem will be reversed only when the decline in worker competitiveness reverses -- when we create enough new jobs and educated workers that are worth, say, $40-an-hour compared with the global alternatives. If we don't, there's no telling how ''jobless'' this recovery will be.
 A Washington lawyer friend recently told me about layoffs at his firm. I asked him who was getting axed. He said it was interesting: lawyers who were used to just showing up and having work handed to them were the first to go because with the bursting of the credit bubble, that flow of work just isn't there. But those who have the ability to imagine new services, new opportunities and new ways to recruit work were being retained. They are the new untouchables.
 That is the key to understanding our full education challenge today. Those who are waiting for this recession to end so someone can again hand them work could have a long wait. Those with the imagination to make themselves untouchables -- to invent smarter ways to do old jobs, energy-saving ways to provide new services, new ways to attract old customers or new ways to combine existing technologies -- will thrive. Therefore, we not only need a higher percentage of our kids graduating from high school and college -- more education -- but we need more of them with the right education.
 As the Harvard University labor expert Lawrence Katz explains it: ''If you think about the labor market today, the top half of the college market, those with the high-end analytical and problem-solving skills who can compete on the world market or game the financial system or deal with new government regulations, have done great. But the bottom half of the top, those engineers and programmers working on more routine tasks and not actively engaged in developing new ideas or recombining existing technologies or thinking about what new customers want, have done poorly. They've been much more exposed to global competitors that make them easily substitutable.''
 Those at the high end of the bottom half -- high school grads in construction or manufacturing -- have been clobbered by global competition and immigration, added Katz. ''But those who have some interpersonal skills -- the salesperson who can deal with customers face to face or the home contractor who can help you redesign your kitchen without going to an architect -- have done well.'' 
 Just being an average accountant, lawyer, contractor or assembly-line worker is not the ticket it used to be. As Daniel Pink, the author of ''A Whole New Mind,'' puts it: In a world in which more and more average work can be done by a computer, robot or talented foreigner faster, cheaper ''and just as well,'' vanilla doesn't cut it anymore. It's all about what chocolate sauce, whipped cream and cherry you can put on top. So our schools have a doubly hard task now -- not just improving reading, writing and arithmetic but entrepreneurship, innovation and creativity.
 Bottom line: We're not going back to the good old days without fixing our schools as well as our banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%)

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (54%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



585 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Car Buyers Kiss Loyalty Goodbye

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
To sell a car in the 1980s, dealers had to do little more than open their doors, and loyal buyers would show up to trade in their Chevrolet for a new Chevrolet, or their Toyota for another Toyota. 
 Nearly four in five Americans were repeat buyers back then, staunchly faithful to brands that they knew, trusted and were part of their self-image. The allegiance often continued through generations of families, like party affiliations in politics.
 Now, partly as a result of increasingly fickle consumer tastes and the industry turmoil in Detroit, that hard-won loyalty is largely gone. 
 So far this year, only about 20 percent of car shoppers stayed with the same brand when they purchased a new vehicle, according to a study by the Oregon-based firm CNW Marketing Research.
 As a result, the industry is seeing the kind of churn it hasn't witnessed since Japanese manufacturers began making inroads in the American market more than 30 years ago.
 ''The days when people bought a Toyota car or a General Motors product for 25 years are over,'' said Art Spinella, CNW's president. ''There really isn't any brand loyalty any more.'' 
 Chris Allen is a case in point. Mr. Allen, 24, grew up in a suburb north of Detroit. His father works for an auto supplier, and his family's garage was always full of G.M. products.
 ''We had Saturns, Oldsmobiles, Buicks and a string of Chevys,'' said Mr. Allen. ''My first two vehicles were hand-me-downs -- a GMC Sonoma and a Pontiac Grand Am.''
 After graduating from Michigan State University, Mr. Allen moved to Los Angeles, where he works for a market research firm. And when he bought his first car, he chose a Volkswagen GTI.
 ''If G.M. produced a vehicle I wanted, it would have been at the top of my list,'' he said. ''But they don't.''
 Just five years ago, Chevrolet and Ford sat comfortably atop the United States market, each with more than a 16 percent share. Chrysler had three brands -- Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep -- in the top 10.
 Today, the Toyota brand leads the pack with slightly more than 14 percent, followed by Ford, Chevrolet, and the Honda and Nissan brands. The Chrysler brand and G.M.'s soon-to-be-discontinued Pontiac brand have fallen out of the Top 10 -- replaced by two South Korean brands, Hyundai and Kia.
 Each percentage-point movement represents tens of thousands of sales, and underscores how car buyers, armed with reams of data from the Internet, are comparison shopping as never before. And because most cars have become more reliable, choice becomes more a matter of taste. 
 ''Brand loyalty has shrunk because of widespread improvements in the products,'' said James Farley, Ford Motor Company's head of marketing. ''The 'trust factor' is more or less the same for most cars.''
 This shift has enormous implications for the way automakers advertise. 
 In the glory days of Detroit's Big Three, the companies and their advertising agencies invested heavily to market slogans that covered a wide range of products. Ad campaigns like Chevrolet's ''Heartbeat of America'' and ''Have You Driven a Ford Lately?'' were used to market everything from small cars to big pickup trucks. Even Toyota followed suit with broad messages -- ''I Love What You Do for Me'' -- that covered everything it sold.
 Now, one size no longer fits all. Toyota, for example, found that the rock-solid quality that made its Camry sedan the top-selling car in America did not lure many buyers to its full-size Tundra pickup.
 ''This is not the age anymore of meaningless slogans,'' said Jack Trout, president of a consulting firm, Trout & Partners, in Old Greenwich, Conn. ''What you're after is differentiation of your products.''
 Hyundai has carved out a 4 percent share of the American. market because its vehicles are less expensive than Toyota's but are perceived as just as reliable, said Mr. Spinella of CNW Marketing Research. The company differentiated itself further this year when it offered to take back cars if the owners lost their jobs and could not afford to make payments.
 ''Today, people are very focused on value,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, president of the car-research Web site Edmunds.com in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Hyundai took a unique position to address that.''
 Ford tried to excite consumers with ads a few years ago that extolled its heritage. But the current marketing campaign for its fuel-efficient Fusion sedan does not even mention the Ford name until the end of the ad.
 The lesson Ford learned, Mr. Farley said, is that today's car buyer has little use for nostalgia.
 ''I can't tell you how many car clubs I have been to where they own old Mustangs and vintage T-Birds, but they drive Camrys,'' he said.
 David Leonhardt, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is on assignment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION) (B1)
When Chris Allen, 24, was growing up near Detroit, his family always had G.M. cars. For his first car, he bought a VW GTI. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) CHART: SHIFTING ALLEGIANCE: Percentage of new-car buyers who bought the same brand their household had historically owned (Source: CNW Research) (pg.B1)
 SHIFTING CAR PREFERENCES: Since 2004, Toyota has surpassed Ford and Chevrolet as the top-selling car brand in the U.S. (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAND EQUITY (89%); BRANDING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); CUSTOMER RETENTION STRATEGY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); RANKINGS (69%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



586 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Electric Car Plant May Open in Syracuse

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
New York State appears to be close to securing one of the nation's first assembly plants for electric cars.
 Reva, an electric car company based in Bangalore, India, plans to work with Bannon Automotive, a new electric car company in Freeport, N.Y., to assemble a three-door plug-in hatchback, the NXR, at a still-to-be-determined site near Syracuse. 
 The plans were first reported by The Post-Standard, a Syracuse newspaper. Many details remained unclear on Tuesday; an official announcement is expected late in the week.
 The NXR was introduced at the Frankfurt auto show in September, one of a new class of small electric cars from scrappy Indian and Chinese companies hoping to beat the big car companies to market. Other Reva electric models are already on sale in Europe and Asia. 
 Jeffrey Leonard, a board member of Reva, said that from the beginning the board had understood that ''if you're going to really sell and distribute this car in a big way in the U.S., you should have a production facility here,'' for reasons both logistical and political. Speaking on condition of anonymity, officials involved in the discussions said the plant would receive $11.6 million in funding and incentives from New York State, with the companies putting in $26.5 million. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said the project's backers were also seeking $52 million in loans and loan guarantees from the federal government. He acknowledged that he had been involved in discussions about the plant for several months.
 Some of the parts needed for the cars could be made by contract manufacturers, Mr. Leonard said, though he stressed that he was not familiar with the particulars of the New York deal. Final assembly would be carried out by as many as 250 workers in the Syracuse-area factory under a recently negotiated agreement between Bannon and Reva, officials said.
 ''We have a very good labor force,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''It's experienced in manufacturing.''
 Efforts to contact Bannon Automotive were unsuccessful. The Metropolitan Development Association of Syracuse and Central New York declined to comment.
 Morgan Hook, a spokesman for Gov. David Paterson, said that the deal was ''one in a long line of major announcements that the governor has helped make a reality in New York, in driving New York toward a clean energy economy.''
 Discussions with Reva and Bannon Automotive began nearly a year ago, according to David Valesky, a state senator from the Syracuse area. 
 ''This is a major victory for upstate New York and for our efforts to grow and attract the green jobs of the new economy,'' Mr. Valesky said in an e-mailed statement.
 Only a couple of electric car plants exist in the United States, but many are on the drawing board as companies bet that some drivers are ready to make the switch. Fisker Automotive, an American electric car start-up that is making cars in Finland, plans to build its next-generation model in the United States, but it has not said where.
 A company called Tesla also expects to announce a site for an assembly plant in Southern California for its forthcoming Model S. It also plans a powertrain plant in Palo Alto, Calif. Tesla already does final assembly for its Roadster at a plant in Menlo Park, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); DISCRETE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (71%); LABOR FORCE (67%); NEW ECONOMY (60%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRIC CAR CO INC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); DAVID PATERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



587 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Drilling in Alaska

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Clearer Look at Drilling'' (editorial, Oct. 14): 
 You ignore the fact that oil and gas will play a major part in meeting America's energy demands for several decades as we transition to a more sustainable energy future. 
 Rather than lock away domestic energy sources, policy makers should reduce the continuing hypocrisy of relying on other countries' resources and promote providing for our own growing energy needs. 
 This would also save United States jobs and help with our balance of trade.
 Shell is a leader in environmentally superior operations and a global advocate for carbon dioxide reduction through cap-and-trade controls. We have prepared one of the most environmentally sensitive and responsible exploration plans ever for offshore Alaska. And yet, bringing new energy sources to market is held up by unnecessary litigation and unreasonable federal permitting delays.
 Meeting our growing energy demands while protecting our environment requires responsible access to United States lands and resources for oil, gas and renewable energy. Our economy's health and our nation's security demand, and deserve, nothing less.
 Marvin Odum President Shell Oil Company Houston, Oct. 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (52%); LITIGATION (52%)

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



588 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Sinking in Debt

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
How much debt can an industrialized country carry before the nation's economy and its currency bow, then break?
 The question looms large in the United States, as a surging budget deficit pushes government debt to nearly 98 percent of the gross domestic product. But it looms even larger in Japan. 
 Here, years of stimulus spending on expensive dams and roads have inflated the country's gross public debt to twice the size of its $5 trillion economy -- by far the highest debt-to-G.D.P. ratio in recent memory. 
 Just paying the interest on its debt consumed a fifth of Japan's budget for 2008, compared with debt payments that compose about a tenth of the United States budget. 
 Yet, the finance minister, Hirohisa Fujii, suggested Tuesday that the government would sell 50 trillion yen, about $550 billion, in new bonds -- or more. 
 ''There's no mistaking the budget deficit stems from the past year's global recession. Now is the time to be bold and issue more deficit bonds,'' Mr. Fujii told reporters at the National Press Club in Tokyo. ''Those who may call this pork-barrel spending -- that's a total lie.''
 For jittery investors, Japan's rising sea of debt is the stuff of nightmares: the possibility of an eventual sovereign debt crisis, where the country would be unable to pay some holders of its bonds, or a destabilizing collapse in the value of the yen.
 In the immediate term, Mr. Fujii's remarks prompted concerns of a supply glut in bond markets, sending prices on 10-year Japanese government bonds down 0.087 yen, to 99.56 yen, and yields to their highest point in six weeks.
 The Obama administration insists that it understands the risks posed by deficits and ever-increasing debt. Its critics are doubtful. But as Washington runs up a trillion-dollar deficit this year, with trillions in debt for years to come, it need look no farther than Tokyo to see how overspending can ravage an economy.
 Tokyo's new government, which won a landslide victory on an ambitious (and expensive) social agenda, is set to issue a record amount of debt, borrowing more in government bonds than it will receive in tax receipts for the first time since the years after World War II. 
 ''Public sector finances are spinning out of control -- fast,'' said Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in a recent note to clients. ''We believe a fiscal crisis is imminent.'' 
 One of the lessons of Japan's experience is that a government saddled with debt can quickly run out of room to maneuver. 
 ''Japan will keep on selling more bonds this year and next, but that won't work in three to five years,'' said Akito Fukunaga, a Tokyo-based fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse. ''If you ask me what Japan can resort to after that, my answer would be 'not very much.' '' 
 How Japan got into such a deep hole, and kept digging, is a tale of reckless spending. 
 The country poured hundreds of billions of dollars into civil engineering projects in the postwar era, marbling Japan with highways, dams and ports.
 The spending initially fueled Japan's rapid postwar growth and kept the Liberal Democratic Party in power for most of the last half-century. But after a spectacular asset and stock market boom collapsed in 1990, the country fell into a long economic malaise.
 The Democratic Party, which swept to victory in August, promises to rein in public works spending. But the party's generous welfare agenda -- like cash support to families with children and free high schools -- could ultimately enlarge budget deficits.
 ''It's dangerous for the Democrats to push on with all of their policies when tax revenues are so low,'' said Chotaro Morita, head of fixed-income strategy at Barclays Capital Japan. ''From a global perspective, Japan's debt ratio is way off the charts,'' he said.
 Still, officials insist that Japan is better off than the United States by some measures.
 One hugely important difference is that Japan is rich in personal savings and assets, and owes less than 10 percent of its debt to foreigners. By comparison, about 46 percent of America's debt is held overseas by countries such as China and Japan.
 Moreover, half of Japan's government bonds are held by the public sector, while government regulations encourage long-term investors like banks, pension funds and insurance companies to buy up the rest.
 All of this makes a sudden sell-off of government bonds unlikely, officials argue.
 ''The government is just borrowing from one pocket and putting it in the other,'' said Toyoo Gyohten, a former top finance ministry official and a special currency adviser to Mr. Fujii. ''Although the numbers appear very fearsome, we have some leeway.''
 Many analysts agree that during a recession, Japan, like the United States, should worry less about trying to cut debt. But they say Tokyo should at least concentrate on making sure that spending does not get out of hand.
 ''The government needs to stabilize the debt, first and foremost. Only then can it start setting other targets,'' said Randall Jones, chief economist for Japan and Korea at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 A credible plan to pare down spending is important ''to maintain public confidence in Japan's fiscal sustainability,'' said the O.E.C.D.'s economic survey of Japan for 2009.
 In the long run, even Japan's sizable assets could fall and eventually turn negative. Japan's rapidly aging population means retirees are starting to dip into their nest eggs -- just as government spending increases to cover their rising medical bills and pension payments.
 The fall in public and private savings could eventually reverse Japan's current account surplus, possibly driving up interest rates as the public and private sectors compete for funds. Higher interest rates would increase the cost of servicing the debt, and raise Japan's risk of default.
 In a worst case, Japan's currency could suffer as more investors switch away from Japan to other assets. And if Japan were to print more money and set off inflation to reduce its debt burden, the supply of yen would shoot up, lowering the currency's value further.
 In recent months, the yen's surge on major markets as the dollar weakened has sent a false sense of security. The currency recently touched a seven-month high of about 89 yen to the dollar before easing slightly, as near-zero interest rates in the United States prompted investors to take their money elsewhere. Many strategists expect the yen to strengthen further, at least in the short term.
 ''In 10 or 20 years, Japan's current-account surplus will fall into deficit, and that will lead to a weaker yen,'' said Mr. Morita at Barclays Capital. ''But if investors become pessimistic about Japan before that, the yen will weaken earlier than that.''
 For all the recent talk of a shift away from the dollar as the reserve currency of choice, it is the yen that is becoming increasingly irrelevant, analysts say. The yen made up 3.08 percent of foreign currency reserves in mid-2009, down from 3.29 percent the same time last year and down from 6.4 percent in 1999. In mid-2009, the dollar still accounted for almost 63 percent of global foreign reserves. 
 ''The yen is set to enter a long decline'' in both stature and value as investors lose confidence in Japan, said Hideo Kumano, chief economist at the Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
 Considering the state of Japan's finances and economy, Mr. Kumano said, the yen's recent strength against the dollar ''isn't an affirmation of Japan -- it's the yen's last hurrah.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (pg.B1)
 A construction site near the Yamba dam project in Naganohara, Japan. Stimulus spending on dams and roads have helped inflate Japan's gross public debt to twice the $5 trillion economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) CHART: RISING DEBT: The Japanese government's debt levels are higher than other industrialized countries. (Source: Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); BOND ISSUES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



589 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Lockheed's Profit Rises, but Its Outlook Slips

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Lockheed Martin Corporation said Tuesday that its third-quarter earnings rose, helped by increased sales of military aircraft like the C-130J transport plane and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, in addition to the delivery of one commercial satellite. 
 The company warned, however, that the trend might not last, and it issued a weak 2010 earnings forecast, as Wall Street has been predicting in recent weeks. Lockheed expects that sales of fighter jets will dwindle and pension costs will rise next year.
 Lockheed and its suppliers are feeling the pinch of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates's decision this year to cap production of the F-22, said Bruce Tanner, Lockheed's chief financial officer. Each F-22, a cold-war fighter jet, costs $140 million, and the decision to limit production to 187 jets is part of the Pentagon's plan to shift military spending to programs more suitable to modern warfare.
 The Pentagon this year has also terminated Lockheed's contract to build new helicopters to carry the president, as well as a contract to build a communications satellite.
 Lockheed said earnings rose nearly 8 percent from the previous quarter, to $797 million, or $2.07 a share, for the period ending Sept. 27. That compares with $782 million, or $1.92 a share, last year. Revenue grew nearly 5 percent to $11.06 billion.
 Stock in Lockheed, which is based in Bethesda, Md., fell $5, or 6.5 percent, to $71.99 a share.
 The United Technologies Corporation continued to be squeezed by the downturn in aerospace and real estate markets as nearly all its businesses posted declines in the third quarter.
 The company, which owns Pratt & Whitney, Otis elevator, Sikorsky Aircraft and other businesses, said it earned $1.06 billion, or $1.14 a share, down 17 percent from $1.27 billion, or $1.33 a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 11 percent, to $13.38 billion, from $15.09 billion a year ago.
 The chief financial officer, Greg Hayes, told investors and analysts in a conference call that the company was confident earnings would rise in 2010.
 The president and chief executive, Louis R. Chenevert, said a strong military backlog and significant repair and servicing businesses were setting up the company for earnings growth in 2010. In addition, he said United Technologies had begun to see improvement in some Asian economies, notably China's.
 With the exception of Sikorsky Aircraft, which has benefited from increased military sales for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, operating profit fell at each of United Technologies' businesses. Sikorsky's operating profit rose 18 percent from a year ago.
 Stock in United Technologies, which is based in Hartford, Conn., fell 4 cents, to $65.40 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); HELICOPTERS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (70%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (95%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (84%); PRATT & WHITNEY (53%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (95%); UTX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (54%); LOUIS CHENEVERT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%) MARYLAND, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



590 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Slowly Lures Biotech Companies

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
After more than six years of courting the biotech industry, Westchester County is getting some positive results.
 One rapidly growing pharmaceutical company with 750 employees will expand within a new $112 million laboratory complex recently built at the 117-acre Landmark at Eastview in Tarrytown. Another is moving from Long Island into a 43-acre biotech park in Ardsley, where it will establish its headquarters and employ 350 people.
 Both companies scouted other locations and weighed incentive packages from state and local agencies before deciding on the suburbs north of Manhattan. 
 In Tarrytown, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, which develops and produces medicine for cancer and other intractable diseases, already leases 160,000 square feet at the campus, which was built for Union Carbide in the early 1960s. Now it is adding another 229,000 square feet of lab and office space.
 Dr. Leonard S. Schleifer, who started Regeneron 20 years ago with four employees, said the company had agreed to stay in Westchester instead of moving after the state and county officials offered sales tax incentives. 
 In Ardsley, OSI Pharmaceuticals has spent $27 million to buy the Ardsley Park Science and Technology Center from Purdue Pharma. OSI will move its operations early next summer from 120,000 square feet at two locations on Long Island -- the State University of New York at Farmingdale and Melville -- to 400,000 square feet in Westchester.
 The company, which develops cancer-fighting drugs, plans to spend more than $80 million to renovate the six-building campus, created in 1956 for Ciba (which later became Ciba-Geigy) but now mostly empty. 
 Westchester won out over sites in Philadelphia, Long Island and North Carolina, said Pierre Legault, OSI's chief financial officer and executive vice president. ''We looked throughout the United States for the right location,'' Mr. Legault said. The company also has facilities in Cedar Knolls, N.J., and Boulder, Colo.
 For the county, establishing itself as a major contender in the New York-New Jersey biotech cluster has been a struggle. The industry tends to be concentrated in epicenters -- around New York, Boston, Philadelphia and the Baltimore-Washington region on the East Coast and San Diego, San Francisco and Seattle on the West Coast -- where scientific talent, academia and financing coexist.
 Because of its proximity to Manhattan, Westchester offers that. But as Salvatore J. Carrera, the county director of real estate and economic development, said, ''Even though we've been pushing for this for quite a while, it just didn't happen right away.''
 In 2002, the county announced a plan to turn a vacant 60-acre site it owns in Valhalla into a privately financed biotechnology and medical research park with 200,000 square feet of research and development space. Requests for proposals were sent out and a developer was chosen, but then negotiations broke down over costs, Mr. Carrera said.
 In another effort to develop more biotech space at that time, the New York-Presbyterian Hospital, Westchester division, planned a $100 million center on its campus for advanced proton therapy to treat cancer, but that project never moved ahead, even though it won local zoning approval. Among other things, there was stiff opposition from city residents who wanted the land used for a park.
 Now, officials say, the biotech industry continues to grow while most of the economy falters. For Westchester, which has an office vacancy rate of more than 17 percent and an unemployment rate close to 10 percent, the desire to attract life sciences jobs is acute, Mr. Carrera said. 
 To persuade Regeneron not to leave and take its jobs with it, Westchester offered the San Diego-based BioMed Realty Trust, which owns the Landmark at Eastview, $3 million in sales tax incentives to build the new complex, said Theresa Waivada, the executive director of the county's industrial development agency.
 Empire State Development, New York's industrial development agency, provided the real estate investment trust a $4 million construction grant in return for the company's commitment to retain its jobs in the state.
 Besides the Tarrytown site, Regeneron has a manufacturing plant in Rensselaer, near Albany, where it employs 250 people.
 OSI is receiving $3 million in sales tax exemptions from Westchester and $1.8 million a year from the state to cover the cost of its current lease in Farmingdale, which expires in 2022, or until that property is rented to another tenant. The company had planned to expand its space on the campus of Farmingdale State University, but encountered obstacles to building on state land.
 In addition to the economic incentives, officials from both companies said, they decided on Westchester in part because of its location in an area with a highly educated work force and good transportation access. 
 ''In the end it was the county's strategic position near the Tappan Zee and George Washington Bridges and the proximity of other life sciences efforts,'' Mr. Legault explained of OSI's decision to consolidate its five sites in Westchester. Besides Regeneron, other biotech firms in Westchester include Profectus Biosciences and Progenics Pharmaceuticals. 
 For Dr. Schleifer of Regeneron, another attraction was having room to create what he called ''state-of-the-art lab space.''
 ''Science today is being done in collaborative groups, and research facilities need to account for that,'' he explained. ''On one project, we might need a molecular biologist who knows how to clone a gene, a biochemist to study the gene, a physiologist to figure out how that gene fits into the entire organism and a biochemical engineer who can help get that drug candidate manufactured. So we need enough room to have them all under one roof, with opportunities to interact.''
 While the two new developments in Westchester come as welcome news, biotech firms are not immune to the vicissitudes of the economy, said R. Kent Griffin Jr., the president and chief financial officer of BioMed Realty. 
 ''Things aren't as robust as they were 12 months ago,'' said Mr. Griffin, whose company owns about 10.5 million square feet of lab and office space on both coasts. The Landmark at Eastview is its largest holding in New York. 
 ''Still, biotech isn't related to consumer spending and doesn't really correlate to the larger picture,'' he added. ''In that sense, we don't march to same beat as the rest of the economy. That's the good news.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Regeneron Pharmaceuticals was persuaded to stay in Tarrytown by sales tax incentives from the state and Westchester County. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DE CHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); CANCER (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COUNTIES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); TAX LAW (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (58%); OSI PHARMACEUTICALS INC (55%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (58%); NOVN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



591 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1933 words

HEADLINE: Matches Welcome Where Smokers Aren't

BYLINE: By KATRINA HERON

 BODY:
''I LOVE matches.'' That's how Dona Savitsky, a former smoker, accounted for the dainty tray of insignia matchboxes at the entrance to Flora, the restaurant she and a partner opened in Oakland, Calif., two years ago. 
 The objects of her specific adoration are blue-and-silver boxes, shaped like a lipstick (also known in the trade as an ascot), each of which contains 22 blue-tipped wooden strikes. Bearing Flora's Art Deco logo, the matchboxes are the finishing touch on an ambience calculated to dislocate the present tense.
 But while the mood at Flora is undoubtedly retro, there are -- needless to say -- no ashtrays in sight and no swathed-in-smoke Don Draper lounging at the bar with a Corpse Reviver No. 2, one of the restaurant's cocktails. The menu proclaims a sustainable-agriculture, locavore ethos, and Oakland also ranks first among California cities in antismoking enforcement, according to the American Lung Association. 
 One's first thought is, What are matchboxes doing here? This is followed swiftly by the urge to pocket one, or, to be perfectly honest, several. 
 ''Nobody takes just one,'' Ms. Savitsky offered by way of reassurance. ''We've had to start rationing them, putting out five at a time, because it gets expensive.'' The boxes, imported from India, cost around 13 cents apiece, and the restaurant goes through about 500 a month. 
 Ms. Savitsky's experience is echoed by a number of restaurateurs across the country, who concur that matches may be experiencing a fragile renaissance as the dining world's freebie of choice and its most cost-effective and appealing advertising vehicle. 
 If smoking was their sole raison d'etre, restaurant matches should by all rights have disappeared by now. After being overtaken by the disposable lighter, they have run into smoking bans of varying severity. (Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia now have laws prohibiting smoking in restaurants, according to the American Lung Association, and local jurisdictions impose their own smoke-free rules.)
 Yet matches appear to be struggling back from the brink to reassert their pre-eminence among the rabble of coasters, business cards, cocktail napkins and swizzle sticks charged with hawking a restaurant's good name. In an era of instant information access and viral publicity, logo-bearing matches may have the edge as ambassadors that convey distinction in their very physicality. 
 ''When a state or municipality imposes a ban, we see a hesitation in reordering and a fall-off in new business,'' said Mark Nackman, the owner and president of AdMatch, an importer based in New York City. ''Then the volumes start to creep back up, so that within a year or so we see some resurgence in statewide sales. Matches have universal appeal, and that's the mystery -- that one little package could resonate with familiarity, maybe beauty, and a feeling of value.'' 
 Jonathan Bradley, president of Bradley Industries, a manufacturer of promotional books and boxes based in Frankfort, Ill., said: ''''When matches are gone, people miss them and ask for them to be brought back. They're collectibles. You probably don't have a bowl of coasters sitting around the house.'' 
 The only two major United States players remaining in the promotional match business, AdMatch and Bradley are both family-owned businesses, guardedly sharing what's left of an inheritance in customized ''portable ignition devices.'' 
 Both companies declined to cite figures, but by some estimates, annual national sales of all kinds of matches, both promotional and other sorts, have fallen to around $30 million today from about $200 million in the 1970s. Many restaurants have dropped them for good, but Mr. Nackman said there seems to be a steady supply of new customers taking up the slack. 
 Indeed, the growth in restaurant startups and Americans' increased penchant for dining out have helped stave off extinction. ''Particularly during this challenging economic time, matches are an effective way for restaurants to get their name in front of people without spending a lot of money,'' said Maureen Ryan, a spokeswoman for the National Restaurant Association. 
 Mr. Nackman said AdMatch's average restaurant customer goes through about 20,000 boxes or books each year, but usage is not necessarily linked to the size of the venue. Cafe Lalo on Manhattan's Upper West Side, with just 80 seats, has ordered 100,000 matchboxes every six or nine months for the last 20 years, he said. 
 At Pera, a three-year-old Turkish-infused Mediterranean restaurant on Madison Avenue, the proprietor, Burak Karacam, offers patrons a troika of takeaways: insignia boxes of toothpicks, matches, and mints. ''People don't seem concerned about dental hygiene,'' he said somewhat wistfully. ''But matches and mints are very popular.'' 
 To be sure, a few people grab a box of matches on their way out the door for a quick smoke, Mr. Karacam said, but the majority are taken as mementos and even serve as a diplomatic corps for the restaurant. 
 ''An international visitor picks up maybe four or five matchboxes when they leave,'' he explained. ''Some months later, a different person walks into the restaurant, holding a box. They will be Danish, or Canadian or Dutch. They'll say, 'One of our friends brought this home for us.' And then when they leave, they'll take some more matchboxes. It's kind of a cycle.'' 
 Mr. Karacam said the repatriated matchbox will invariably be full. ''Nobody has ever brought back a mint box,'' he added.
 Ms. Savitsky confirms that only a fraction of Flora's matchboxes are taken for their ostensible purpose. Their overriding utility, aside from lighting the odd candle, is promotional: ''They go out into the world, and they bring people back.''
 The power and reach of the matchbox -- and, far more widely in this country, the matchbook -- in restaurant advertising was once, of course, a given. The first commercial matchbook in America dates from the late 1890s, when a traveling opera company took a pile of ordinary blank covers and hand-decorated them with images and slogans promoting their New York opening. The manufacturer, Diamond Match, seized on the idea. 
 A young Diamond salesman named Henry Traute, the author of the enduring phrase ''Close cover before striking,'' also pioneered the matchbook industry's practice of selling ad space to small businesses across the country. By the 1940s, marketing careers and hobbyist collections were flourishing, thanks to the ubiquity of folded cardboard advertisements shielding ''20 little salesmen,'' a reference to the number of strikes in a standard book. 
 Restaurants could order matchbooks for pennies, and many switched designs numerous times in the course of a single year. ''It drove the hobbyists crazy,'' said Bill Retskin, founder of the American Matchcover Collecting Club, in Asheville, N.C., whose own inventory runs above a million specimens. 
 Mr. Retskin, who brokers only book matches and covers, looks askance at the boxed variety, virtually all of which are imported. If matchbooks have been the Lilliputian canvas of the American experience -- from beer to sports to pin-up girls to government public-service, patriotism and propaganda campaigns -- matchboxes speak to a more formal, at times rarefied, aesthetic. 
 The Cheers bar in Boston proffers matchbooks (and Norm Nuts); Tavern on the Green, in an effort to highlight the grandeur of its location within Central Park in Manhattan, upgraded several years ago from books to boxes bearing a horse and carriage motif. The restaurant, which routinely gave out thousands of matchboxes a month, ran out of them just before losing its lease and entering Chapter 11 this fall. Its consolation prize is having created a collector's item literally overnight, albeit not in Mr. Retskin's preferred form.
 A few blocks south, on 57th Street, the Russian Tea Room offers the exception that proves the matchbox rule. Founded in the 1920s by a group of emigre ballet dancers, the restaurant proved to be a buoyant New World clubhouse with Old World trappings. Where matches were concerned, the American bias eventually won out. Over the years, matchbooks in numerous styles, including a special oversize Christmas design adorned with pine boughs and ribboned gifts, were sent on their merry way. 
 The current owners, who took over in 2004, hunted through the restaurant's archives and scavenged collectors' Web sites in search of a matchbook design they could resuscitate. They chose a colorful cartoon graphic from the 1970s of a black-bearded Russian in an onion-dome hat astride a firebird. 
 Ken Biberaj, the Russian Tea Room's vice president, estimated that a couple of thousand matchbooks -- at 10 cents apiece -- go out the door each month, and his standing order is for 20,000. (Celebrity guests, particularly, seem to have a preference for large quantities, he said.) He has no qualms about increasing his order if necessary. ''We view our matchbooks as advertising, and what they are advertising is a memorable experience someone had,'' he said. 
 Needless to say, there are restaurants that don't buy in to match mania at all, and others that try to be discreet about it. At Le Bernardin, for example, insignia freebies are considered anathema to the dining experience, and matches are no exception. In the restaurant's view, they serve one purpose only, and that is to light a patron's tobacco. 
 ''Our matches are for the person who wants to step outside to smoke,'' said David Mancini, Le Bernardin's managing director. ''We don't have them in view, but we have them on hand when they're needed.'' Mr. Mancini added that the restaurant considers the proper portion size to be the half-book, an imported format accommodating a dozen strikes rather than the standard 20.
 At the other end of the spectrum are restaurateurs for whom insignia matches are appealing precisely because they can be a little surprising, maybe even a little subversive, in the postsmoking environment. For David Levy, they are both, and harbingers of romance to boot.
 Roni's Diner, founded by his father in 1991, is a neighborhood hangout in Beverly Hills with an improbably long and varied menu, flat-screen TVs, a cast of celebrity regulars and a steady stream of tourists. ''We like to break the rules,'' Mr. Levy said of his decision about a year ago to make book matches bearing the restaurant's logo and address. Roni's had never printed up a business card. 
 Mr. Levy admired the chic quotient of matchboxes and was especially enamored of the miniature ones at Jar, Suzanne Tracht's Los Angeles chophouse. But ultimately he decided that matchbooks were more suited to the Roni's clientele. ''I thought they'd be more comfortable in a jeans pocket,'' he said. ''Also, it turns out people use the back of a matchbook to write down the phone number of someone they just met, instead of keying it into their cellphone. Why? I think because it's nicer. And it's one more reason to keep the matches.''
 A Chicago spot, 33 Club, named for the year Prohibition was repealed, opened in August without matches, but that's only because Jerry Kleiner, the restaurateur, is perfecting the design. ''When they're done right, they're a piece of art,'' said Mr. Kleiner, who envisions an oversize blue and gold-leaf matchbox bearing a crest and the 33 Club logo. 
 Mr. Kleiner operates eight other restaurants in the area, none of which has matches. ''We had them till the antismoking thing happened and they fizzled out,'' he said. ''But I think I'm going to bring them back.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (pg. D1)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 LIT UP: Bill Retskin, matchbook collector, has more than a million matchbooks, including the ''Moonlight Ranch'' at left.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY REBECCA D'ANGELO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (RETSKIN, RANCH) AND TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEVE BROWN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); SMOKING CESSATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SMOKING BANS (89%); RANKINGS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



592 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: A Difficult Birth for East Harlem Mall

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Even by the often sluggish standards of development in New York City, East River Plaza, the big-box vertical mall under construction along the F.D.R. Drive in East Harlem, has proceeded at a glacial pace. 
 David Blumenfeld, the scion of a Long Island real estate family, first spotted the dormant Washburn wire factory in the early 1990s, while commuting to work in Syosset. To Mr. Blumenfeld, then in his 20s, the site seemed to offer the perfect chance to introduce suburban-style big-box shopping in Manhattan.
 Nearly two decades later, workers are finally preparing for the Nov. 12 opening of the shopping center's first tenant: a 110,000-square-foot Costco wholesale warehouse club, the borough's first. Target, Best Buy and Marshall's will start moving in next spring. Of 485,000 square feet, only 30,000 are not yet spoken for.
 The opening is coming 15 years after the Blumenfeld Development Group, headed by Mr. Blumenfeld's father, Edward, worked with Canyon Capital Realty Advisers of Beverly Hills, Calif., to buy the six-acre site, which stretches from 116th Street to 119th Street, for $3.1 million at a foreclosure auction. Five years later, the project was approved by the City Council. In 2004, Canyon Capital sold its interest to Forest City Ratner. 
 Many factors contributed to the delay, including a long battle with a cabinetmaker whose shop occupied land needed for a parking structure with 1,248 spaces. (Finally the developers bought his shop and five other properties.) The project was stalled for years over the question of whether public subsidies or shoppers would help defray the costs of the parking garage. 
 Mr. Blumenfeld said the project lost a lot of political muscle when Randy A. Daniels, the state official who had championed it, took a job in the private sector. Mr. Daniels described the delay as a classic example of what is wrong with the development process in New York. ''It takes too long to get anything done,'' he said. ''There are many missed opportunities because of that.''
 Now 45 and graying at the temples, Mr. Blumenfeld said he never expected the project would consume so many years. ''We've been to hell and back to get it done,'' he said. In the interim, the price tag ballooned to $500 million, partly offset by about $80 million in tax credits and other subsidies. In 1999, the price was estimated as $150 million. 
 One of the largest developments in northern Manhattan in decades, East River Plaza is the most significant commercial development in East Harlem since a Pathmark supermarket opened on Lexington Avenue and 125th Street in 2000. The Target store will be the first to be fully situated in Manhattan (a Target in the Bronx dips its toe into the Marble Hill section of Manhattan).
 But these days, East River Plaza no longer seems quite so pioneering. Superstores have proliferated in New York City, and some retailers like Home Depot have squeezed into smaller urban spaces, often on multiple floors. As the crime rate fell, retailers stopped shunning poor neighborhoods and developers took advantage of financial incentives. Even stacking large retailers on top of one another is no longer a novelty. 
 One new example is Gateway at Bronx Terminal Market, on 149th Street in the South Bronx, which took just five years to build, though it is twice the size of East River Plaza. Mr. Blumenfeld said the Related Companies, which developed Gateway, got the benefit of his trailblazing, even hiring the same architectural firm, Greenberg & Farrow. ''Obviously, things went a lot faster for Related,'' he said. Related officials have said they were inspired by Dadeland Station, a big-box center in Miami.
 Mr. Blumenfeld said his first challenge was getting superstores to accept the idea of operating in Manhattan. He said national chains could not imagine that apartment dwellers, especially renters, would shop in their stores. ''They all told me I was crazy,'' he said.
 Then, too, there were the logistical problems that big-box retailers do not encounter in the suburbs. How efficiently would the traffic flow through narrow urban streets? How would freight be moved to the higher floors? 
 Eventually, Home Depot and Costco agreed to be anchor tenants. ''It took years to get to that point,'' Mr. Blumenfeld said. Because of the delays, however, the developers had to redo the leases. The second time, Costco thought it had a deal but the developers decided to lease to Target. But then Home Depot slowed its expansion plans because of the recession and opened a store at Gateway while surrendering its space at East River Plaza to Costco. 
 Jeffrey H. Brotman, the chairman of Costco, said he expected annual sales at the East Harlem store to exceed $2,000 a square foot, about double the average. 
 While some residents living near the project are angry about the prospect of more noise and traffic, most residents are eagerly awaiting its opening, said Robert J. Rodriguez, the chairman of Community Board 11 in East Harlem. ''The overwhelming sense in the community is that this has been slated to happen for so long, the community really wants to see the benefits of this project,'' he said.
 Under an agreement with the developers -- including such concessions as the installation of double-paneled windows at the developers' expense, to block out noise for nearby residents -- a local nonprofit group is helping Costco recruit workers from the neighborhood and has identified 900 qualified candidates, more than twice the number of available jobs, he said.
 The project began to pick up speed after Forest City, a partner in the development of the headquarters building of The New York Times Company on Eighth Avenue, became involved. Having a well-connected local partner added strength to the project, Mr. Blumenfeld said.
 The thorny question of who would pay for the $62.4 million garage was resolved when the tenants finally accepted the notion of paid parking -- $4 for two hours, and an additional $9 for a third. 
 As his project nears completion, Mr. Blumenfeld said he was disappointed that the city's Planning Department had not allowed him to make the center's brick-and-limestone facade more eye-catching from the highway. ''This is one of the first properties you see when you come into Manhattan,'' Mr. Blumenfeld said. ''It deserves something more iconic.''
 Under a design commissioned from Kevin Roche, a Pritzer Prize-winning architect, the facade would have been draped in mesh, with an American flag sandblasted onto it.
 But city officials issued a stop-work order in 2007 after the Planning Department discovered that the facade did not conform to the design that had been approved in 1999, said Rachaele Raynoff, a spokeswoman for the department. Though the flag design was not rejected on aesthetic grounds, ''that is not to say that anybody liked it,'' she said.
 Amanda M. Burden, the planning commissioner, was one of three commission members to vote against East River Plaza in 1999. ''I don't think she thought this was the right use for the site,'' Mr. Blumenfeld said. Ms. Raynoff said Ms. Burden would not offer an opinion on the shopping center.
 The developers got a big shock last Dec. 11, when Bernard L. Madoff, the Blumenfelds' close family friend, was arrested and accused of a multibillion-dollar fraud. Edward Blumenfeld's personal guarantee for the East River Plaza loan was collateralized by his investment with Mr. Madoff, and Ruth Madoff, Bernard's wife, made a small investment in the project, David Blumenfeld acknowledged. ''It was a terrible day for us,'' he said, without further comment. 
 Looking back on his experience at East River Plaza, Mr. Blumenfeld said that developers of complex projects needed a lot of patience. ''Ten to 15 years is probably the right time horizon,'' he said. ''I don't know if a lot of people have the stomach for that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: East River Plaza in East Harlem. A Costco store opens there on Nov. 12, with more stores moving in next spring.
 David Blumenfeld began working on the project in the early 1990s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); RETAILERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); SUBURBS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); APPROVALS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (63%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (56%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



593 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2029 words

HEADLINE: Chef Do-It-All, The Master Builder

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
ATTENTION, diners navigating a nation of struggling restaurants: a whole universe of new properties is secreted in the feverish brain of Michael Bao Huynh, if only he can get to them all. 
 With five Vietnamese-inspired restaurants in New York already, some only a few months old, he has plans for as many as 10 more -- noodle bars, sandwich shops and fine-dining spots in Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn. And that's not to mention the restaurant in Oakland, Calif., opening next year, noodle and sandwich shops outside New York, a Vietnamese cooking school in Da Nang and a future flagship restaurant in Ho Chi Minh City.
 Some bloggers, observing Mr. Huynh's diminutive but surging restaurant collection, have mocked his supposed imperial ambitions. 
 ''I don't see this as an empire,'' said Mr. Huynh, 44. ''I'm just a small businessman.'' Though he added, ''I'm a gambler -- when you're hot, you have to play more.'' 
 Mr. Huynh -- a former boat person who learned to cook by his mother's side at her restaurant in Saigon -- has been able to capitalize on New York's infatuation with a cuisine for which he has proselytized. His mini chain of Baoguette shops cash in on the banh mi sandwich craze and dish up pho, the fragrant Vietnamese noodle soup New Yorkers have learned to love.
 And as a former contractor who can design both menus and restaurants, building many places himself to save on costs, Mr. Huynh has been able to turn hard times to his advantage. 
 Right now he is reaching for low-hanging 10-to-20-year leases all over town. ''Before the recession, chefs like me had no chance,'' said Mr. Huynh (pronounced win, with an initial hint of an ''h''). ''Rents were too high and everyone wanted key money -- $100,00 or $200,000. But now you can get a half-million-dollar restaurant for free, and rents are at least 20 percent down.''
 He sighed. ''Next year the rents will be up,'' he said in his voluble but strongly accented English, ''and guys like me will have no chance.''
 In his rush to grab the moment, though, Mr. Huynh has also stirred a spicy stew of partnerships, some of which have bubbled over in conflict. Some who know him question whether his world is both overextended and undermanaged. ''Michael is talented -- a mover and shaker,'' said Chris Johnson, a former partner in Bao 111, one of Mr. Huynh's first restaurants, and Bao Noodles. ''But he has no loyalty, he's not trustworthy and tends to move too quickly from project to project. That will be his downfall at some point.''
 Mr. Huynh countered that their failed partnership did not deserve his trust or loyalty and that like dozens of the city's chef-owners with multiple restaurants, he goes all-out to create a new property, haunting the kitchen, then delegating to his staff. ''Each place you open,'' he said, ''you get smarter and smarter.''
 Drew Nieporent, Mr. Huynh's partner in Mai House, which cycled through chefs and then shuttered as Mr. Huynh shifted his attention to other restaurants, said, ''I opened 33 restaurants in 25 years -- so I am not the pot to call the kettle black,'' adding, ''but when you go this fast and it doesn't work right, you are not going to create a lot of friends.'' 
 Mr. Huynh said he thinks of Mr. Nieporent as a friend, and would work with him again. (Mr. Nieporent observed radio silence when apprised of this.) 
 Since opening Mai House, Mr. Huynh has also opened Bia, a 55-seat beer garden at 154 Orchard Street; 10-seat Baoguette at 61 Lexington Avenue; 25-seat Baoguette Cafe at 37 St. Marks Place, Pho Sure, a 24-seat shop at 120 Christopher Street, and BarBao.
 Mr. Huynh's plans include OBao Noodles & Grill, an 85-seat outpost at 222 East 53rd Street; a 30-seat dessert and snack place, Spot (with the pastry chef Pichet Ong) at 13 St. Marks Place; a larger Baoguette at 9 Maiden Lane; B Clinton, a 38-seat French-accented Asian restaurant at 6 Clinton Street with a $29 three-course prix-fixe menu, and by summer an unnamed indoor-outdoor seafood restaurant (with a subterranean karaoke component) with 200 seats on the waterfront in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. A wannabe two-star for the Upper East Side is on the drawing board as are several downtown Vietnamese burger joints that Mr. Huynh said he is toying with naming Baoger.
 To visit with Mr. Huynh as he juggles urgent mobile calls from all his kitchens and construction sites at his table in his year-old BarBao at 100 West 82d Street is to sit in on a surging restaurant reality show. While many chefs begin their mornings buying produce, Mr. Huynh's days begin at 8, ordering construction materials for job sites. Afternoons and evenings, he is likely to be monitoring his restaurants, as he was at 2 p.m. recently in Pho Sure and at 10 p.m. in BarBao when a reporter made surprise visits.
 Aside from overseeing enterprises here, Mr. Huynh, the quondam refugee, returns regularly to Vietnam. He met his wife, Thao Nguyen, a decade ago in Ho Chi Minh City, he said, where she had a popular noodle shop. She is the culinary force behind the multiplying Baoguettes. They live in Gramercy Park with their 13-year-old daughter, Huong, from his wife's first marriage.
 Mr. Huynh, the oldest of six children, was born Huu Huynh, and the Bao nickname/brand adhered to him as an infant when he was very ill, said Mr. Huynh's 40-year-old sister, Thao Quan, a senior marketing manager for HSBC bank in Manhattan. ''In Vietnamese culture, if a child is sick, the monks give him a different name,'' she said, adding, ''the family knows him as Bao.''
 Mr. Huynh's father, Hi, was a successful architect in Saigon before the American helicopters withdrew in 1975. In the aftermath, architectural commissions evaporated, and Mr. Huynh's mother, Ngia Nguyen (''a great cook,'' Ms. Quan said), opened a restaurant so the family could survive. Mr. Huynh grew up in the kitchen. ''I learned how to work incredibly hard,'' he recalled.
 Ultimately his father encouraged the family to leave Vietnam ''because there was no future then,'' Mr. Huynh said.
 Ms. Quan said of her siblings that ''four of us escaped by boat, and Michael left first,'' adding: ''We had terrible fear, because my uncle's family tried it -- and their boat sank. They just disappeared.''
 Mr. Huynh recalls the menace of towering waves before being saved by the U.S.S. Midway in 1982. Eventually he found a foster family in the village of Jeffersonville in Sullivan County, N.Y.
 He went by the name Michael, he said, ''after Michael Jackson'' (he used the name on his naturalization certificate in 1988) and worked while at Jeffersonville High School. His salvation, he said, was his job as a dishwasher in Ted's Restaurant on Main Street.
 ''Soon he was one of the cooks on the line,'' said Tom Savopoulos, a son of the late Harry Savopoulos, who owned the restaurant. ''He was a great kid, well-spoken, ambitious -- and always working very, very hard.''
 Mr. Savopoulos said his family eventually took in Mr. Huynh, who occasionally cooked Vietnamese classics at home. Mr. Huynh sponsored Ms. Quan and her sister Paulette after they survived their own escape from Vietnam, she said, ''and we managed to get the entire family here.'' 
 But Jeffersonville ''was a sleepy little town, and Huu had ambitions,'' Mr. Savopoulos said. Eventually, when the sisters found foster sponsors in Brooklyn, Mr. Huynh joined them and began paying for architecture studies at the New York Institute of Technology by cleaning bathrooms at night and cooking for roommates and neighbors. 
 In the late 1980s, he said, he was shot by accident in a gang-related shooting in Queens. ''New York was a jungle of gangs then,'' he said, ''and I was hanging out with friends, partying. I was young -- it was a mistake.'' Recovering, though, ''made me much stronger.'' After working as an architectural expediter, he opened his own construction business, 7 Design, building restaurants and dreaming about opening his own.
 Mr. Huynh was a contractor for Nello Balan's now-defunct Nello SoHo restaurant ''and one day he came in with his bag of ingredients and cooked a terrific meal,'' said Mr. Balan, who owns celebrity hangouts in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. ''I was amazed by his talent. We became friends.'' 
 Mr. Huynh's first restaurant, Vicala, at 111 Avenue C, opened during the downtown meltdown after Sept. 11, 2001. ''I had to find partners to survive,'' he said of ''Chris and Chris'' -- Chris Johnson and Chris Andrews, former waiters from the halcyon early days of Balthazar, who went on to manage restaurants including Town and Bond Street.
 The three opened Bao 111 in what had been the Vicala space, winning a star from Frank Bruni in The New York Times in 2004. ''The Bao name became famous because of this collaboration,'' Mr. Johnson said, adding that ''Michael was an unknown cook and we tweaked him, both inside and outside of the kitchen to make him better.''
 Bao 111 closed last year but Bao Noodles, a spinoff on West 23d Street that the three men opened in 2003, is going strong without Mr. Huynh. 
 ''The Chrises'' trademarked the name Bao 111, Mr. Huynh said, without his knowledge -- something they deny -- and prevented him from using the Bao name in other ventures; they say they had the right to. 
 Mr. Johnson's version goes like this: ''Things went well for a while,'' but he added: ''His involvement in other side projects meant that he was never there, so the kitchens fell apart -- and we had to fix it.'' They bought him out.
 Soon Mr. Huynh was helping build the $2 million Mai House in TriBeCa with Mr. Nieporent, which won two stars when Mr. Bruni named it one of the 10 best 2007 restaurants. But it never made enough money and closed earlier this year. ''If he is going to make a significant contribution,'' Mr. Nieporent said of his former partner, ''he has to have one restaurant that he spends time in, and that people like -- and that stands the test of time.'' Some thought BarBao -- which Mr. Bruni gave one star for its ''ambitious and nuanced'' cuisine earlier this year -- could be that restaurant.
 But one of Mr. Huynh's BarBao partners, Paul Zweben, said ''we have a chef de cuisine who is very good, but we would love for Michael to be there more.'' Of Mr. Huyhn's ambitions, Mr. Zweben said that ''if he has the infrastructure, he can make it work and if he doesn't, it can all come tumbling down.''
 ''You can only slice a chef so thin.''
 Recipe: Shaking Beef (Bo Luc Lac) Adapted from Michael Huynh Time: About 15 minutes, plus 1 hour's marinating
 Adapted from Michael Huynh
 Time: About 15 minutes, plus 1 hour's marinating
 FOR THE MARINADE:
 2 pounds boneless beef sirloin, fillet, or rib eye, cut into 1-inch cubes
 10 garlic cloves, minced
 1 tablespoon Maggi seasoning or soy sauce
 1 tablespoon sugar
 1 teaspoon sea salt
 Freshly ground black pepper
 FOR THE SALAD:
 1 medium red onion, cut into paper-thin strips
 7 garlic cloves, minced
 2 tablespoons sugar
 1/2 teaspoon sea salt
 1/4 cup rice vinegar or cider vinegar
 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil
 Freshly ground black pepper
 1 head bibb or Boston lettuce, cored, leaves torn into large pieces
 1 cup shaved fennel bulb
 1 cup baby arugula
 1/2 cup mint leaves
 6 cherry tomatoes, halved
 2 tablespoons vegetable oil.
 1. For the marinade: In a bowl, combine beef, garlic, Maggi or soy sauce, sugar, salt and black pepper to taste. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour.
 2. For the salad: In a large serving bowl, combine onion, 2 minced garlic cloves, sugar, salt, vinegar and olive oil. Mix well, and season with black pepper to taste. Add lettuce, fennel, arugula, mint and tomatoes. Toss to mix.
 3. Preheat a large skillet over high heat, and add vegetable oil. Add remaining 5 cloves minced garlic. Add half the beef cubes and sear on all sides, shaking pan, until medium rare, about 1 minute. Reserve, then repeat with remaining beef. 
 4. Transfer beef to salad greens and toss, or serve salad and beef separately, divided among four plates. Sprinkle with freshly ground black pepper. If desired, serve with rice or crusty French bread.
 Yield: 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SURGING AHEAD: Michael Huynh at BarBao.(pg. D1)
 MOVER AND SHAKER: In his chef's role, Michael Huynh preparing Shaky Beef, below right, at BarBao on the Upper West Side, one of his newest ventures.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



594 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Culture, Staged on a Plate

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
THIS recession's over. At least that's the message the knights in white broadcloth are sending out at Marea, the elegant Italianate restaurant Chris Cannon and Michael White opened this spring in the space on Central Park South that used to be San Domenico. Cue the prosecco. Take a look at that Dover sole!
 Here is Sumner Redstone scowling at shadows. There is Henry Kravis sitting like Dorian Gray. Everyone between them looks low-slung and comfortable in butter-soft chairs, 125 of them, with the M104 bus swinging by the plate-glass windows up front, street lights shifting into red against the distant darkness of Central Park. It is all very pleasant and warm: rosewood on the walls; silver-dipped conches and nautiluses on the window sills. That bar back is honey onyx.
 Restaurants are culture as sure as music or paintings. They say something about who we are. So never mind the bold-faced names, those old familiar faces. Civilized people on the subway home from the Met talk about opera, not who has seats in the parterre box. Marea says, settle down. When the market was low, we spent like crazies and now look wise. You like to eat? Watch what is going to happen to you. 
 The very first item on the menu at Marea is ricci, a piece of warm toast slathered with sea urchin roe, blanketed in a thin sheet of lardo, and dotted with sea salt. It offers exactly the sensation as kissing an extremely attractive person for the first time -- a bolt of surprise and pleasure combined. The salt and fat give way to primal sweetness and combine in deeply agreeable ways. The feeling lingers on the tongue and vibrates through the body. Not bad at $14 a throw -- and there are two on each plate. 
 Mr. White arrived in New York in 2002 as the chef at Fiamma in SoHo, and showed himself to be an extraordinary practitioner of pasta. (At the unlovely Vento in the meatpacking district, he made a mean veal trotter.) Later, he teamed up with Mr. Cannon to make Alto a shrine to northern Italian food and L'Impero, now Convivio, a gallery for the best of that nation's south. He cooks Italian food as if it were purely American: big and bold. 
 While Marea is a seafood restaurant, it is not one that seeks to place a divide between that which swims and that which walks. It is perhaps more accurate to call it a restaurant inspired by seafood -- but by no means in thrall to it. 
 Halibut arrives with a little more lardo mixed in with its retinue of Manila clams, sweet corn and spigarelli (like a mild broccoli rabe), and a chili oil that might as well be fresh-squeezed sopressata. Fusilli come with a sauce made of octopus braised in red wine -- and thickened by bone marrow. The marrow would be gild on a lily if it weren't so flavorful, a more neutral demi-glace that is the perfect pairing for (who knew!) octopus.
 And the restaurant's one beef offering, a sirloin from the terrific Creekstone Farms outfit, dry-aged 50 days, grilled rare and served with more of that marrow cut into a bread salad, would do epic battle with the beef at any steakhouse in town. 
 But we get ahead of ourselves. The menu at Marea is divided into sections; diners may order a four-course meal for $89, plus perhaps a few add-ons for the table. That ricci, for instance, or a zeppole made of seaweed, shrimp and chickpeas that ought to be what people get when they order zeppole at street fairs. 
 There is as well a crudo menu -- and a crudo bar along the restaurant's east side, with seats for 20. It is not part of the prix fixe, but a geoduck clam with fresh chilies and lemon helps explain in one bite why men would dive amid huge swells to retrieve the things from the angry Pacific. You might also visit with the tuna and creamy (though creamless) oyster crema, with crisp bits of artichoke, or a hunk of striped bass acting as pack animal for a load of sturgeon caviar, drizzled in mussel vinaigrette.
 Mr. White treats antipasti as character studies. Knuckles of lobster arrive commingled with torn hunks of burrata cheese, the creaminess of both (literal in the case of the cheese, figurative on the part of the lobster) melding into eggplant cooked down as if it were mushrooms, with a grassy hit of basil on top. Monkfish cheeks orbit a slow-poached egg with a loamy mushroom ragu. 
 Worthwhile pastas, in addition to the fusilli, include a rich spaghetti with crab, sea urchin and basil. There is sweet cavatelli with red shrimp, controne-bean puree and rosemary, a loose cotechino sausage cut into risotto, silky with melted cod belly. You may pass on the seppia and shrimp ragu, mysterious as it is; cuttlefish, also part of an unexciting grilled main course, are not up to the treatments Mr. White puts them through.
 The main courses --secondi di pesce, the menu calls them -- are the restaurant's weakness. After the brilliance of the appetizer course and the winning flavors of those pastas, it is difficult to maintain focus on an architectural marvel involving porcini-dusted sea scallops. Adriatic seafood soup is laden with what might be the entire window display at Citarella. Too much.
 Better to hit shore for the steak (or a crisp roast guinea hen with asparagus) or upgrade into the whole-fish treatments: a few simply grilled langoustines, for instance, paired with a salsa verde, or that Dover sole with lemon. You want a simple sentence after the complex ones.
 Wine? You ought to have lots. Mr. Cannon has, with Francesco Grosso, conceived a fascinating, lengthy list. It may run unfamiliar to nonobsessives: lots of bracing whites heavy on coastal terroir, light reds good with fish. If you follow the Mark Bittman principle, which argues that the best way to order wine is to give the sommelier a price point and a challenge to match the bottle to the table's order, you ought to do well. Service at the restaurant is superb: helpful, friendly and apron-clad rather than black-tied and imperious. (Also knowing: I was dining anonymously, but was recognized at the door.)
 Heather Bertinetti is Marea's pastry chef. She doesn't fool around. Hers is a rich torrone gelato with black cocoa cake; she makes a mean crisp-polenta number with blackberry compote. Order the affogato, though, for maximum wow: a float of zabaglione gelato with small pours of espresso and amaro on top. This is iced coffee for the smart set, fantastic to eat and drink. 
 Marea is an ambitious restaurant, more so than any Mr. Cannon and Mr. White have opened. It is also in many ways a casual one, unfussy, as welcoming as a luxe clubhouse. It is not cheap nor meant to be. Art in Manhattan can be like that. Life is balance. You read the notices for ''Bye Bye Birdie'' on Broadway? Better dinner here than tickets there, plus what you'd spend at Sardi's for cannelloni and vodka.
 Marea
 240 Central Park South (Broadway), Columbus Circle; (212) 582-5100, marea-nyc.com.
 ATMOSPHERE A casually elegant room with quiet self-confidence features warm lighting, luxe materials, a gauzy view. 
 SOUND LEVEL The tinkle of silver on china, an occasional roar of laughter.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Ricci; lobster and burrata; slow-poached egg; fusilli; spaghetti; Dover sole; steak; langoustines.
 WINE LIST A wide-ranging, diverse and sporadically affordable list of wines, many Italian, that match well with a menu that is largely seafood.
 PRICE RANGE Appetizers, $8 to $21; pastas, $24 to $32; main courses, $35 to $47. Four-course prix fixe, $89.
 HOURS Lunch, Monday to Friday, noon to 2:30 p.m. Dinner, Monday to Thursday, 5:30 to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 11:30 p.m.; Sunday, 5 to 10 p.m. 
 RESERVATIONS Recommended for the main dining room. 
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Steps to diningroom; wheelchair users can enter restaurant through a side door. The bar is on street level. 
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 
 This restaurant is rated 3 stars. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); PAINTING (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (61%)

PERSON: CHRIS CANNON (77%); SUMNER REDSTONE (56%); HENRY KRAVIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



595 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Investors Take a Step Back After Data Offsets Earnings

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street swung lower on Tuesday after weaker wholesale prices and a tepid report on new-home construction pointed up the economy's lingering travails. 
 The backslide came even after a string of bellwether companies including Apple, the drug maker Pfizer and Caterpillar, which manufactures industrial equipment, reported strong profits. 
 After rising nearly 100 points on Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 50.71 points, or 0.5 percent, to end at 10,041.48. The wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.85 points, or 0.62 percent, to 1,091.06, and the Nasdaq was off about 0.6 percent at 2,163.47. 
 More than half of companies reporting earnings so far have beaten analysts' expectations, raising hopes that companies are past their worst financial troubles, according to the analyst Howard Silverblatt of Standard & Poor's. 
 Earnings per share are coming in nearly 12 percent ahead of expectations, and companies' sales figures are also beating estimates. The higher sales figures could offer a balm to investors worried that companies had been generating profits only through aggressive cost-cutting, and not by increasing revenue.
 So far, the earnings have bolstered investors on Wall Street. The major indexes are up about 3 percent for the month, their eighth consecutive month of gains, and shares of Apple are close to record highs. 
 ''This is a broad-based rally,'' said William Rhodes, chief investment strategist of Rhodes Analytics. ''I did not find anything in the market this week that I could go out and short.'' 
 But on Tuesday, investors seemed preoccupied by signals that the housing market remained sluggish and by signs that some industries were still hamstrung by lower prices.
 ''The bulls need to see the quality of earnings improve,'' Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities, wrote in a note to clients. ''The market is so far ahead of the economy that unless the quality of earnings improves, the broad market is due for a consolidation.''
 Shares of basic-materials producers, utilities and energy companies fell the most, as prices of commodities like oil, copper and coffee receded. Crude oil futures fell 52 cents to settle at $79.09 a barrel in New York, but were still near their highest levels of the year.
 Financial stocks also fell, a day before two big players in the world of investment and consumer banking were set to release their results. Those banks, Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley, are announcing their third-quarter earnings on Wednesday before the markets open, capping the major financial earnings reports. 
 Earlier this month, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs reported big profits while Citigroup and Bank of America continued to struggle. 
 Caterpillar gained the most in the Dow's roster of blue-chip stocks, rising 3.4 percent after its earnings topped estimates. The aircraft maker Boeing fell nearly 3 percent after analysts downgraded its stock, and the military contractor Lockheed Martin fell more than 6 percent after cutting its outlook. 
 Investors were wary of home-building companies like Brookfield Homes and Pulte Homes after the government's latest report on housing starts and building permits. The Commerce Department reported that new-home construction rose slightly in September, but fell short of economists' predictions. 
 Weakness in stocks reinvigorated the dollar for a day, and set off demand for safer investments like Treasury bonds. The 10-year note closed up 13/32, to 102 11/32. The yield fell to 3.34 percent, from 3.39 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week and 52-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (75%); FUTURES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); RETAIL BANKING (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); PFIZER INC (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); PFZ (LSE) (72%); PFEB (BRU) (72%); PFE (NYSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



596 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: As Time Runs Short for Global Climate Treaty, Nations May Settle for Interim Steps

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the clock running out and deep differences unresolved, it now appears that there is little chance that international climate change negotiations in Copenhagen in December will produce a comprehensive and binding new treaty on global warming.
 The United States and many other major pollutant-emitting countries have concluded that it is more useful to take incremental but important steps toward a global agreement rather than to try to jam through a treaty that is either too weak to address the problem or too onerous to be ratified and enforced. 
 Instead, representatives at the Copenhagen meeting are likely to announce a number of interim steps and agree to keep talking next year. 
 ''There isn't sufficient time to get the whole thing done,'' Yvo De Boer, the Dutch diplomat who leads the United Nations climate secretariat and oversees the negotiations, said late last week. ''But I hope it will go well beyond simply a declaration of principles. The form I would like it to take is the groundwork for a ratifiable agreement next year.''
 Negotiators have accepted as all but inevitable that representatives of the 192 nations in the talks will not resolve the outstanding issues in the time remaining before the Copenhagen conference opens in December. The gulf between rich and poor nations, and even among the wealthiest nations, is just too wide.
 Representatives of the 16 largest emitting countries and the European Union, who concluded a meeting in London on Monday, said that they had made progress on the level of aid needed to help poor countries adapt to climate change and adopt less-polluting energy technology. 
 They also said they had settled some questions on the ''architecture'' of any agreement reached in Copenhagen, while acknowledging that it would fall short of a binding treaty. 
 Yet expectations remain high for a meeting that carries important weight not just for the environment but for a broad range of international issues, including trade, security, economic development, energy production, technology sharing and the survival of some vulnerable island nations.
 So officials are now narrowing expectations and defining the areas where there is agreement, such as the need to halt and then reverse the growth of greenhouse gas emissions, although how and by which nations remain the subjects of intense dispute. Negotiators are also discussing what form any declaration that emerges from Copenhagen might take and how to ensure that any promises made there are kept.
 Among the chief barriers to a comprehensive deal in Copenhagen is Congress's inability to enact climate and energy legislation that sets binding targets on greenhouse gases in the United States. Without such a commitment, other nations are loath to make their own pledges.
 The chief American climate negotiator, Todd Stern, has said that he will not go beyond what Congress is willing to endorse. His deputy, Jonathan Pershing, affirmed this last week at a negotiators' meeting in Bangkok. ''We are not going to be part of an agreement we cannot meet,'' Mr. Pershing said.
 Administration officials and Congressional leaders have said that final legislative action on a climate bill would not occur before the first half of next year.
 European officials have been pressing hardest for some form of binding treaty modeled on the Kyoto Protocol of 1997, which the United States refused to ratify because, American officials said, it imposed emissions limits on developed nations while demanding nothing of rapidly growing economies like China and India.
 American officials have said that no agreement in Copenhagen is better than a bad deal that cannot be ratified or enforced. And they note that it took four years after the initial negotiation of the Kyoto accord to complete it.
 There is general agreement among international negotiators and knowledgeable observers that the parties to the Copenhagen talks, held under the auspices of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, will agree to continue discussions next year, and perhaps set a deadline for reaching a final agreement by midyear or December 2010 at the latest.
 The rest of the outcome, even the form it may take, remains uncertain. The world's biggest economies agreed at a meeting last summer in L'Aquila, Italy, on a goal of limiting global temperature increases to about 2 degrees Fahrenheit above current levels, though they did not agree on the means to get there or on how to enforce it. Such a goal is expected to be part of any declaration from Copenhagen. 
 Also likely to be included is a statement that wealthy nations should cut their emissions below certain benchmarks and that emerging economies should reduce their rate of emissions growth below a business-as-usual curve. No numbers were attached to either of these pledges, and that remains the stickiest of issues.
 Another unresolved issue is the financial structure of any international climate accord. The wealthy nations have agreed in principle to support low-carbon growth in the developing world and to help those countries hardest hit by climate change to adapt. But the amounts of money, the programs and the countries that would qualify for that support and for cost-sharing among donor nations are highly contentious issues unlikely to be settled in Copenhagen. 
 There will probably also be a promise to create an international system to monitor, report and verify emissions reductions, although there is no consensus yet on who would perform these tasks and what penalties would be assessed for failure to comply. 
 There is also likely to be a commitment by most nations to produce and publish economic growth plans based on lower carbon emissions and an agreement by advanced nations to share clean new energy technology with developing countries.
 ''The most likely form any agreement will take will be a political declaration,'' said Nigel Purvis, a former State Department climate negotiator in the administrations of Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. 
 ''It could be a statement by senior leaders, or it could be adopted by the parties as a formal decision,'' he said. ''That does not make it legally binding, but it sends a signal to the world of the direction the negotiations are going and give guidance to negotiators as they continue their work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); ENERGY REGULATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); THAILAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



597 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: N.B.A. Reaches a Deal With the Referees Union

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Negotiators for the N.B.A. and its referees union agreed Tuesday on a new contract, making it likely that the league's regular officials will be on the court when the regular season begins next week.
 The contract must be ratified by a majority of the union's 57 referees, with a vote scheduled for Friday. A person with direct knowledge of the negotiations predicted the deal would be approved, ending a lockout that began Sept. 18.
 ''It's highly likely the referees will be back on the court in time for the season,'' said the person, who requested anonymity while discussing private negotiations. 
 Spokesmen for the N.B.A. and the National Basketball Referees Association declined to comment.
 Both sides have reason for caution. Negotiators thought they had an agreement in late September before the union's executive board suddenly reversed itself. With board members split, the referees overwhelmingly rejected the proposal by a 43-to-14 vote.
 But the new agreement, reached during a meeting at the N.B.A.'s Midtown Manhattan offices, was apparently designed to meet the referees' remaining concerns.
 The meeting took place with all of the leading principals at the table, including Commissioner David Stern and the union's lead negotiator, Lamell McMorris, who had both withdrawn from the process during particularly contentious episodes.
 Stern pulled out of the talks after he and McMorris exchanged insults through the news media in early September. McMorris pulled out weeks later, after clashing with his executive board when the last agreement fell apart.
 Since then, the two sides have been quietly working on the parameters of a new deal, with both sides represented by their lawyers and other officials.
 There was increased urgency for all parties, with the regular season fast approaching. The first games will be played Tuesday night. The referees have missed two paychecks. The N.B.A. has not used replacement referees for a regular-season game since 1995.
 A crew of replacements, most of them from the N.B.A. Development League, have been working preseason games since Oct. 1. Although there have been no major incidents, games have generally been longer, with more fouls and more free throws. Three coaches have been fined for criticizing the replacement referees, but there has not been the mass outcry from players and coaches that accompanied the use of replacement referees in 1995.
 Details of the new contract are not yet available. The sides have been wrestling with three major issues: severance, pension and a proposal to use D-League referees for a small number of N.B.A. games each season.
 Stern is scheduled to speak with reporters during an annual preseason conference call on Friday, although it is not clear whether the deal will be ratified by then or whether he will be free to speak about it.
 The referees' previous contract, a five-year deal, expired Sept. 1. The N.B.A., reacting to a poor economy and declining revenue, was seeking a number of financial concessions in any new deal, although league officials said that the referees would maintain their pay level.
 In the agreement that was initially reached last month, the N.B.A. agreed to the referees' request for a shorter, two-year deal, which would allow them to revisit the contract after the economy has had a chance to rebound.
 Although coaches and players have generally praised the replacements for doing a solid job under difficult circumstances, most have been eager to see the regular referees return.
 ''Whatever they do, they do,'' said San Antonio Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich, speaking before a preseason game against the Oklahoma City Thunder in Austin, Tex. ''Let's start the season.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about an agreement on a new contract between the National Basketball Association and its referees union referred incorrectly to remarks made by David Stern, the league commissioner, to the news media in September. While Stern criticized the union, he did not ''exchange insults'' with the union's lead negotiator, Lamell McMorris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); LOCKOUTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); LAWYERS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



598 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Fall, Signaling Poor Wholesale Demand

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Even as investors were bidding up the prices of commodities like oil and gold last month, wholesale prices in the United States were falling, reflecting weak demand at home.
 The government's Producer Price Index fell 0.6 percent in September after rising by 1.7 percent a month earlier, the Labor Department reported on Tuesday. The figures show that, despite a weakening dollar, inflation remains a remote concern as the American economy struggles to pull itself out of a deep recession.
 ''The demand for goods is still very soft; the United States economy is just barely recovering,'' said Allen Sinai, president of Decision Economics. ''In a weak economy where consumer spending is weak, businesses have been slashing left and right. This surprisingly deflationary result reflects that.'' 
 Food and energy prices fell for the month, and prices were sharply lower than last year, when the financial crisis deflated a commodities bubble that had lifted gasoline prices to $4 a gallon and sent the dollar to record lows. In September, producer prices were down 4.8 percent from a year ago, and prices paid by consumers were 1.3 percent lower.
 Last week, the Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September from a month earlier, reflecting small increases in energy prices.
 In the latest report on prices received at the wholesale level, the government said that prices for crude goods fell 2.1 percent, showing that there was little inflation further down the ladder of production. 
 So-called core producer prices, which exclude volatile food and energy costs, fell by 0.1 percent in September, their third monthly decline of the year.
 But some economists said wholesale prices would probably head higher for October as the government's data collectors captured the rising prices of gasoline and crude oil. In September, gasoline prices at the producer level fell by 5.4 percent, making up nearly 80 percent of the overall decline.
 Since the start of October, crude oil prices have risen more than 10 percent in New York markets as the value of the dollar slipped to its lowest levels of the year. Gasoline prices at the pump have risen by 10 cents in the last week, to a nationwide average of $2.58 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile group.
 Despite these increases, policy makers at the Federal Reserve say they believe that inflation will remain muted in the months ahead. With 15 million people out of work, consumer demand shaky and businesses operating at reduced capacity, there is still an enormous amount of slack in the economy.
 ''The biggest factor for inflation will be the level of slack,'' said James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global. ''That's going to keep downward pressure on inflation.'' The price data coincided with a report from the Commerce Department that construction of new homes rose by 0.5 percent in September to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 590,000. The figures showed that the housing market was continuing to make a tentative recovery because of lower prices and a government tax credit for first-time home buyers. 
 But despite some stability in home sales and prices, potential buyers are still circling the edges of the market, and many builders are still unable to get financing to break ground on new projects.
 ''Gains from here on will probably be much more difficult to achieve, as poor labor market conditions, tight credit, overly leveraged household balance sheets, and still considerable inventory of new and existing homes all exert downside pressures,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, wrote in a research note.
 The number of housing starts was 28 percent lower than a year ago, and new building permits in September fell by 1.2 percent from August to a seasonally adjusted 580,000. The number of building permits issued in September was down nearly 30 percent from last year.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: PRODUCER PRICES: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department)
 HOUSING CONSTRUCTION: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOUSING STARTS (63%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



599 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Immigrants' Children Fall Behind Peers Early, Study Finds

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
The children of Hispanic immigrants tend to be born healthy and start life on an intellectual par with other American children, but by the age of 2 they begin to lag in linguistic and cognitive skills, a new study by researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, shows.
 The study highlights a paradox that has bedeviled educators and Hispanic families for some time. By and large, mothers from Latin American countries take care of their health during their pregnancies and give birth to robust children, but those children fall behind their peers in mental development by the time they reach grade school, and the gap tends to widen as they get older. 
 The new Berkeley study suggests the shortfall may start even before the children enter preschool, supporting calls in Washington to spend more on programs that coach parents to stimulate their children with books, drills and games earlier in their lives. 
 ''Our results show a very significant gap even at age 3,'' said Bruce Fuller, one of the study's authors and a professor of education at Berkeley. ''If we don't attack this disparity early on, these kids are headed quickly for a pretty dismal future in elementary school.''
 Professor Fuller said blacks and poor whites also lagged behind the curve, suggesting that poverty remained a factor in predicting how well a young mind develops. But the drop-off in the cognitive scores of Hispanic toddlers, especially those from Mexican backgrounds, was steeper than for other groups and could not be explained by economic status alone, he said.
 One possible explanation is that a high percentage of Mexican and Latin American immigrant mothers have less formal schooling than the average American mother, white or black, the study's authors said. These mothers also tend to have more children than middle-class American families, which means the toddlers get less one-on-one attention from their parents. 
 ''The reading activities, educational games and performing the ABCs for Grandma -- so often witnessed in middle-class homes -- are less consistently seen in poor Latino households,'' Professor Fuller said.
 The study is based on data collected on 8,114 infants born in 2001 and tracked through the first two years of life by the National Center for Education Statistics. The findings will be published this week in Maternal and Child Health Journal, and a companion report will appear this fall in the medical journal Pediatrics. 
 The analysis showed that at 9 to 15 months, Hispanic and white children performed equally on tests of basic cognitive skills, like understanding their mother's speech and using words and gestures. But from 24 to 36 months, the Hispanic children fell about six months behind their white peers on measures like word comprehension, more complex speech and working with their mothers on simple tasks. 
 The study comes as the Obama administration has been pushing for more money to help prepare infants and toddlers for school. In September, the House passed an initiative that would channel $8 billion over eight years to states with plans to improve programs serving young children. 
 In addition, the economic stimulus package included $3 billion for Head Start preschools and for the Early Head Start program, which helps young parents stimulate their children's mental development.
 Eugene Garcia, an education professor at Arizona State University, said the Berkeley-led study confirmed findings by others that the children of Hispanic immigrants, for reasons that remain unclear, tend to fall behind white students by as much as a grade level by the third grade. 
 ''It seems like what might be the most helpful with Latino kids is early intervention,'' Dr. Garcia said. 
 Carmen Rodriguez, the director of the Columbia University Head Start in New York City, said there was a waiting list of parents, most of them Hispanic, who want to take Early Head Start classes with their children. 
 Dr. Rodriguez said the study's findings might reflect a surge in interest in early childhood education on the part of middle-class Americans, rather than any deficiency in the immigrant homes. 
 ''Any low-income toddler is disadvantaged if they don't get this kind of stimulation,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); FAMILY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); WRITERS (88%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%); STATISTICS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (90%); LATIN AMERICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009



600 of 875 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Raises Forecast for Year

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Caterpillar, the maker of bulldozers and excavators, posted third-quarter earnings that beat analysts' estimates and issued a full-year forecast that exceeded the highest prediction. 
 Profit dropped to $404 million, or 64 cents a share, from $868 million, or $1.39, a year earlier, the company said Tuesday in a statement. The average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts was 5 cents a share. 
 Caterpillar has slashed inventories and production amid the worst decline in its markets since the Great Depression. The company cut about 18,700 full-time jobs and about the same amount of temporary workers since December 2008 as demand faltered. Sales fell 44 percent to $7.3 billion, from $12.98 billion in the third quarter of 2008.
 ''We believe the third quarter marked the low point for Caterpillar sales and revenues in what has been the toughest recession since the 1930s,'' Jim Owens, the chief executive, said.
 Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Ill., narrowed its 2009 forecast range to $1.85 to $2.05 a share, from $1.15 to $2.25. The average estimate was $1.48 a share. The highest prediction was $1.75. The revenue forecast is now $32 billion to $33 billion, compared with the previous forecast of $32 billion to $36 billion.
 The company said Tuesday that it expected the world economy to improve in 2010 with growth of about 3 percent, the highest growth rate since 2007.
 Caterpillar rose $1.76, or 3 percent, to $59.61 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 33 percent this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

PERSON: JAMES W OWENS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

 
