

201 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: HOW THEY DO IT;
Buying a Home at Government Auction

 BODY:
Gavin Barnes, 30, a mechanical engineer, and his wife Sherry, 34, a medical technician, wanted to buy a house, but California prices seemed too high, even in a recession. An ad in a newspaper led them to the Resolution Trust Corporation. The agency was set up by the Federal Government to dispose of the assets of failed savings institutions, mostly real estate, which it frequently auctions. (For information, call the R.T.C. at (800) 782-3006.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gavin and Sherry Barnes in their new home. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)
 
Chart shows how home purchase was made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (84%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (84%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (88%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



202 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: The Greener Side of Europe's Turmoil

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES

 BODY:
The loosening of Europe's currency controls this week has set the stage for rallies in select stock and bond markets there, financial experts say.
But the experts are advising American investors to make long-term investment decisions instead of short-term bets on Europe. A strengthening dollar could offset any gains abroad, and the foreign markets remain unpredictable. 
 "Most people don't make any money trading in and out," said Jarrod Wilcox, director of international investments at Batterymarch Financial Management and portfolio manager of Vanguard Trustees Equity Fund International, which has about half its assets in Europe. "You who are long-term investors, enjoy."
On Monday, European Community finance ministers agreed to let currencies float well beyond their previous limits. The wider range of currency movement is expected to free countries with sluggish economies to cut their interest rates, spurring economic recoveries and making stocks and bonds more attractive.
Spain and Portugal promptly lowered rates after the ministers' action. Sweden has announced that its rates will fall on Monday, and a rate cut is eagerly awaited in France.
Long before any of those decisions, American investors had begun shifting portions of their portfolios into foreign markets and mutual funds in search of higher yields. The "smart money" went to Europe earlier this year, said Justin Scott, portfolio manager of the Putnam Europe Growth Fund. European stocks had an explosive first quarter and another spurt recently.
Still, Mr. Scott sees room for further gains, as do many investors. Several companies, including Putnam and Fidelity, said flows into international funds, particularly Europe, had picked up in recent weeks.
American investors "just love the grass on the other side of the fence," said Richard Schmidt, a money manager with Stellar Management Inc. He prefers domestic stocks, including multinationals companies like Motorola, Coca-Cola and A.T.& T., which have operations abroad and could benefit from a recovery in the European economy.
Jack Brill, an independent financial planner in San Diego, also discourages knee-jerk reactions. "Europe has too much volatility," he said. "If I'm going outside the U.S. marketplace, I want to have a world perspective." He advises investors eager to get in on the action in Europe to put their money in a global bond fund, which spreads the risk.
Likewise, international stock funds can provide some exposure to Europe with less risk than a Europe fund.
The choice between stocks and bonds comes down to recent performance, said Kevin McCarey, a portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments who works with European institutional money. Bond prices in Europe have been rising for two years, while equity markets have been going up for six to nine months, indicating stocks are poised to do better, Mr. McCarey concluded.
Fund investors making a straight play on Europe will want to examine country allocations and hedging policies in addition to the usual criteria for domestic funds.
The biggest rallies since last fall have been in stock and bond markets in Britain and Italy, which pulled out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism last year after speculative selling caused a currency crisis similar to the one last week.
Most European stock funds have the largest chunk of their assets in Britain, followed by France, Switzerland and Germany. Some fund managers predict assets will eventually shift to countries that could benefit most from lower rates, though fund managers contacted during the week said they were not drastically shifting course.
While noting that his Putnam fund is not making big changes, Mr. Scott said France and smaller markets like Ireland, Denmark, Portugal, the Netherlands and Switzerland were becoming attractive.
Some of the best fund performers early this year capitalized on European rallies. For example, the Paine Webber Europe Growth Fund moved heavily into financial stocks, which then soared in anticipation of interest rate cuts. It also placed 12 percent of its assets in Italy, which rallied. Similarly, the GT Europe Growth Fund posted a double-digit gain thanks to stakes in Spanish and Italian stocks.
Fidelity's international funds have been particularly bullish on bank and insurance company stocks in Europe. Their largest single European holding is in STET, the Italian telecommunications company.
"We talk about stocks, then industries, then countries, then currencies," Mr. McCarey said. "Most Americans tend to think about them in the opposite order."
On the currency front, a 10 percent gain in the dollar against the French franc would wipe out 10 percent of any gains in the French stock market for Americans.
But fund managers say the substantial increases in the dollar this year bode well for investors. "The major moves are probably over," Mr. McCarey said. "So as markets appreciate in Europe, you'll probably keep more of it."
Many European stock funds try to guard against currency risk by hedging, or putting some assets into dollars. The trade-off, of course, is that their gains from European rallies will be smaller.
"For people who don't want the uncertainty, it may pay to choose a fund that's hedged," said Catherine Voss Sanders, associate editor of Morningstar, the mutual fund rating company in Chicago. "Maybe they can sleep better at night not hanging on the Bundesbank's every move."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Currency Drag" shows how prices of European stocks have lagged behind the Dow in past year. (Source: Datastream)
 
Chart: "The Top European Stock Funds" lists top ten European stock funds, with 12-month returns, whether funds use hedging and leading countries in each's portfolios.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (74%); BATTERYMARCH FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; CURRENCY MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

PERSON: JONES, KATHRYN CLARE SHORT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1993



203 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 8, 1993

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	52	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $14.95.) A photographer and a lonely farmer's wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	21	THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $23.50.) A deadly secret, revealed by a lawyer just before he kills himself, presents problems for an 11-year-old boy.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	4	THE NIGHT MANAGER, by John le Carre. (Knopf, $24.) A Zurich hotelman's life in the world of arms dealers, dope smugglers and international terrorists.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	17	LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE, by Laura Esquivel. (Doubleday, $17.50.) Frustration, love, hope -- and recipes -- sampled by a woman on a Mexican ranch.	 	 	 	 	 5	9	4	HONOR AMONG THIEVES, by Jeffrey Archer. (HarperCollins, $23.) Saddam Hussein plots to steal and destroy the Declaration of Independence.	 	 	 	 	 6	5	10	PLEADING GUILTY, by Scott Turow. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A lawyer in pursuit of his firm's missing partner and a multimillion-dollar fund.	 	 	 	 	 7	6	7	PIGS IN HEAVEN, by Barbara Kingsolver. (HarperCollins, $22.) The stresses and strains that befall a mother and her adopted Cherokee daughter.	 	 	 	 	 8	7	7	CRUEL & UNUSUAL, by Patricia D. Cornwell. (Scribners, $21.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta investigates mysteries involving a man executed for murder.	 	 	 	 	 9	8	4	AFTER ALL THESE YEARS, by Susan Isaacs. (HarperCollins, $23.) The plight of a woman whose estranged husband is found murdered in her house.	 	 	 	 	 10	12	2	SAVING GRACE, by Julie Garwood. (Pocket, $22.) The romantic problems of a 13th-century English widow.	 	 	 	 	 11	10	10	THE SCORPIO ILLUSION, by Robert Ludlum. (Bantam, $23.95.) A former naval officer tracks down a terrorist conspiracy headed by a vengeful woman.	 	 	 	 	 12	11	5	HILL TOWNS, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $22.) Americans on a holiday in Italy learn a lot about their marriage and themselves.	 	 	 	 	 13	15	2	A CASE OF NEED, by Michael Crichton writing as Jeffery Hudson. (Dutton, $18.95.) A 1968 novel about the mysterious death of a surgeon's daughter on an operating table.	 	 	 	 	 14		1	STREETS OF LAREDO, by Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A Texas bounty hunter goes south of the border in pursuit of a train robber and killer.	 	 	 	 	 15	13	14	I'LL BE SEEING YOU, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A television news reporter has mystifying experiences when she covers a story.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	52	WOMEN WHO RUN WITH THE WOLVES, by Clarissa Pinkola Estes. (Ballantine, $23.) How myths and folk tales can enable women to understand their psyches.	 	 	 	 	 2	3	8	THE FIFTIES, by David Halberstam. (Villard, $27.50.) A journalist's social, political, economic and cultural history of the 1950's.	 	 	 	 	 3	4	7	DAYS OF GRACE, by Arthur Ashe and Arnold Rampersad. (Knopf, $24.) The memoirs of the late tennis star.	 	 	 	 	 4	2	47	THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush H. Limbaugh 3d. (Pocket, $22.) Anecdotes and opinions offered by the talk-show host.	 	 	 	 	 5	9	4	LISTENING TO PROZAC, by Peter D. Kramer. (Viking, $23.) A psychiatrist discusses mood-changing medications and their effects on a person's self.	 	 	 	 	 6	5	9	REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION, by Michael Hammer and James Champy. (Harper Business, $25.) A manifesto for business innovation.	 	 	 	 	 7	6	13	EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT, by Betty J. Eadie with Curtis Taylor. (Gold Leaf Press, $14.95.) A woman's near-death experience.	 	 	 	 	 8	8	34	CARE OF THE SOUL, by Thomas Moore. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) A psychotherapist's discussion of spirituality and everyday life.	 	 	 	 	 9	10	9	MAMA MAKES UP HER MIND, by Bailey White. (Addison-Wesley, $17.95.) Life in a tiny Georgia town; by a first-grade teacher and radio commentator.	 	 	 	 	 10 *	15	4	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Turtle Bay/Random House, $17.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.	 	 	 	 	 11	12	25	HEALING AND THE MIND, by Bill Moyers. (Doubleday, $25.) Conversations with physicians and others about the relationship of sickness to thoughts and emotions.	 	 	 	 	 12	7	12	A WORLD WAITING TO BE BORN, by M. Scott Peck. (Bantam, $22.95.) A call for people to make civility part of their lives.	 	 	 	 	 13	11	10	SECRET CEREMONIES, by Deborah Laake. (Morrow, $20.) The unhappy marriages of a woman raised as a Mormon.	 	 	 	 	 14	13	8	RACE MATTERS, by Cornel West. (Beacon, $15.) A Princeton professor assays issues affecting black Americans.	 	 	 	 	 15		15	THINKING OUT LOUD, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $22.) Essays on current topics by the New York Times columnist.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to, and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	2	AGELESS BODY, TIMELESS MIND, by Deepak Chopra. (Harmony, $22.) A physician's advice about aging.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	6	EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS, by Dean Ornish. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) Counsel about diet and nutrition.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	12	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $20.) Ways to improve communication and relationships between the sexes.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	15	A WOMAN'S WORTH, by Marianne Williamson. (Random House, $17.) Advice for women.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending July 24, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
CAPE OF STORMS: The First Life of Adamastor, by Andre Brink. (Simon & Schuster, $16.) Grave and tragic can be expected of a fable of the first interracial contact in South Africa; Mr. Brink makes it diverting and witty as well. Miraculous!
CRUELTY AND SILENCE: War, Tyranny, Uprising, and the Arab World, by Kanan Makiya. (Norton, $22.95.) The cruelty is that of the Saddam Hussein regime in the author's native Iraq; the silence, that of the Arab intellectuals who condone or assist it.
CUERVO TALES, by Robert Roper. (Ticknor & Fields, $19.95.) Ten interlinked stories that follow a burned-out survivor of the luminous, excessive 1960's into the downer decades that followed.
DENYING THE HOLOCAUST: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory, by Deborah E. Lipstadt. (Free Press, $22.95.) A historian untangles the perverse and ingenious arguments of those who say there was no Holocaust.
THE FORGOTTEN PLAGUE: How the Battle Against Tuberculosis Was Won -- and Lost, by Frank Ryan. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A sobering narration, with possible implications for AIDS, of the 70-plus years and the generations of scientists it took to cure tuberculosis (which is still around).
THE HIDDEN LIFE OF DOGS, by Elizabeth Marshall Thomas. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) What do dogs want, feel, even think? A close, sympathetic observer's data make this a profoundly unsilly question.
IF YOU KNEW ME, by Anne Roiphe. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) The evocative language of this novel supports the improbably successful grasp at happiness of a newly met middle-aged couple.
IN AN ANTIQUE LAND, by Amitav Ghosh. (Knopf, $23.) Medieval and modern life in the Levant illuminate and complement each other in this study by an anthropologist.
A MOMENT OF WAR: A Memoir of the Spanish Civil War, by Laurie Lee. (New Press, $17.95.) An English poet and memoirist's bleak, understated, metaphorical monument to his ragged brigade of international volunteers.
MONKFISH MOON, by Romesh Gunesekera. (New Press, $16.95.) Everyone feels afraid and guilty in this melancholy first collection of fiction from Sri Lanka, a rapidly imploding nation.
ONCE UPON A TIME: A True Story of Memory, Murder, and the Law, by Harry N. MacLean. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) A true-crime tale that transcends its genre in its examination of the sudden return of a witness's buried memory.
PHILIP LARKIN: A Writer's Life, by Andrew Motion. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Pre-eminently the modern poet of death, Larkin in this biography by a poet and friend is overtaken in life by the postures of his poetry.
PICASSO AND DORA: A Personal Memoir, by James Lord. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Life at the heart of the post-1945 artistic enterprise: what a genius, his mistress and a shrewd memoirist did and said to and about one another.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CONSPIRACY (75%); SMUGGLING (74%); TERRORISM (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); MURDER (55%); GUILTY PLEAS (51%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (51%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



204 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Alaska's Folly

BYLINE: By Ann Crittenden; Ann Crittenden's latest book is "Killing the Sacred Cows: Bold Ideas for a New Economy."

 BODY:

EXTREME CONDITIONS
Big Oil and the Transformation of Alaska.
By John Strohmeyer.
287 pp. New York: Simon & Schuster. $23. 
A FEW years ago John Strohmeyer, who won a Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing in 1972, retired early from The Globe-Times in Bethlehem, Pa., and headed for Alaska, fantasizing about pristine wilderness and sparkling salmon streams. He did fall in love with Alaska, but with the disillusionment of one who realizes that his beloved is a reckless, feckless wanton. "Extreme Conditions" is a cri de coeur, warning the rest of us that our last great natural frontier is on a self-destructive rampage.
Mr. Strohmeyer's theme is as old as the story of Midas: Big Money spells Big Trouble. In his telling, the real trouble for Alaska began in the late 1970's, when oil started to flow from a fabulous field at Prudhoe Bay. By the early 80's the state's revenues had risen tenfold, to $4.5 billion. Like the Nigerians, the Venezuelans, the Arabs, the Texans and other recipients of sudden unearned wealth, the Alaskans promptly proceeded to wallow in it, waste it and steal it. The tales of human folly, cupidity and stupidity chronicled here are enough to restore one's faith in original sin.
Mr. Strohmeyer's chapters on the nouveau riche state's investments should be required reading in capitals that cherish the idea that bureaucrats can pick winners. According to his account, Alaska officials blew more than $100 million in ill-fated attempts to establish a dairy industry, a barley program, fox farms, mushroom farms and a fish-processing plant that produced little but a smell. Not to mention $1 billion wasted on publicly underwritten bad housing loans. And while union bosses and public officials, from mayors up to governors, ran roughshod over the law during the 1980's, he continues, the citizens looked the other way, preoccupied with getting theirs. Alaska is the only state that pays its citizens dividends instead of taxing them.
None of this might be of interest to the rest of us, were it not for the fact that some of the world's most wondrous creatures and spectacular scenery are at the mercy of these knaves and fools. The oil companies, Mr. Strohmeyer says, "rearranged the legislature to their liking with hefty campaign contributions," and were able to neglect their safety commitments until the predictable result, the killer 1989 oil spill in Prince William Sound.

 Overdevelopment and overfishing have turned parts of the Kenai River into a trashy, depleted slum, he writes. He maintains that native corporations, set up to manage the cash and the 44 million acres awarded to Eskimos, Indians and Aleuts by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971, have furiously logged much of the state's old-growth rain forest, selling 40-foot virgin Sitka spruce from the Tongass National Forest to Japan. Under Alaskan-style capitalism, the land has had few stewards. (Indeed, the greatest environmental victory for Alaska recently came through a decision by Canadian officials to permanently protect the 2.5 million-acre watershed of the Tatshenshini and Alsek rivers and coastal salmon fisheries from destruction by a proposed open-pit copper and gold mine.)
"Extreme Conditions" is not the kind of thing the Alaska Chamber of Commerce would approve of. It is not particularly well written. Its brand of outrage seems almost old-fashioned. That's a compliment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EXTREME CONDITIONS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (75%); OIL SPILLS (73%); WILDERNESS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (67%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (64%); MUSHROOM PRODUCTION (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (60%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); 

PERSON: CRITTENDEN, ANN; STROHMEYER, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



205 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 12; Column 6; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Putting Filmgoers In the Big Picture

BYLINE: By DAVID EVERITT; David Everitt writes about film and video for Entertainment Weekly and Video Review.

 BODY:
WHAT IS THE MOVIEgoing experience of the future? Is it watching a film on a compact screen at a local multiplex or, as some industry mavericks believe, is it being swept into vast panoramas and headlong action on an outsize screen in a specially built theater? The film might be a Hollywood feature produced on an unusually grand scale or, more likely, a new concept in entertainment -- a combination movie/theme-park ride.
Three companies -- Imax, Iwerks Entertainment and Showscan -- are currently engaged in what might be called the battle of the big screens, each competing to create a future in which their giant screen plays a role. 
 Screens as wide as 90 feet, with intensified picture clarity, began turning up in specialty theaters, mostly in museums, more than 20 years ago. Showscan then turned motion simulation into entertainment. In this process, now popular at theme parks overseas, seats tip this way and that in sync with hair-raising swoops and turns seen in the high-speed journeys -- car races, downhill skiing and outer-space exploration -- projected on a large screen.
To bring the giant screen to a wider public, Iwerks, based in Burbank, Calif., is launching the first in a chain of multi-attraction centers: Cinetropolis, a $15 million complex in Ledyard, Conn., will open this fall and combine three attractions under one roof: a giant-screen theater, a 360-degree wraparound screen and a motion simulator to accompany such attractions as a filmed roller-coaster ride and fantasy underwater chase.
Showscan, meanwhile, will open a simulator theater this fall at the Universal Citywalk in Los Angeles. Based in Culver City, Calif., the company also plans to install one in Manhattan next year. Among the new attractions will be a film ride that takes the viewer on a careening, stomach-turning subterranean journey.
Finally, the Canadian-based Imax, the oldest and most prominent giant-screen company, has plans to install a theater within a Sony multiplex in Manhattan. Imax installed both the Naturemax Theater at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan and the domed Omni Theater at Liberty Science Center in Jersey City.
The three competitors seem to agree on one thing: The proliferation of multiplexes and home video has made conventional theaters less alluring. According to the National Association of Theater Owners, ticket sales from 1977 to 1990 were flat, at 1 billion to 1.2 billion a year, and in 1991 and 1992 the number of theatergoers each year dropped to just below a billion.
Douglas Trumbull, who invented the Showscan giant-screen process, sees a trend in audience tastes. "My statistics tell me," he says, "that 70 percent of the domestic box office comes from movies that are wide screen, stereo sound, with a lot of adventure and special effects. And that indicates that what the public really wants is some experience that goes beyond the commonplace."
Until now, most giant-screen offerings have been educational films; only one entertainment-oriented feature has been made, and it has yet to inspire any studio to take the giant-screen plunge.
In 1991, Imax released its Rolling Stones concert feature, "At the Max," whose box-office performance was not as impressive as its reviews. Greg Breen, vice president of marketing at Imax, concedes that the film's distribution was hindered by an inability to place a rock-and-roll movie in all the existing Imax theaters. "Some of the museum Imax theaters raised the question: 'Does this fit in with our mandate?' "
Mr. Breen maintains, however, that the film demonstrated "the ability to command a high ticket price, and people were going away happy." As to whether "At the Max" furthered the cause of giant-screen features, the Showscan co-founder Roy Aaron is more blunt. "No. I don't think it really impacted on it."
Disagreements over the effect of "At the Max" underscore the differences in the competing systems. Both the Imax and Iwerks systems use a proportionally tall screen, with seating so steeply raked that viewers in the last row are still relatively close to the projected image and have a sense of involvement with the film. The Showscan screen, on the other hand, conforms to the more traditional dimensions of Cinemascope, which is wide-screen as opposed to tall-screen.
Mr. Trumbull, who left Showscan four years ago and has since started his own company, believes each process possesses strengths: Imax is best suited for "spectacular giant-screen vistas," but "you can tell a better story in Showscan.
While each of the giant-screen companies asserts it has the right system to deliver Hollywood features, none has a deal to produce one. Some daunting economic obstacles need to be overcome. Studios must be convinced that they should spend money to make movies in more expensive, giant-screen formats; exhibitors have to be willing to install new projection systems, and consumers must be ready to pay a bigger ticket price for a bigger moviegoing experience.
Stan Kinsey, chairman of Iwerks, has a dream: "I can see a scenario where there will be two tiers of movie theaters, 10, 15 years from now, with a $15 ticket to go to a high-end giant-screen movie, to see something very special, before it goes to regular movie theaters."
Mr. Kinsey says, however, that he does not think giant-screen Spielberg extravaganzas or Schwarzenegger thrillers are necessarily the goal. The variety of offerings, such as motion simulation and, eventually, virtual reality, could attract a thriving business.
Mr. Trumbull agrees that a new concept of entertainment, not traditional feature films, must accompany high technology. He likens his giant-screen film concept to the highly sensory "trip" sequences of "2001: A Space Odyssey," a film on which he served as a visual effects supervisor.
Mr. Trumbull also directed the Imax film that accompanies the "Back to the Future" motion simulation ride, and he has used the Showscan format for a multimedia attraction at the Luxor Hotel in Las Vegas. The project includes a motion simulator, a giant-screen video show and a vertical film screen attraction that measures 70 feet in height.
"It's time for a new kind of film industry to emerge, and it's going to emerge in a form that's probably closest to the Cinetropolis multi-attraction," he says. "I don't think the audience demands a two-hour length when they're seeing a giant-screen movie -- 15 to 20 minutes is perfectly adequate. We're going to see a completely different kind of viewing habit, a more diverse but more powerful and immersive entertainment in an urban entertainment setting."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mick Jagger in "At the Max"--Good reviews; poor box office. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IMX (TSX) (85%); IMAX (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (85%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (85%); NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (57%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMAX (CO); IWERKS ENTERTAINMENT; SHOWSCAN CORP IMAX CORP (85%); SIMEX-IWERKS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMAX (CO); IWERKS ENTERTAINMENT; SHOWSCAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (67%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); MOVIE THEATERS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); TRENDS (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); HISTORY (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SKIING (67%); SPACE EXPLORATION (66%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: EVERITT, DAVID MICK JAGGER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



206 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 2; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2204 words

HEADLINE: A Great Museum Struggles To Keep Up Appearances

BYLINE: By JOHN RUSSELL

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia

 BODY:
THE TOP-OF-THE-LINE TOURIST ATTRACtion in St. Petersburg is still what it always was -- the tour of the Hermitage. If the museum ranks level, in this respect, with Versailles and the Louvre rolled together, it is because that's exactly what it is, with additional echoes of the Metropolitan Museum, the British Museum and the Uffizi in Florence. There will never be anywhere quite like the Hermitage for the presentation of so great a diversity of major art in an architectural wonderland.
For this reason, the fortunes of the Hermitage in the tumultuous times that have broken out all over the former Soviet Union are a matter of international concern. The worst potential calamities have been avoided. Nothing from the collections can or will be sold. Together with its friendly rival the Russian Museum in St. Petersburg, the Hermitage has been formally ranked by President Boris Yeltsin among the top cultural institutions of Russia. 
 This hardly needed to be spelled out. The Hermitage and the Russian Museum were also declared to be federal property, and for that reason exempt from privatization. The operating budget of the Hermitage is to be a part of the federal budget. When the Hermitage earns hard currency in one way or another, it is to have a new degree of autonomy in the use of that money. Substantial tax reliefs were also included in recent written assurances.
Under its new director, Mikhail Piotrovsky, who succeeded in 1992 to the post to which his late father, Boris B. Piotrovsky, had brought both an inimitable charm and an invincible gaiety, the Hermitage has also begun to look abroad for corporate sponsorship.
In a report prepared for Unesco earlier this year, written primarily by Edmund Pillsbury, director of the Kimbell Museum in Fort Worth, it was said that "the Hermitage currently earns about 20 percent of its operating budget from various forms of sponsorship, admissions and sales from its shops."
The Coca-Cola Foundation lately gave $300,000 toward the establishment of a new conservation studio. (It may be relevant that Pepsi-Cola for years had the monopoly of the cola market in the Soviet Union.) A joint Russian-American marketing company for the Hermitage has been set up. The French oil giant Elf Aquitaine is to sponsor important loans to the Hermitage from the Pompidou Center in Paris. An international society called the Friends of the Hermitage is to be founded with the support of Unesco. It would therefore be a mistake to see the Hermitage as a time-warped relic of the past whose staff has sat down and sobbed when trouble loomed.
MEANWHILE, FOR A FOReign visitor to St. Petersburg, a tour of the Hermitage remains mandatory. "Business is brisk," visitors say to themselves when the great rooms look like peak hour at Grand Central Station. Sometimes the tour takers are the archetypal captive audience -- packed in, motionless, like riders on the Russian subway. Sometimes, on the other hand, they have to push and shove and break into a run to keep up with the guide.
Either way, the tour is likely to bring both enrichment and a glorious confusion. Directions are rarely indicated. English-language labels are nowhere to be seen. It is natural that group visitors from the West often become disoriented.
They may not resent it. They may never see the Greek sculptures, the Buddhist paintings, the collection of coins (over a million), the Coptic rarities in the Egyptian collections, the 18th-century scientific instruments, the 8th-century ceramics from Samarkand or the relics of the Stone Age in Russia. But they will still have seen far more than any human being can master in a morning, or even in a month.
If rooms are closed -- as many are at this moment -- visitors may not sense that anything is amiss. They may, in fact, come away with the impression that, all things considered, and given the heavy traffic, the Hermitage is in pretty good shape.
That impression would not be well founded. The Hermitage is not in good shape. There is much to be desired in the state of the buildings, the state of the collections, and the conditions in which devoted staff members go about their work.
The more than 300 rooms that make up "the Hermitage" are spread out in the Old Hermitage, the New Hermitage, the Little Hermitage and the colossal profusion of the Winter Palace. The Hermitage is bigger than many a small town.
Its buildings are in many styles and were built or rebuilt at widely differing dates. They do not age at the same speed or in the same way. What suits one does not suit another. The Winter Palace was gutted by fire in 1837. Bombing, shellfire and inevitable neglect did much damage during World War II, when the city endured one of the longest and most terrible sieges in history.
Right now, roofs could leak, in bad weather, with catastrophic results both to the exhibits and to interiors that are themselves major works of art. The dangers of fire cannot be overrated. Underground water and pervasive damp are a continual problem. So is pollution in a great city long ringed by heavy industry of a primitive and brutal sort.
What is known in the museum world as HVAC (heating, ventilation and air-conditioning) is rudimentary, where it exists at all. The beloved buildings are in many ways incompatible with modern technology. Long mooted, and long overdue, is the relocation of the huge miscellaneous collections that are now stored within the Hermitage itself in blatantly inadequate conditions.
An excellent storage space was found on the Petrogradsky Island, on the far side of the river Neva, and work was started. Given the right resources, the space could be ready for use six to nine months from now. But, like so much else in Russia at this moment, the project is on hold.
Another bright future was made possible a year or two ago, when the city made over to the museum a wing of the Central Staff building on Palace Square, almost under the windows of the Hermitage. Commissioned by Alexander I in 1819 from the architect Carlo Rossi, the building had just been vacated by the Ministry of Defense.
It had long been a dream in the Hermitage that part or all of Rossi's masterpiece would become available. Plans were at once set in hand for a museum of the decorative arts from the Hermitage's own enormous holdings, a large research library, conservation workshops, a restaurant and a cafeteria on one of the noblest squares that any city has to show. But, once again, the buildings stand empty and quietly deteriorating.
A basic obstacle to all such projects is that they depend on hard currency. (Another is that the legislation making the Hermitage federal property has yet to come into force.) The cooperation of specialized industries in both Finland and Poland was indispensable. So was the good will, in certain contexts, of the Baltic states.
But neither Finns nor Poles will work for rubles. New triumphs of technology cannot be acquired on credit. Relations with the Baltic states went sour. With budgets frozen, and with the Soviet Union unraveling and internal inflation gone completely out of hand, the plan was halted.
Speaking of frozen options like these, Boris Ometov, chief inspector of monument protection in St. Petersburg, said: "Things couldn't be worse. In these contexts, stop-go is worse than steady dilapidation. There is also another grave danger. Ever since World War II, restoration in and near St. Petersburg has depended on devoted and experienced craftsmen who know the city inside out. If today they chose to work for the private sector, where there is now a great demand for them, they could earn many times what we can pay."
Two sinister factors have also to be considered. One is vandalism. The other is theft. Both are rampant in the city. There is too, as everywhere else, a minority of fanatics in whom the wish to destroy has reached near insanity. Every great museum in the world faces that risk, and the Hermitage had its full share of it when, some years ago, Rembrandt's "Danae" -- one of the greatest of all European paintings -- was damaged almost beyond repair.
To combat incidents of that sort, a state-of-the-art security system is needed, and that, too, calls for hard currency. As for theft, the enemy is not the primeval smash-and-grab but sophisticated systems that outwit the defense. In the storage areas that house around 95 percent of the collections, it is impossible to keep tabs on works of art that number in the millions and in many cases are very small.
There is something endearing about the ancient handwritten inventories that abound in the Hermitage, but at a time when people in St. Petersburg will steal office door handles for the brass and locks for their resale value, there is no substitute for computerization.
And then there is the staff. A great museum is only as great as its staff. The Hermitage was lucky with its staff throughout virtually the entire Soviet period. Undefeated and fearless human beings upheld high standards of responsibility, even when Stalin wanted to disperse the great collections of late-19th- and early-20th-century French painting and pack them off, canvas by canvas, to remote and dreary little towns in which their power to contaminate could be contained.
A close watch was always kept on staff members. It was out of the question for them to travel abroad. Party stalwarts saw to it that they were passed over for promotion. Today the staff members who held firm are invaluable to their colleagues in the West. (It was said not long ago that the only true and effective International in the world is the International of museum curators.)
Nowhere do curators get rich on their salaries. A senior curator in the Hermitage said to a visitor the other day: "As a member of the Hermitage staff, I am better off than I'd be in a smaller museum. My salary is now the equivalent of $40 a month. There are university professors who make much less -- less, in fact, than their students' grants. But compared to a taxi driver in St. Petersburg, I am a pauper."
Endemic in the Hermitage, now and since 1917, is a problem that is none the less damaging for being invisible to the casual visitor. A great museum should be a bastion of scholarship. Scholarship thrives on the freedom to travel, on direct access to works of art. Archival research and face-to-face collegial exchanges are also all-important.
In the Hermitage, as in every other Russian museum, it was a fact of life throughout the Soviet years that the more a staff member knew about the art of any foreign country, the more unlikely it was that he or she could ever set foot in the country in question.
The head of Japanese art could forget about going to Japan, just as the head of Dutch painting could say goodbye to the idea of seeing Rembrandt in Amsterdam. If, exceptionally, it was essential for a specialist in Cezanne to accompany a major loan to Paris, he was booked on the next available flight back to Leningrad (and God help him if he missed it).
In recent years, this policy has been cautiously relaxed -- above all, since the Hermitage has begun to make big money in hard currency by charging for lending its Matisses and Picassos to exhibitions in the West. Invitations from American museums and universities are no longer routinely turned down. But permission to travel remains a privilege, rather than a right, and a privilege that can always be withheld.
There is at this moment an exhibition at the Folkwang Museum in Essen, Germany, that shows exactly how much good may come from collegial contacts with the West. Entitled "Morozov and Shchukin -- the Russian Collectors," it provides the richest and the best-documented account yet made available of two great pioneer collectors. (What they bought before 1914 was as indispensable to "Henri Matisse" at the Museum of Modern Art in 1992 as it was to "Pablo Picasso" in the same museum in 1980.)
Everything about the Essen show is just right. Karl Ernst Osthaus, who founded what is now the Folkwang in 1902, went to Russia in 1913 and was bowled over by the collections of Shchukin and Morozov. He would have appreciated the care with which 120 paintings from those collections have been set out and catalogued. Russian and German scholars have worked as one to document both the Russian art world in which the collections were made and the pre-1914 Germany in which they caused a sympathetic stir.
A young curator at the Hermitage said the other day that without joint undertakings of this sort, and without the intellectual energies they release, the Hermitage could turn in time into a mere holding operation -- a second-rate museum, in short, in which new ideas had no place.
In this matter, as in all others, the future of the Hermitage is tied to the political and economic future of Russia. But if all goes reasonably well in our flagrantly unreasonable times, the cosmopolitan, one-world, self-reliant ethos of Mr. Piotrovsky's regime will put the Hermitage where it belongs -- as a free and equal partner in the international community of major museums. It will not happen tomorrow. "But," said Mr. Piotrovsky recently, "just give us 15 years."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Visitors at the Hermitage in St. Petersburg - Major art in an architectural wonderland (Alex Orloff for The New York Times) (pg. 1); The Winter Palace, above, on the Neva River--Colossal profusion.; "Portrait of the Artist's Wife," by Matisse, left--Loans are a source of big money in hard currency.; The Pavilion Room in the Winter Palace--The mosaic was copied in Rome by Russian craftsmen. (Alex Orloff for The New York Times) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

COMPANY: HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG) COCA-COLA CO (53%); ELF AQUITAINE SA (51%); BRITISH MUSEUM (57%); BRITISH MUSEUM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG) BRITISH MUSEUM (57%); BRITISH MUSEUM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); 

PERSON: RUSSELL, JOHN; PIOTROVSKY, MIKHAIL BORIS YELTSIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



207 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 3134 words

HEADLINE: The Trials of Ownership in a Recession

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
BETH DIVNEY always believed that owning a home was sound advice. And, until recently, such wisdom seemed infallible. After all, home prices in most places hadn't declined since the Great Depression.
For much of the 70's and 80's appraisals soared in most areas, impelled by a demographic bulge of baby boomers buying their first houses, lenient lending practices, tax incentives and the aggressive marketing of co-ops and condominiums. 
 But now Ms. Divney is one of tens of thousands of recent home buyers, many of them young professionals, who own homes that have declined in value, often to the point that the home is worth less than the outstanding mortgage, a condition known as negative equity, which some bankers refer to as being "under water."
With little hope of selling at a profit or even refinancing to lower their monthly mortgage payments, the only options for these homeowners, many of whom have outgrown their homes, are taking a substantial loss; staying put and paying down their mortgage until it is at least smaller than the home's appraised value; renting out their home and risking not covering their mortgage, or walking away and damaging their credit.
Brokers have a name for these home buyers, who are drowning in debt. They call them Nebbies -- negative equity baby boomers.
In Ms. Divney's case, with an $11,000 down payment, she bought a co-op in Forest Hills, Queens, that is now worth half of the $110,000 she paid in 1987. Even if she finds a buyer willing to pay $55,000, she would have to pay her bank about $35,000 to satisfy the mortgage; she has already paid $9,000 on her mortgage.
"I'm hoping there will be a miracle, perhaps there will be some sort of semi-recovery in the market," she said. "Almost everyone I know tells me I should let the bank foreclose and take it back."
Instead, Ms. Divney, who is a mortgage broker, rents the apartment and each month pays the $550 difference between the $750 in rent she collects and the combination of her $905 mortgage and $422 monthly maintenance costs. She also pays $1,200 a month in rent for her apartment in the Murray Hill section of Manhattan.
"I didn't expect to make a fortune," she said. "But now I have learned that you only buy things that you want to live in and you are committed to."
No one knows the precise number of Nebbies -- the term coined in 1991 by Sherman Whipple, a demographer and market strategist in Hingham, Mass. Lenders rarely reappraise property if payments are being made. And changes in appraisal prices can vary wildly within the same sampling areas.
For example, Mr. Whipple noted that in parts of New York in 1990 the value of some apartments declined by as much as 30 percent, while others did not change.
SEVERAL studies, though, help gauge the extent of negative equity. They also show how the situation is compounded by the rising use of second mortgages and home equity lines of credit.
Mr. Whipple's 1991 study, for example, found that about 53 percent of 1,000 homeowners he surveyed in southeastern New England had a negative net worth, chiefly because of a rising amount of installment debt and a loss of home equity spent when they took out second mortgages and home equity loans. His sample group consisted of homeowners who were 35 to 54 years old held professional or managerial positions and had incomes averaging $55,000 (and a median income of $70,000)
"Falling appraisals aggravated the situation," Mr. Whipple said.
He said his survey sample also represented 16 percent of the region's work force, suggesting that at least 8 percent of the total work force in southeastern New England had a negative net worth.
"What we have are people who have cashed out of the American Dream long before they reach retirement and are about to have to pay college costs," Mr. Whipple said. "They are not building an estate."
A study by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, found 12 percent of the borrowers in its portfolio did not have enough equity in their homes to be able to refinance. The study did not separate those homeowners with zero or negative equity from those who had positive equity, but in amounts too small for refinancing.
"There are a lot of people out there who don't even know they have negative equity," Ms. Divney said. "They say they owe $135,000 on their mortgage, and their home is worth about $135,000. They don't understand that a bank won't refinance at 100 percent."
Generally, banks will refinance only if the would-be borrower has a loan-to-value ratio of no higher than 75 or 80 percent, though in some rare instances mortgages are refinanced when the outstanding balance is equal to 90 or 95 percent of the appraised value for the home -- if the borrower does not intend to withdraw cash from the deal.
"Just a few years ago, people thought that real estate was the key to achieving their financial objectives," said Ellen Feldschreiber, a broker with the Manhattan Mortgage Company. "Now, these same people have lost control of their financial future because of the real estate they purchased."
Another home equity study, by Jonathan E. Gray, a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, an investment research and management company in Manhattan, found that 5 to 8 percent of the homeowners in California in 1991 had negative or zero home equity, excluding additional debt accumulated by second mortgages or home equity lines of credit.
Mr. Gray said that the figures for the Northeast were probably about the same. He explained that even though the price declines might have been sharper in the Northeast, the average down payment was higher, about 30 percent, compared with 10 to 20 percent on other parts of the country.
He also speculated that the percentage of negative home equity home had increased in the last two years.
"It has worsened," he said. "In many markets in the Northeast, you're talking 8 to 10 percent negative or zero equity."
Bankers believe that much of the negative equity has been accumulated in costly properties bought at the height of the real estate boom in the mid-to-late 80's, as well as in homes of all price ranges in areas that have been unusually hard hit by layoffs, like southeastern Connecticut, site of the Electric Boat submarine shipyard in Groton, or Westchester County and the Hudson Valley, where many I.B.M. and General Motors Corporation employees live and work.
One sector of the real estate market suffering from a high level of negative equity is the suburban condominium, since many were built and sold as second homes and investment properties with the help of passive-loss tax incentives that ended with the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
Another is the co-op market, which has been depressed because of high monthly maintenance charges and highly publicized problems with the underlying mortgages of many buildings, particularly those that were converted to co-ops in the 1980's.
Less affected is the market for suburban detached one-family homes. "We're seeing people who are disappointed that they bought for a certain price, and they may be seeing numbers now that are still the same price," said Gregory A. Samp, president of the Empire State Mortgage Bankers Association and president of Simbly Mortgage Corporation in Rochester. "And people who invested money into the property are probably more disappointed."
Emile Wiesenfeld, a vice president at GFC Mortgage Bankers in Manhattan, is one of those whose real estate investment has, at least so far, fallen short of his expectations but is far from being a financial catastrophe.
In 1989, he and his wife, Sima, a teacher, put $40,000 down for a one-family, three-bedroom colonial in Passaic Park, N.J., priced at $180,000. His monthly mortgage payments are about $1,000. He figured he still owes about $135,000 on his mortgage. Unfortunately, if he had to sell his home, he estimated he would be able to get only about $165,000. He is also unable to refinance his mortgage because his loan-to-value ratio, while not putting him in a negative-equity situation, is a shade over 80 percent. (When his mortgage is paid down to $132,000 he will have an 80 percent loan-to-value ratio.)
MORE troubling is that if Mr. Wiesenfeld, who is 34, sold his home today for $165,000, he would pocket about $30,000 after paying off the mortgage. That is $10,000 less than his down payment. "Your parents always tell you, 'Buy a house, it only goes up in value, it's like saving money,' " he said. "Well in my case, it has been just the opposite."
"Recently, we had twins, we are looking to trade up," he added. "This leaves us in a very difficult position. I pray things will turn around and we will be able to sell. And if we do, I prefer to rent now, but my wife doesn't like the idea."
David L. Wagner, a 40-year-old lawyer, has a bigger problem: his 800-square-foot, one-bedroom apartment on 106th Street and Riverside Drive in Manhattan. He bought the co-op apartment with 10 percent down in March 1987 for $175,000, and the monthly maintenance charge has increased from $550 to $680. His adjustable mortgage payments started at $1,300 a month, rose to $1,500 and are now about $1,100. He currently owes about $150,000 on his mortgage.
When he considered refinancing last year he discovered that the appraised value of his apartment was now about $120,000. He estimated that if the price had merely stayed the same over the last six years he would have about $25,000 equity. Instead, he figures he has $30,000 in negative equity.
"It was accepted wisdom at the time that if you calculated the tax benefit and looked at what rent would cost you, you would come out ahead if you bought," he said. "I never considered that my capital would decrease -- just that it wouldn't increase the way it had been. In fact, if someone had said that seven years or six years from now your apartment would be worth only 60 percent of what you're buying it for I would have discounted that advice."
Mr. Wagner's negative equity is growing, too, as he has rented out the apartment and is enduring a negative cash flow of about $700 a month.
"I had contemplated a number of possibilities," he said. "One was to pay down the mortgage, and I briefly contemplated selling it, and advertised -- to no avail."
He should feel somewhat lucky, though, because at least he is able to rent out the apartment. Many co-ops do not allow subtenants. His co-op allows renting for one year and, for hardship cases, a second year. "Unless the market makes a dramatic turnaround I will be looking at the same situation next year and will try and sublet," he said. "The hardship I will have to show is that I will take a beating if I have to sell it."
Mr. Wagner, who recently bought a second apartment with his wife, Elizabeth, a social worker, and their two children, Ben and Caley, is fully aware that he cannot continue to accumulate negative equity indefinitely.
"I HAVE to be thinking about the ultimate sale price," he said. "The market has to recover at $8,000 a year for me or this doesn't make any sense."
Options are indeed few for Nebbies. "There really is not much that can be done," said Mr. Samp, the mortgage-banking executive. "You just have to wait it out, or you walk away and put quite a credit blotch on your record."
Some creative survival strategies are being suggested by brokers and bankers, though. For example, Carolyn Schlam, director of marketing and sales for Dynamic Realty in Manhattan, urged homeowners with negative equity to considering selling at a loss and buying another distressed property. "The real estate market tends to be cyclical and how well sellers do depends on when they got on the merry-go-round and when they chose or were forced to jump off," she said.
Though selling at a loss and buying again would require that homeowners dismiss the old saw, "Once burned, twice shy," Ms. Schlam said that today's distressed market prices and lower interest rates meant being able to buy larger apartments for less money. She pointed out that $100,000 borrowed in 1987 at 10 percent interest cost about $915 a month today. The same $915 is the payment on a $130,000 mortgage at the 7.5 percent fixed rate available today.
Ms. Schlam also said that, for those who were patient, the gains made from the eventual sale of newly bought homes might offset the losses of properties bought since the late 80's and the the early 90's.
Another option, Ms. Schlam said, may be renting out homes with negative equity, and, if it is impossible to charge enough to cover mortgage and maintenance expenses, renting a cheaper apartment to lessen monthly expenses.
For restrictive co-ops, owners can ask for a special hardship permission. She said that many co-op boards that had traditionally taken a dim view of subletting had been forced by market conditions and angry tenants to become more lenient.
"We suggest looking at real estate as a long-term investment to avoid disappointment," Ms. Schlam said. "There is no guarantee of equity gains when buying property, but buyers who are flexible have the best chance for rewards."
To be sure, many homeowners have filed for bankruptcy protection or walked away from their negative equity to cut what seems to be, and very well may be, losses that increase each month. Either course of action, though, means that it would be very difficult, but not impossible, to get credit of any kind for five to seven years, and possibly longer.
Further, simply walking away does not necessarily resolve the situation. The bank can sue for the difference between the amount it is owed and the amount the home is sold for at a foreclosure auction, plus legal expenses and fees. (This cannot occur with mortgages that are "nonrecourse," which means that the bank cannot sue you for the difference. Very few mortgages, however, are nonrecourse.)
Moreover, there may be Federal tax consequences. Specifically, if the bank forgave the amount it was owed on the defaulted loan, then the amount might be deemed taxable income, particularly if any of the amount was considered loan principal.
Some brokers and bankers also suggest paying down a mortgage to pay off principal faster, usually by adding $25 to $100 each month to the payments and noting in a letter that the additional amount is for reducing principal rather than paying part of the next month's bill. Paying down a mortgage faster, which makes the most sense during a low-inflation period, increases home equity, eventually making refinancing possible, if not selling at a profit or breaking even.
Of course, paying down a mortgage may not help if the property is still declining in value or if there is no appreciation. It also requires that homeowners place a larger share of total net worth in a dwelling, which may be risky. The additional money may also be put to better use paying off high-interest nondeductible consumer debt.
FOR those who want to refinance but are unable to because they have negative equity in their homes, Ms. Schlam recommended pointing out to the loan officer how a foreclosure might become necessary. Banks, she said, are often willing to work with borrowers to prevent this from happening.
Mr. Samp, the mortgage banker, also noted that a few homeowners with small loans in rural areas may be able to refinance under a Farmers Home Administration program if their loan-to-value ratios are higher than the traditional limit of 75 or 80 percent -- but not if they are above 100 percent or in a negative equity position. The program can be used, though, only to reduce monthly payments, not to obtain cash.
Some brokers suggest that homeowners desperately seeking to refinance should get a second or a third or even a fourth appraisal; co-op appraisals are particularly prone to challenges because the sales of such units are not publicly recorded. Homeowners can also try to borrow the amount needed to bring the mortgage's loan-to-value ratio to the 80 percent level.
Mr. Samp added that an inability to refinance because of low appraisals might be one of the biggest frustrations to homeowners with negative equity. Even bankers concede that this makes a bad situation worse.
"There is nothing more illogical to us that having someone who has been successfully paying us on a regular basis and tell them that we can't give them lower payments because they property has declined in value or their job status has changed," he said. "It is a shame that persons that have a track record still not be able to get a loan."
Mr. Samp blamed the secondary mortgage market, in particular the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac. "They haven't really recognized that it is a viable alternative because of concerns of investors," he said.
Steven Curto, a vice president of sales and marketing with GFC Mortgage Bankers in Manhattan, said that the situation for Nebbies is unlikely to improve until Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac relax lending guidelines.
"Nebbies are caught in a squeeze because of the faltering economy," he said, adding:
"REFINANCING would reduce the burden, but in many cases Nebbies are unable to refinance because the loan to value ratio has dropped and many suffer from damaged credit as a result of debt delinquencies.
"The greatest irony is that lenders would be better off if people who are now paying 10 percent or 11 percent interest could qualify for refinancing to reduce their payments."
An option to some who are unable to refinance might be to seek out the scant amount of financing available through what are called emerging money sources -- privately raised pools of institutional funds that will lend outside of Fannie Mae guidelines.
Mr. Curto said that homeowners seeking out these sources should inquire about them with mortgage brokers. "These emerging money sources will be especially helpful for people whose credit was damaged as a result of unemployment," he said. "With a slight increase in interest, these Nebbies will be able to obtain loans despite their credit delinquencies."
For many homeowners with negative equity, though, these options are not practicable. And they will become examples of the new investment wisdom being spread by bankers and real estate brokers these days: a house is not an investment -- it is your home.
"When you purchase a home, you should be evaluating what you are willing to pay for where you want to live," said Patricia Niemas, president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of New York, a trade association. "You do not gain or lose money until you decide to sell.
"Unfortunately, purchasing a home in recent years has been positioned as a short-term investment," she added. "And this is not so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beth Divney and daughter, Liz, in their Manhattan rental. (Philip Greenberg/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Drawing (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (74%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



208 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 10; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: YOUNG RUSSIA'S DEFIANT DECADENCE

 BODY:
Andrew Solomon's article "Young Russia's Defiant Decadence" (July 18) brought to mind haunting scenes from the movie "Cabaret," set in Berlin during the 1920's. There, too, artistic expression ran wild, after the end of the repressive militarism of Imperial Germany in the First World War. Under the rule of the liberal Weimar Republic, all sorts of innovations flourished in literature and the arts, as Germans experienced a freedom they had never had before. Social life was open to experimentation, traditional values were questioned, even homosexuality was accepted. Yet within a decade, caused by economic problems and a weak commitment to democracy, the freedom of the Weimar Republic gave way to the tyranny of the Third Reich and Hitler's Nazis. 
 Today, while the young innocents in Russia party, the forces of reaction are gathering strength. The internal security apparatchiks are regaining much of their lost power. Boris Yeltsin is ever more compelled to rule by decree. Unless the United States, Japan and the European Community increase financial assistance to Russia, in return for a commitment by the Russians to democratic government, there is a very real danger that the new freedom will give way to the old authoritarianism.
 
JOHN F. MURPHY JR.
Drexel Hill, Pa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LIBERALISM (76%); WORLD WAR I (71%); TRENDS (66%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, JOHN F JR; SOLOMON, ANDREW BORIS YELTSIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



209 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Will Markets Slide as Rich Are Soaked?

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE rich, as Fitzgerald said, are different. These days, they are also a distinctly unpopular group in Washington. The Clinton Administration and the Democratic Congress appear to be serious about taking money from them in the tax bill.
The issue of justice aside, that could have interesting economic effects. For while the rich -- surprise -- spend more than the poor, it is in saving that they really are the dominant group. And it is savings that become investments and propel stock and bond prices ever higher. 
 Susan Sterne, an economist who monitors spending by rich and poor alike, figures that in 1991 the top fifth in income were responsible for 37 percent of consumer spending, a figure that is up slightly from what it was a couple of decades ago. Your family needed income of about $80,000 to make that group, by the way, far less than the amount needed to be badly hurt by this tax bill.
It is reasonable to conclude that the top part of that group will be in a position to spend less when President Clinton gets his way on taxes. That ought to be a drag on the economy, but many in that group can, if they choose, cut savings instead.
Ms. Sterne, who runs Economic Analysis Associates in Stowe, Vt., calculates that the top quintile of income was responsible for 136 percent of net savings. No, that is not a typo. People with lower incomes, on average, don't save. They either draw down savings, as with most retired people, or they borrow.
Higher taxes on the people who make investments clearly will not help to push up the value of those investments. And there are niggling little features designed to make it more likely that those unfortunate enough to rack up big capital losses will never find a way to get tax benefits from those losses, another negative for investment. But all that may be offset by the fact the Clinton bill keeps the capital gains tax rate at 28 percent. That makes stocks seem even more attractive than bonds, because taxes will take more of the low interest on bonds.
Just now, there is no sign that the rich are especially troubled by the tax bill. Certainly there has been no indication that such people have begun to dump stocks and bonds to pay for the retroactive taxes.
Nor are the rich cutting back on spending. Consumer spending has done surprisingly well this year, and the picture is even better for some high-ticket items. Last week Jaguar reported that its July sales in the United States were up 137 percent from the previous July. Mercedes was up 45 percent and while BMW could post only a 9 percent gain, it happily noted that last month was its best July since 1987. Maybe the buyers think they can outrace the I.R.S.
Still, it is obvious that this bill will cut the disposable income of the rich. On the margin, they will either spend less, reducing economic growth from its already tepid pace, or they will invest less, a decision that would not help the stock market. But then, nobody said deficit reduction would be painless.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 20.96 to 3,560.43," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, July 30-August 6, 1993; "The Rich Save a Lot," shows share of net savings by income group, for 1991; "Luxury Cars Are Hot," shows year-over-year percentage gain in cars sold in U.S. (July and year to date) for BMW, Mercedes Benz and Jaguar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ASSOCIATES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; STOCKS AND BONDS; SAVINGS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BONDS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



210 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
The New Activism at Fidelity

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson

 BODY:
FIDELITY Investment's quiet role in arousing discontent with Kay R. Whitmore, ousted as Eastman Kodak's chief executive last week, is only the latest evidence that the nation's largest shareholder wants more might for its money. Over recent years, Fidelity has argued for overhauls at several of the nation's largest companies, and has most recently turned its attention to executive pay.
While some other fund groups are raising their voices, most express discontent by selling. But at Fidelity, the inspiration for corporate activism comes straight from the top. Edward C. Johnson 3d, the chairman and chief executive of the FMR Corporation, the mutual fund group's parent, has been forceful in his rare public comments. "For too long, institutions have failed to act as long-term owners of the equity they hold," he wrote in the Harvard Business Review a few years ago. "They have failed to use their influence as shareholders." 
 He called for tougher, more independent boards and a loosening of Federal restrictions on the ability of institutional investors to confer, a goal achieved last year.
Fidelity's stake in these issues is huge. With $95 billion of common stocks in its mutual funds and other accounts, Fidelity has holdings more than three times as great as those of Calpers, the huge California state pension fund. Since Fidelity, unlike Calpers, seldom airs its grievances, details usually come from other sources.
At Kodak, Fidelity was apparently betting heavily on the success of Christopher J. Steffen, a turnaround expert Mr. Whitmore hired as chief financial officer in January. The firm bought 6.5 million shares for at least $250 million in the first quarter of 1993 to become the largest institutional shareholder, according to the Bloomberg data service.
Mr. Steffen's resignation at the end of April, in frustration over Mr. Whitmore's pace, brought investor protests. By the time a Fidelity fund manager attacked Mr. Whitmore face-to-face in mid-July, the board was determined to seek his retirement. Unlike the pension funds that represent employees, Fidelity felt free to demand drastic layoffs. Fidelity's standard comment: it only offers advice.
At several other companies in recent years, Fidelity has sought to improve shareholder payoffs. At Allegis, now UAL, Fidelity backed the sale of car-rental and hotel operations. At USX, Fidelity apparently sided with Carl Icahn in pressuring the company to split off its energy interests.
Chief executives now regularly visit Fidelity offices, in Boston, or welcome visitors to seek the firm's support. Edward A. Brennan of Sears, whose investor relations were once frosty, wins Fidelity's praise for reorienting his company and staying in touch.
Fidelity has led institutional investors in turning the proxy ballot into a more easily used weapon. Under Mr. Johnson's direction, Fidelity joined with a company now owned by Automatic Data Processing to provide electronic proxy voting. The Proxy Edge system supplies background information, provides reports summarizing an investor's votes and confirms that a company has received the electronic ballot.
The system has allowed Fidelity to coordinate its voting on thousands of proxies each year. This year, Fidelity has sent about 100 companies letters opposing pay plans that fail to prod management to pursue the stockholders' best interests. The firm has found fault with huge stock incentives that would significantly dilute the holdings of other investors, and with stock options swapped or repriced to protect executives from a declining share price.
The Advanced Micro Devices plan appears to have come in for Fidelity's scorn. There, six repricings that followed the stock's decline through the 1980's have helped top executives reap millions, according to Graef S. Crystal, an analyst of executive pay.
Two Advanced Micro executives say they have heard no complaints from Fidelity, its largest institutional holder as of March with 12.7 million shares, or 14 percent of this computer chip-maker's stock. Told of their remarks, Robert C. Pozen, FMR's general counsel, made a rare exception to Fidelity's unwillingness to speak of specific companies.
"We generally are against repricing of options unless there is a compelling case," said Mr. Pozen. "I'm not sure that company has compelling arguments."
Fidelity executives have been in regular touch with the leading theorists of corporate activism, though often from a discrete distance. Robert A.G. Monks said that Fidelity was one of his first clients almost 10 years ago when he founded Instituational Shareholder Services to provide proxy advice.
Fidelity's most direct involvement to date has come outside its stock funds. Fidelity's Capital and Income Fund has been buying bonds of Macy's, Resorts International and several other bankrupt concerns, taking part in their reorganization. The Kelso Management Company, separate and legally distinct from the mutual funds but backed in part by money Fidelity raised, has specialized in boardroom warfare. But Fidelity says that Kelso's activities in no way represent its, or Mr. Johnson's, philosophy.
Acting behind the scenes, instead of publicly brawling, is the most effective approach, the company says. Mr. Monks is among those who say that Fidelity wants to preserve its friendly public image and its lucrative management of corporate pension fund investments. ( "A very unfair point," Mr. Pozen said. "It's not true.")
Mr. Monks, who has known Ned Johnson since their days at Harvard College, said that Fidelity's leader is torn between his commitment to investor rights and his goal of building a premier financial institution. "Ned for Ned makes me look like a pale devotee of shareholder involvement," Mr. Monks said. "Ned for Fidelity is homus economicus." But with each year, Mr. Johnson's two sides come closer to being one.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward C. Johnson of FMR (John Neubauer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (54%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO; FIDELITY INVESTMENTS GROUP; FMR CORP FMR CORP (94%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO; FIDELITY INVESTMENTS GROUP; FMR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%); BOSTON, MA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; CORPORATIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); RESIGNATIONS (85%); COMMON STOCK (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMORE, KAY R; JOHNSON, EDWARD C; MYERSON, ALLEN R EDWARD C JOHNSON III (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



211 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2923 words

HEADLINE: A.T.&T. Reaches Out (And Grabs Everyone)

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: BASKING RIDGE, N.J.

 BODY:
FROM a converted barn in the middle of nowhere north of Fresno, Calif., an entrepreneurial spirit named Kenneth Williams runs a computer network that allows personal-computer users anywhere in the country to come together over ordinary phone lines to engage in games like chess, bridge and backgammon, or to chat electronically.
The network fascinated David Neylon, manager of new business development for A.T.&T.'s consumer products group. Here was a primitive version of a "cyberspace theme park," an electronic funhouse that could ultimately offer all kinds of video games, gossip networks, lonelyhearts clubs and shopping catalogues. It could be entertaining, like TV; easy, like a telephone, perhaps even addictive, like video games. What more could a company selling long-distance service want? 
 Less than two weeks ago, after more than a year of talks, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company announced that it had acquired a 20 percent stake in the Oakhurst, Calif., venture, called Sierra Network. Within months, A.T.&T. executives say, the network will offer selections from the immense video-game library of Sega Enterprises, the Japanese giant with which A.T.&T. has formed a separate alliance.
The Sierra and Sega deals, and others like them, epitomize how A.T.&T. has transformed itself from a company that did everything itself to one that looks far beyond its own walls. To a degree unthinkable even five years ago, the one-time telephone monolith is reaching out to unlikely places for technology, customers and, not least, top managers.
In the process, A.T.&T. has ensconced itself in almost every corner of the communications business as it advances toward its vision of instantly linking people everywhere to each other and to any kind of information.
The vision includes cellular phones that can be reached anywhere in the country by dialing the same phone number; wireless handheld computers that retrieve files from offices thousands of miles away; "smart" messages that will hunt for a person at the office, at home or on a portable pager; high-speed computer networks that link corporate offices around the world, and "interactive multimedia" services that transform the television from a passive device to an instrument for playing video games, browsing in electronic libraries, ordering merchandise, summoning movies and much more.
Many in the communications industry praise the company for positioning itself well with decisive moves in a fast-changing marketplace. What is more, after years of bruising competition in its core long-distance business, A.T.&T. has stopped its loss of market share and even raised prices, increasing its profitability. (By some estimates, 65 percent of A.T.&T.'s revenues and 85 percent of profits come from long-distance.)
In the first six months of this year, A.T.&T.'s earnings (excluding accounting charges) climbed 10 percent to $2.04 billion, on revenue of $32.03 billion. Not surprisingly, the company has been a hit with investors. It hit a record $65 a share on July 21 and closed Friday at $62, up 19 percent this year.
Yet for all its size and scope, A.T.&T. still has its weaknesses. The biggest may be in the rapidly developing market of interactive multimedia services, a field where cable television companies like Tele-Communications Inc. and Time Warner seem to be in charge. The new alliance between Time Warner and U.S. West, the Denver-based regional Bell company, could form the core of a high-powered national network that delivers a mind-boggling array of entertainment and telecommunications services to the home.
If these powerhouses choose the networks and technology of other companies, A.T.&T. could wind up as little more than just another supplier in a potentially huge emerging business. That has happened to I.B.M., and A.T.&T. is keenly aware of it.
Also, because A.T.&T. is a long-distance company, it needs either local telephone companies or, increasingly, cable companies to deliver its services to customers. Again, then, its destiny is not in its own hands.
Likewise, A.T.&T. must wrestle in wireless communications with high-powered players like the regional Bell companies, and many new competitors are expected.
And in the global marketplace, A.T.&T. faces a handful of emerging gigantic consortiums, such as the newly formed alliance between British Telecommunications and MCI Communications.
For all its efforts to reach out for partners, A.T.&T. has made it clear that it still wants to play tough, even to dominate. It has wielded control in several key partnerships. It has proven willing to use tough marketing tactics and legal challenges to fend off rivals like MCI. And it has raised hackles with its own offspring, the regional Bell companies, by challenging their position in the local phone markets while fighting fiercely to keep them out of long-distance.
"They're big, they're tough, they're experienced, and they like to control," said James G. Cullen, president of the Bell Atlantic Corporation, who worries that A.T.&T. will cut deeply into his own local-service territory and who wants access to the long-distance business. "We could lose body parts over this. Given their size, this is a long-term threat not only to us but to customers in the markets we see evolving."
 
The Golden Days
 In the old monopolistic Bell System, A.T.&T. controlled the national telecommunications network from the inside out, dictating details down to the shape and color of a telephone. These days, when no company can corner the market on innovation, A.T.&T. must seek to shape the network by working from the outside in. So it is forging alliances, even while seeking control.
A.T.&T. has now digested the NCR Corporation, the computer company it swallowed two years ago for $7.5 billion. A.T.&T. is expected to sign within a few weeks a final agreement to pay $3.8 billion for one-third of McCaw Cellular Communications, a deal that will go a long way toward merging the world's biggest long-distance carrier with the largest and arguably most visionary provider of wireless phone service.
It has also bought its way into hot new markets by investing in companies like Sierra. Its portfolio now includes a 50 percent stake in EO Inc., which has invented a hybrid handheld device that acts like a computer and a telephone; General Magic Inc., which has developed software for advanced messaging systems, and the 3DO Company, which is introducing acompact-disk player that mixes video, text and voice.
By all accounts, A.T.&T. is still on the prowl. It wants to team up with foreign telephone companies, to build its international business. It wants to hook up with big cable television companies, which are upgrading their networks to provide hundreds of television channels and two-way communications services. A.T.&T. would like to provide the nationwide network that links the local cable systems and would also like to use the cable systems as a lower-cost alternative to the local phone companies in reaching its customers.
Underlying everything A.T.&T. does is a conviction that its network is its crown jewel, more important than equipment-manufacturing or any of its other businesses. "Everything we are doing is designed to put more traffic on our network, to enhance the value of our network," said Robert E. Allen, chairman and chief executive, at A.T.&T.'s main campus in this central New Jersey community.
In its five years under Mr. Allen, A.T.&T. has arrived at something of a turning point. For the first time since the Bell System was broken up almost 10 years ago, A.T.&T. is not fighting a rearguard battle to prevent losses in market share to rivals like MCI and Sprint. The long-distance market has matured into what some would call an oligopoly, and price slashing has given way to fatter profit margins for everybody. There is more money and more management time to spend on the future.
A.T.&T. has also finally adjusted to losing its captive market -- the local Bell companies -- for central-office switches, transmission equipment and the like. After losing market share and profits to the likes of Northern Telecom and Ericsson, the equipment business has cut its costs, raised sales overseas and become more adept at meeting the needs of big customers. The business is once again profitable and growing.
Under Mr. Allen, A.T.&T. began its first hostile takeover battle, for NCR. Inside A.T.&T., he has cut many of the 140,000 jobs the company has shed since the breakup in 1984, written off billions of dollars in assets to clear the way for modernizing the network, and reorganized the business units by making them more independent and more accountable for their individual financial performance. And where the old Bell System rewarded "lifers" who slowly climbed the corporate ladder, Mr. Allen, who himself rose through the ranks at several local Bell companies that at the time were owned by A.T.&T., has recruited big thinkers from outside the company and given them room to make things happen.
Those executives have shown an appetite for dealmaking but also a determination not to lose control in areas close to the core business. The deal with McCaw demonstrates this.
Under the plan, McCaw can market its services under the A.T.&T. brand name, and the two companies are expected to roll out a family of fancy wireless-phone offerings, also under the A.T.&T. name.
Yet the negotiations leading up to a preliminary agreement last November stretched out for months. Craig McCaw, who controls McCaw through a block of 10-votes-per-share stock, wanted to stay independent while also benefitting from A.T.&T.'s financial strength and marketing power. But A.T.&T. officials didn't want to let McCaw use their brand name unless they had the control to insure standards of service.
In the end, after two years of talks, A.T.&T. got what it wanted -- for a price. In addition to the $3.8 billion for one-third of McCaw's stock, it will pay $100 million for the option to buy Mr. McCaw's right to vote the shares. If A.T.&T. exercises that option -- a move that would raise regulatory questions about whether the company was in effect re-entering the local telephone business -- it will have to pay an additional $600 million.
The McCaw deal has alarmed competitors. MCI executives winced when the agreement was announced, and have since been trying to organize a broad alliance of their own to obtain a nationwide license for new pocket-phone radio frequencies.
But it is the regional Bell companies, fearful that their former parent will try to break into the local market, that are most upset. The Bell companies worry that A.T.&T. will use McCaw to avoid paying access charges to local phone companies. The Bells argue that they should be allowed to enter the long-distance market if A.T.&T. is to muscle its way into their business.
Over time, the baby Bells represent A.T.&T.'s biggest potential competitor, bigger than MCI or Sprint, if they are allowed into the long-distance market. As a result, Mr. Allen and other top A.T.&T. executives are hotly opposed to lifting the prohibition that bars the Bell companies from entering the long-distance market.
Mr. Allen has also been quick to throw up legal barriers to competitors. For example, A.T.&T. fought at the Federal Communications Commission an attempt by British Telecommunications to offer corporate networking services between the United States and Britain. (British Telecom retaliated by buying a stake in MCI and forming a broad-based alliance.)
A.T.&T. also played marketing hardball this year in the battle over toll-free 800-number services, a $7.5 billion market. Not only did the company match MCI blow for blow in a bitter advertising campaign, it also informed corporate customers that agreements with MCI or Sprint might be illegal because those companies had failed to disclose all their rates.
Looking to the future, A.T.&T. has placed heavy bets in six areas that touch just about every hot button in telecommunications:
* Expansion overseas, from manufacturing switching gear in China to providing seamless private networks for multinational companies.
* Wireless services, the exploding field of pocket phones, handheld computers and "mutant" devices that combine the attributes of phones, computers and fax machines.
* Messaging -- electronic mail and sophisticated paging systems.
* Data communications, linking far-flung computer networks.
* Voice-processing technology -- systems that recognize and respond to voice commands.
* Multimedia communications services that allow A.T.&T.'s network to carry text, voice and images -- for interactive television and the like.
 
Goliath and David
 A.T.&T. has proven agile at teaming with pivotal start-ups in many of these fields. Under Robert M. Kavner, now executive vice president and head of the mutimedia group, A.T.&T. has invested (along with companies like Sony and Matsushita) in 3DO, which plans to sell in time for Christmas a compact-disk player for playing interactive video programson home TV sets.
It was also an early investor in EO, which this summer started selling a "personal communicator" that combines a handheld computer that recognizes handwriting, with a telephone. The unit uses a powerful computer chip from A.T.&T. called the Hobbit, as well as an operating system from the GO Corporation, in which A.T.&T. also owns a minority stake.
But the telephone giant's most interesting relationship may well be with General Magic, which was started by former employees of Apple Computer. General Magic, which is also supported by Sony, Matsushita and Motorola, is developing what it hopes will become a communication standard for messages that travel over a patchwork of networks.
The revolutionary idea underlying General Magic is the creation of "smart" messages that navigate through many different networks to find their target at home, at the office or on a pager. A.T.&T. has not disclosed its stake in General Magic, but A.T.&T. officials hope to offer "smart messages" and "smart mailboxes" (which reroute incoming messages) over the Easylink electronic mail network by early next year.
On another front, rumors have been rife in recent months that A.T.&T. was in talks with Apple Computer. People familiar with the talks say Apple's chairman, John Sculley, who has been preaching about the convergence between computing and communications, proposed that A.T.&T. buy Apple. While executives like Mr. Kavner were said to favor the idea, other A.T.&T. officials saw no real value and the talks ended.
Perhaps the hottest speculation centers on a possible deal between A.T.&T. and a major cable television operator like Denver-based Tele-Communications Inc. Such a deal would give A.T.&T. a powerful partner in the multimedia entertainment world, but the most immediate draw is that a cable network could offer A.T.&T. lower access charges than do local telephone companies for linking it to customers.
Top A.T.&T. executives -- and their counterparts at MCI -- readily admit that they are talking to cable companies. But many experts say it remains unclear that a cable giant like Tele-Communications has much to gain from a partnership with A.T.&T. Mr. Allen discounted the rumors of such a deal.
Underlying the frenzy for alliances is a clear sense of uncertainty about the future. No one pretends to know, for example, whether people will flock to Sierra's network video games or will want to read the newspaper on a handheld computer.
"In the final analysis, customers will have a lot of choices, not only in telephones but in access to information services and entertainment," Mr. Allen said. "The great unanswered question is what do people want? What will people use? That's the fuzziest part of it for me."
 
LOOKING OUTSIDE FOR SMARTS
 Robert E. Allen, chairman and chief executive of A.T.&T., has surrounded himself with a cadre of strong-willed and independent executives who came from outside the company, and given them room to run. Among them:
* Alex J. Mandl, executive vice president and head of the core long-distance business, had been chief executive of Sea-Land Service Inc., the shipping company with $3 billion in sales. Mr. Mandl, a gregarious, Austrian-born executive who brims with the confidence of a chief executive, is best known for having negotiated the deal with McCaw, and he has gained enormous influence within the company.
* Robert M. Kavner, once a consultant at Coopers & Lybrand who advised A.T.&T. throughout its breakup, came aboard in 1984 as head of the communications-products group. It was Mr. Kavner, now executive vice president and head of the mutimedia group, who masterminded the takeover of NCR and who has been quarterback for investments into multimedia products. A man who with close ties to Silicon Valley and its venture capitalists, Mr. Kavner has made it possible for A.T.&T. to invest in and guide some of the most closely watched start-up companies at the nexus of computers and communications.
* Jerre L. Stead, formerly chief executive of the Square D Company, the big manufacturer of electrical components. Mr. Stead, who arrived in 1991, was put in charge of A.T.&T.'s loss-plagued office-equipment business and returned it to profitability last year. Mr. Allen named Mr. Stead chief executive of NCR in March and more recently named him an executive vice president of A.T.&T..

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1)
 
Photos: Alex Mandl; Robert Kavner; Jerre Stead (pg. 6)
 
Chart: "A.T.&T. Expands Beyond T.&T.," describes A.T.&.&'s expansion into other areas in communications and telecommunications detailing deals and markets; new areas include wireless voice and data communications, wireless computing devices, electronic mail and enhanced fax and messaging, video-on-demand and on-line entertainment and networked computing (Sources for market estimates: Economic and Management Consultants International; Link Resources; Arlen Communications; International Data Corporation) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA NETWORK; SEGA ENTERPRISES LTD AT&T INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA NETWORK; SEGA ENTERPRISES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FRESNO, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); VIDEO GAMES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; ELECTRONIC MAIL; FACSIMILE SYSTEMS ; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TELEVISION; CABLE TELEVISION; INTERACTIVE (TWO-WAY) TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (70%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (62%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: ;MANDL, ALEX J; KAVNER, ROBERT N; STEAD, JERRE; ANDREWS, EDMUND L KENNETH A WILLIAMS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



212 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1838 words

HEADLINE: Profile: Robert A. Iger;
A Strong Signal to a Man Who May Be King at ABC

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
FEW executives get higher marks for good management than Thomas S. Murphy, chairman, and Daniel B. Burke, chief executive, of Capital Cities/ABC Inc. After building Capital Cities into one of the most profitable television-station companies, they acquired ABC in 1986, integrating the two companies well during a rough period for broadcasting.
If their record has had a flaw, it has been the failure to prepare for succession. Capital Cities/ABC has never had an obvious team of young executives groomed to take over when Mr. Murphy, who is 68, and Mr. Burke, 64, eventually retire. Mr. Burke is already scheduled to retire next February. 
 The company's announcement 10 days ago that Robert A. Iger, a senior vice president, would become executive vice president was a clear signal that Messrs. Murphy and Burke are trying to remedy that problem. The promotion was the third in seven months for Mr. Iger, who is only 42.
Mr. Iger is a logical choice for a company committed to promoting insiders. In the 18 years since he began at ABC, he has shown a keen ability to manage people. And as head of ABC Entertainment, working in Los Angeles between 1989 and 1992, he ran the crucial prime-time programming operations, if not brilliantly, at least well. He closed the ratings gap between second-place ABC and the front-runner, though ABC never took the lead, increased the profitability of prime time despite a difficult economic environment, and enjoyed no major turnover in management.
Mr. Iger had final say on which programs went on the prime-time schedule. In that role, he bet successfully on the comedy "Home Improvement," which has been a hit from the start and finished third in the ratings last season. Also, the low-cost, immensely profitable comedy "America's Funniest Home Videos" made its debut under him.
In a contrarian move at a network chasing younger audiences, Mr. Iger signed the detective series "Matlock" after Fred Silverman, whose company produces the show, learned that NBC had decided to drop the show. Mr. Silverman asked Mr. Iger whether ABC wanted it, and "Bob made the decision within five minutes," Mr. Silverman recalled. "In Hollywood that is very unusual."
Indeed, industry associates say Mr. Iger can make tough decisions quickly, in addition to being affable and approachable.
Mr. Iger also oversaw some big flops. He signed the movie producer George Lucas to do TV sequels to the "Indiana Jones" films. The 22 episodes, almost all of which aired, cost the company $1 million each. Their poor ratings meant they were aired only once and could not recoup that cost in reruns.
ABC also lost money on "Cop Rock," the ill-fated police musical conceived by the producer Steven Bochco.
And it gambled on "Twin Peaks," which garnered publicity more than ratings. But "Twin Peaks" and other programs did signal to two of Mr. Iger's constituencies -- Capital Cities management and Hollywood -- that he was willing to take unorthodox risks.
During his tenure in Hollywood, Mr. Iger also kept the low profile that both Mr. Murphy and Mr. Burke espouse. He rarely grants interviews (he declined to give one for this article). Nor was he seen a great deal around Hollywood high spots, though he had the Los Angeles quota of luxury automobiles -- a BMW and a Porsche. He sold the Porsche after Mr. Burke complained about how uncomfortable it was when Mr. Iger used it to chauffeur him during his trips to the West Coast.
Last January, Mr. Iger was named president of the ABC Television Network Group, which encompasses not only prime time but the entire programming schedule. In March, he was named a senior vice president of the corporation. Now, even with his latest appointment, Mr. Iger is only the frontrunner for the top job. As one longtime Capital Cities/ABC executive put it, "The job is his to lose." The executive noted that Capital Cities/ABC's management views programming as the core of its business, so Mr. Iger's position at ABC Entertainment is a valuable credential.
Insiders expect that Mr. Murphy will continue as chairman for some time. Whereas Mr. Burke has told associates he looks forward to leaving and spending time with the minor-league baseball team he bought, Mr. Murphy thrives on dealing with company issues.
THAT would allow him to work directly with Mr. Iger. Some think the chairman may play an even greater role than he has recently. One question for those watching for signs of a power shift is whether Mr. Iger will be given either of Mr. Burke's titles -- president and chief executive -- after Mr. Burke's departure.
One Wall Street analyst noted that Mr. Iger has had relatively little exposure to some of the corporation's crucial constituencies, including Wall Street.
Another crucial question is whether Mr. Iger, whose experience has been in sports and entertainment operations for the network, will exhibit the vision necessary to run a company that encompasses not only broadcast television but also cable television, publishing and forays into new businesses, including pay-per-view and high-definition television. Capital Cities/ABC owns the ESPN cable sports network and a host of newspapers and magazines, including Women's Wear Daily and Institutional Investor.
But the new businesses are growing in importance as the way entertainment and information is packaged and delivered evolves with dizzying advances in communications and computer technology.
The $5.3 billion company has $1.2 billion in cash, which gives it a lot of flexibility in making strategic investments. "What you don't have now is a dealmaker," said Dennis Leibowitz, who follows the company for Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. "That is why Murphy is important."
Executives like Ted Turner and Rupert Murdoch have benefited handsomely by positioning their companies to take advantage of emerging trends. In recent months, Mr. Iger has met with executives at telephone companies and in Silicon Valley to educate himself.
Mr. Murphy and Mr. Burke may well value careful management more than vision, however. They built their businesses slowly and carefully, sticking to what they knew best -- managing television stations. Not until Mr. Murphy was in his early 60's did he significantly expand Capital Cities.
Since his childhood in Oceanside, L.I., Mr. Iger has always liked television. After he was graduated magna cum laude from Ithaca College with a major in television and radio, he worked a short stint as a television weatherman. It convinced him he would never be more than mediocre, so in 1974 he joined ABC, taking an entry-level job preparing studios for the filming of soap operas and game shows.
Despite his reputation as a "people person," one of his bosses was not happy with him. Mr. Iger moved to ABC Sports as a supervisor for production of sports programs.
A year later, he was manager of program planning for "Wide World of Sports," suggesting events to cover, negotiating for the rights to events like cliff diving and wrist wrestling, and then scheduling the events.
Those events led to jobs in which he made decisions about licensing the right to broadcast sports events, which involved dealing with affiliates and the sales division, among others. Those events ranged from boxing matches to the Olympic Games.
At the 1988 Winter Games in Calgary, the weather proved unusually warm and events had to be rescheduled; that task fell to Mr. Iger. One Capital Cities/ABC executive said Mr. Iger's handling of the problems impressed his superiors.
Later that year, he was tapped to become executive vice president for the television network group. That job put Mr. Iger in charge of business affairs, which included negotiating for prime-time programming. In some cases he also became involved with scheduling. For example, if the news department wanted to do a special on whether the budget would pass, Mr. Iger became the traffic cop, working with news and entertainment to find time for the program.
When management brought in Mr. Iger to replace Brandon Stoddard as president of ABC Entertainment, the move was considered unorthodox. Mr. Iger has said that even he was somewhat surprised by the appointment.
Although Mr. Iger dedicated himself to the endless business of reading scripts, friends say he does not have the obsession with programming that is characteristic of some network heads. "The trick is not to take it too seriously," he has said. Indeed, associates say, since his return to New York he has read relatively few scripts and prefers nonfiction reading, like "We Were Soldiers Once . . . And Young," a book about Vietnam. His hobbies include sailing and cooking. He likes cooking because it allows him to turn out a product himself, something that executives do not really do.
That Mr. Iger was not a zealous programmer may have benefited him in moving up the ladder, because his interest was as much in managing as in raising ratings.
Mr. Iger has told associates, and even mentioned in discussions with Mr. Burke, that he never had as his goal either running the network or its parent company. Mr. Iger is more prone to describe himself as a man of modest goals who wanted to do each job well. In a recent speech at his alma mater, Mr. Iger said he viewed patience as the most important quality in getting ahead. "It keeps you from making mistakes," he has said. "I have seen impatience ruin more careers than anything else."
But beneath that seeming lack of focus on the long term may lie an ardent determination. Today he is clearly aware that he is being considered as the heir to Capital Cities/ ABC. Indeed, after he and his wife separated, he acknowledged to an associate that he had considered the career implications of the split at a company where the chairman and the president boast decades-long marriages and where some have said, only half-jokingly, that divorce can be a liability. (He and his wife have two daughters.)
Times have changed, of course, and both of Mr. Iger's most obvious rivals to run the company -- Stephen A. Weiswasser and David Westin -- are divorced.
Like Mr. Iger, both men were promoted 10 days ago. Mr. Weiswasser was named president of the Capital Cities/ABC Multimedia Group and senior vice president of the corporation. Mr. Westin became a senior vice president and president of production for the network group.
But Mr. Weiswasser, 52, who was executive vice president at ABC News from 1991 to 1993, has had less programming experience, which at least one longtime Capital Cities executive thinks makes him a less likely candidate for the top job.
Television executives think Mr. Westin, who joined the company only two years ago and comes from the legal side, is on the fast track. However, he has had no programming experience.
That means Mr. Iger has at least a strong opportunity. In a succinct analysis, he recently said: "There was a message sent to me that I had the potential. For the record, there is nothing promised or guaranteed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Iger has made his mark as a manager more than as a programmer. (ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CCB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL CITIES/ABC INC ABC INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAPITAL CITIES/ABC INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); FILM (85%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: IGER, ROBERT A; IGER, ROBERT A (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); MURPHY, THOMAS S; BURKE, DANIEL B; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE ROBERT A IGER (93%); GEORGE LUCAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



213 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/July 25-30

BYLINE: By Francis Flaherty

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Climax for the Federal Budget Debate 

The Federal budget bill headed toward resolution late last week. By a 218-216 vote, the House squeaked its approval Thursday night; a sure-to-be-close Senate vote was scheduled for early Saturday morning, after press time for this section. Without major change, the bill would slash $496 billion from the deficit over five years. Military and Medicare spending would be cut, and various taxes would be increased. Selected tax highlights: The gas tax would rise from 14.1 cents a gallon to 18.4 cents. For single persons and couples earning taxable income of, respectively, $115,000 to $250,000 and $140,000 to $250,000, the top income tax rate would rise to 36 percent from 31 percent. Businesses could deduct only 50 percent of meal expenses, instead of the current 80 percent, and the top business tax rate would go from 34 percent to 35 percent for companies earning $10 million or more.
 
More Phone Competition
 
Dial C for competition. Last week, the F.C.C. opened up another part of the $86 billion local telephone market to challengers to the Baby Bells. The agency is allowing the so-called upstarts to compete for some of the $4.2 billion in connection fees that long-distance carriers, like Sprint and MCI, must pay so that their customers can use local lines. Last September, the F.C.C. allowed the upstarts in on another piece of the local action, the $2.5 billion market for "special access" phone lines used by large companies. The two pro-competitive steps are tiny ones in the $86 billion local market, though. Still far away is the day Cliff Robertson and Candice Bergen represent vying local phone companies, much as they now do long-distance ones.

Paper Piles Up in Hospitals
 
It's sure to spike the cost-cutters' blood pressure: Nearly one of every 10 health care dollars pays for nothing more than hospital paperwork. According to a study published last week in The New England Journal of Medicine, $666.2 billion was spent on American health care in 1990. Of that total, $256 billion was spent on hospital care, of which a whopping $63 billion financed hospital administration alone. In contrast to earlier eras, hospitals now have lots of clerks to push these growing stacks of paper. In 1990 hospitals had 1,221,600 administrators, while the average daily patient roster was only 853,000. Why is $1 of every $10 of all health care revenue, or $1 of every $4 of hospital revenue, spent on paper shuffling? Growing record-keeping and billing requirements, say the study's authors.

Fewer Businesses Are Failing
 
There is good economic news these days, but often it's only modestly good. (For instance, construction was up 1.2 percent in June -- but the residential sector was still relatively unresponsive.) And so it's refreshing to get some unqualified good news, such as Dun & Bradstreet's report last week that business failures were down a solid 9.9 percent in the first half of this year from the first half of 1992. The decline, from 50,793 to 45,749, was a broad one involving all industrial sectors. And the drop in the liabilities of failed businesses was sharper still, from $54 billion to $25 billion during the same periods. The final bit of undiluted good news: Big businesses are under-represented in this group of faltering enterprises.

Happy Dilemma for Detroit
 
The smiles faded slightly in Detroit last week, as the big auto makers realized that their collective $2.34 billion profit last quarter has put them in a happy dilemma. On the one hand, to get higher values for their stocks and lower rates on their loans, they want to amplify the success of their second quarter to bankers and investors. On the other hand, they want to downplay that success as they resume their seats at the bargaining table with the U.A.W. in contract negotiations. Appearances can be deceiving, of course, and that's what the Big Three will argue to the union. Despite the recent profits, the companies will say, they can't afford to pay more or reduce the work force less in an age when building autos is increasingly global and nonunion. Of course, the union will have a rejoinder: that the Big Three can't afford a strike just as they start to cash in on growing demand and to retake market share from the Japanese.

Motown Sold, But Not for a Song
 
Motown Records, the legendary black-owned record company whose stars have included Stevie Wonder, Marvin Gaye and Diana Ross and the Supremes, was sold for $301 million to Polygram Records last week. Polygram, based in London and owned mostly by Philips Electronics, the Dutch company, is the world's third-biggest record seller. The deal -- part of a trend in which independent labels are bought by conglomerates -- will not bring Polygram a large stable of current stars. But it does bring Polygram a catalogue of 30,000 classic master recordings, plus all the R-E-S-P-E-C-T the Motown name musters, as Aretha would put it.
 
 
 
COMPANIES

 
Get Yer Ice Cold Ice Beer!
 
It gives new meaning to the term "cold one." Molson, the Canadian brewer, will start selling "ice beer" in the United States this week. So named because it is brewed and filtered at freezing temperatures, ice beer has grabbed an impressive 10 percent of the Canadian beer market since it was introduced there last April by Molson and Labatt. Will it do equally well in its American debut? One factor that might affect sales is the beer's 4.4 percent alcohol content by weight -- the average for beer is 3.6 percent. But Molson plans to ignore that fact in its ads, highlighting instead the brew's "smoothness and distinctive, full-flavored taste," said a spokesman.

Orioles Take First (Sales Div.)
 
If dollars were homers, the Baltimore Orioles would lead their division. The baseball team was auctioned off last week for $173 million, $103 million more than the previous owner paid in 1989 and the most ever paid in this country for a professional sports team. (Second place goes to football's Dallas Cowboys, bought for $140 million in 1989 by an Arkansas businessman.) The auction was forced when the now-former Orioles owner Eli Jacobs went bankrupt from unrelated business reversals. The winning investor group, which includes Tom Clancy, the novelist, and Pam Shriver, the tennis player, deny they paid too much. Indeed, the team is enjoying sellout crowds in its new stadium, Camden Yards, and the Orioles themselves seem to like it: They won three games in a row in the days following the auction.
 
Questions Remain at Guess?
 
Appropriately shrouded in mystery, the top executive at Guess? jeans decided in mid-week to leave the $500 million company and sever all ties to it. Georges Marciano will resign as chief executive, relinquish his seat on the board and sell his $220 million share to his three less-famous brothers, all of whom remain as top Guess? executives. A possible clue to the departure came in succeeding days, though; it turns out Georges wanted to distribute his fashionable pants to mass marketers like Wal-Mart and Sears, while brothers Maurice, Paul and Armand wanted to stick with department stores and their own outlets. There's another mystery, however. The remaining Marcianos will borrow money to buy Georges' stake. But who will lend hundreds of millions to a company whose primary inspiration has just departed?

Nike: Just (Re)Do It
 
Help the environment and help yourself. That may be the motto of the new recycling program at Nike Inc. In stores in Florida and Washington State, the company will collect worn-out sneakers and have them remade into something guaranteed to wear out more sneakers: running tracks and tennis courts. Customers will get $5 to $10 rebates for their old footwear. The program was born two years ago when Nike employees saw old shoes being shoveled into a landfill. Will Nike accept other brands? "We can't accept responsibility for everyone's garbage," said Keith G. Peters, a Nike spokesman, his tongue perhaps in his cheek. "But if you really twist our arm, we will take the Reeboks."
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Week 2: The Franc-Mark Fiasco
 
The week began in disaster and ended in hope. Early on, Europe was panicked by speculators' attacks on the French franc. But as the markets calmed, some saw the solution to the crisis -- allowing most European currencies to float within a wider range than previously allowed under the European Exchange Rate Mechanism -- as a blessing in disguise. Three of the optimistic theories: First, the freer play in currency will produce lower interest rates in Europe, thus helping revive the recession-bound economies of France, Italy and elsewhere. Second, a revived Europe means more demand there for imported goods -- a boon for the United States. And third, reduced European interest rates mean a stronger dollar, which helps American consumers of wine and other European exports.

Extra Innings for Steel Tariffs
 
It ain't over 'til it's over. So reason America's steelmakers, who began a broad campaign last week to reverse recent tariff rulings. Citing a slump in their stocks following the decisions, a dozen steel companies petitioned the International Trade Commission to rehear the tariff cases; the request is the first ever in the commission's 77-year history. Also, 60 members of the House have petitioned President Clinton at the steelmakers' urging, asking him to monitor steel imports for the industry. Big Steel is also asking Congress itself to review the cases and, in New York, industry lawyers are appealing the rulings to the Court of International Trade. Yogi would approve.

Lloyd's Director Resigns
 
The finance director of Lloyd's of London has resigned. David Bruce, in office for only four months, quit to pursue other interests, but the pressing problems of the 300-year-old British insurer remain. Facing $9 billion in losses for the four years from 1988 to 1991 -- the most recent figures available -- Lloyd's has been seeking funds from corporate investors. Standard & Poor's recently hurt that effort, though, by declining to give Lloyd's a specific financial rating.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Supremes, a major Motown sound.; Cal Ripken Jr., costly team's star shortstop (Jim Bourg for The New York Times); David Bruce, late of Lloyd's; Frere Georges; Nike athletic shoes (Nike)
 
Graphs track U.S. hospital administrative personnel compared to average daily patients, 1986 and 1990 (Source: The New England Journal of Medicine)
 
Chart shows taxes paid on selected items by a company earning $10 million, at the top tax rate before and after budget bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HEALTH CARE CENTERS (52%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (86%); HEALTH CARE (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); TELEPHONE RATES (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); FUEL TAX (71%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); WRITERS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



214 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: Making Health Plans Prove Their Worth

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
KATHLEEN ANGEL oversees $200 million a year in medical spending for employees of the Digital Equipment Corporation. But like most benefits executives, she is largely flying blind when it comes to comparing the performances of the slew of health plans used by big companies.
Even the simplest request for information to compare the quality of care, patient satisfaction and cost efficiency, among other things, can produce a harvest of statistical apples and oranges. 
 Last year, for instance, Digital, the second-biggest computer maker in the United States, asked 45 of its 90 health maintenance organizations how many days their respective groups of covered employees had been hospitalized. The answers were of little value, Ms. Angel said, because some were based on claims for payment, some on individuals' medical charts and some on the number of days approved before admission.
"Nothing was comparable, even at a very gross level," Ms. Angel said.
Now, in a ground-breaking attempt to get numbers that could help shape the national debate over medical costs and choices, a group of large employers, including Digital, and big H.M.O.'s is set to introduce a standardized report card system that it has developed for all health plans.
The report cards would allow employers -- and in some cases, employees -- to compare how plans perform in more than 60 categories, or benchmarks, with the data compiled in carefully defined ways. Among other things, participating H.M.O.'s would report the percentage of infants receiving immunization shots and the number of diabetes patients who had an annual eye exam, a recommended procedure. Data on hospital admissions and lengths of stay would be included, as would numbers measuring a plan's financial stability and cost efficiency.
A one-year trial of the report cards is to begin next month. Perhaps a dozen plans will take part, including at least three that have helped develop the standards -- Kaiser Permanente, the Harvard Community Health Plan and Prudential -- along with Blue Cross plans in several states. All four companies that worked on the standards will also be part of the trial. Besides Digital, they are GTE, Xerox and Bull HN Information Systems, a unit of Groupe Bull, the Paris-based computer maker.
 
A National Model?
 If all goes well, the benchmark system could become the model for a national report card, said Ms. Angel and others involved in the project. The project has already been endorsed by 30 managed health care plans with 55 million members, including the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. And as the White House moves closer to unveiling its health care reform package, Administration health advisers and Medicare officials say they are looking with approval at the benchmark program and others like it that have been tried in several states.
A precursor of the pilot program was a collaboration between Xerox and Kaiser, one of the company's main H.M.O.'s. For Xerox, which demands steady improvement in quality from employees and suppliers, the primitive medical statistics traditionally provided by health plans were unacceptable.
"Xerox has long been aggressively committed to basing everything we do on measurement and documentation," said Helen Darling, the health care strategy and programs manager at Xerox. Last summer, she said, Xerox and Kaiser began to develop "meaningful, credible, pertinent, relevant information that everyone can be reasonably proud of and that everyone can use."
For employers, the system will provide a means to insure they are getting their money's worth. They can use the numbers to prod H.M.O.'s to do better and, in extreme cases, to drop the ones that are clearly inferior.
The H.M.O.'s can also use the system to improve care. In addition, the better ones can use the benchmarks as calling cards in the looming era of health reform, where they will have to compete harder for business from giant purchasing alliances. What's more, the system will help the health plans make the right choices as they invest heavily in computer software to deal with a multitude of customer demands for reports on care and costs.
And consumers should benefit, proponents say, by having a tool to make more informed decisions when choosing among plans.
"Women 20 years old, for example, may choose differently if they find a plan had an excellent record in providing early prenatal care, and if the waiting time to see an obstetrician was very small," said Dr. Arnold Epstein, a White House health care adviser who is an internist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
But there could be a bigger payoff, proponents say. Researchers could use the system to help determine which treatments and preventive approaches lead to longer, healthier lives -- and which have little or no effect. The study of so-called medical outcomes is still in its infancy, but offers great potential for emphasizing the things that work and dropping those that do not.
For instance, is the number of visits to a doctor for prenatal care linked to the rate of low birth weights? "Some say 'yes' and some say 'no,' " said Janet M. Corrigan, a vice president of the National Committee for Quality Assurance, a nonprofit H.M.O.-accrediting group based in Washington. "We expect to see those linkages become more well established."
The companies and H.M.O.'s that developed the performance standards were operating under the auspices of the accrediting body. The project also has the support of prominent members of the Washington Business Group on Health, including Bank of America, Chrysler, Ford, General Electric and Hewlett-Packard.
While the benchmark system has drawn support from many large employers and health plans, some physicians and health care experts have reservations.
The benchmarks are "a positive step," said Robert McAfee, a Portland, Me., surgeon who is president-elect of the American Medical Association. But, he added, "there is no simple way to measure quality."
 
Understanding the Numbers
 Critics note the controversies surrounding Medicare reports on hospital mortality rates and the statistics on individual doctors published in recent years in a few states.
Some of the data were subject to misinterpretation, the critics said. A high mortality rate could mean a doctor was incompetent or a hospital had an inept staff. But it could also mean that a doctor or hospital was so good it had attracted the most difficult cases.
For that reason, they say, a report card system could backfire. They argue that some health plans, doctors and hospitals would concentrate on getting a good rating instead of improving care.
There are stories of hospitals that transfer dying patients to long-term-care units to keep their mortality numbers low, and surgeons who refer dangerously ill heart patients to other hospitals for the same reason.
In particular, some experts question the wisdom of giving report cards to consumers, who may have little knowledge of the medical subject matter. "I wonder if we have done enough research on whether patients can handle this kind of information," said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health policy economist at Princeton University.
Added Sheila T. Leatherman, head of policy and evaluation for United Healthcare, an H.M.O. based in Minnetonka, Minn., "The notion of informed consumerism is becoming a central precept in health care reform, but it is largely untested." There is no agreement, she added, about "who should receive the data, in what format and with what kinds of interpretive materials." United Healthcare was one of the six H.M.O.'s in the group that developed the benchmarks. It also included Aetna Health Plans and U.S. Healthcare.
On the other side, Dr. William L. Roper, the former head of the Federal Centers for Disease Control, said that "producing information for beneficiaries is a powerful idea that can't be rolled back."
Dr. Roper, who now heads the Prudential Insurance Company's new health care research center in Atlanta, said consumers should get report cards to help them choose a health plan. As for reports on individual doctors and hospitals, he said, "the plans themselves will need information to make judgments." But he said more study was needed before making those reports public.
Dr. Mark Chassin, the New York state health commissioner, said everyone in health care, from individual physicians to hospitals to H.M.O.'s, would eventually have to "produce data that is useful for quality measurement. It's just a matter of time." The information should be fed back to "people responsible for delivering care," he said, "in a quality improvement context, but not in a punitive way."
White House advisers working on the Clinton health care proposals said they were still debating how far the President should go. Philip R. Lee, Assistant Secretary for Health in the Department of Health and Human Services, said Administration aides want "health plans and systems to have built-in continuous quality improvement."
A number of large H.M.O.'s already have quality improvement systems, he noted. "There is a lot of experimentation that is very helpful in guiding us in the right direction," Dr. Lee said.
But are the benchmarks the right ones? The current measures do not "go far enough in measuring the impact of health care on the function and well being of consumers," said Dr. Paul Ellwood, who heads the Jackson Hole Group, an influential coalition of researchers and industry representatives.
Indeed, the 60 or so benchmarks used in the one-year trial will be refined and expanded as more becomes known about medical outcomes, said Ms. Corrigan of the quality assurance committee. Some measures may be dropped or replaced, she said. "We need an evolutionary process, with revisions every couple of years," she added.
Some benchmarks, including those for the treatment of mental illness and substance abuse, will probably not be released to employers by the health plans because of lingering disagreements over what they mean.
In any event, the companies and H.M.O.'s that helped draft the performance measures plan to install an "external auditing" system to insure the honesty of the reports, Ms. Corrigan said. "If we are going to rely on this information," she added, "we have to be comfortable that the underlying data are reasonably complete and reliable."
The group said it had high hopes that the new measurements would gain national acceptance. "They would fit nicely into a national report card," said Ms. Angel of Digital.
"If we do it right," added Ms. Darling of Xerox, "that data, or perhaps some modified version, would become the set that every health plan in the nation would be reporting to purchasing alliances, which would then report it to the Federal Government."
But Professor Reinhardt urged a gingerly approach. "I salute these people for trying to do this," he said. "But they should apply it the way alligators make love -- very cautiously."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The New Report Cards" -- "Mammography: shows percentage of women over 50 tested within past two years under 6 H.M.O. plans; "Admissions: shows number of people admitted to hospitals, per 1,000 H.M.O. members under 6 H.M.O. plans; "Immunizations": shows percentage of children with up-to-date immunizations, from birth to 24 months, under 6 H.M.O. plans; "Inpatient Days," shows number of days per year H.M.O. members were hospitalized per 1,000 members, under 6 H.M.O. plans. (Source: Xerox Corporation)
 
Chart: "Benchmarks of Care," lists sampling of some of the 60 categories on the new H.M.O. report cards. (Source: National Committe for Quality Assurance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (91%); BULL (PAR) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (63%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (91%); KAISER PERMANENTE (84%); BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (81%); BULL SAS (63%); BULL HN INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BENCHMARKING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); EYE TESTING (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); MEDICARE (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%); DIABETES (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



215 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 36; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: The World Bank Responds

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "World Bank Needs a Wake-Up Call" (Aug. 1), Gary Kleiman argued that the World Bank is assisting nations that no longer need help and neglecting nations that desperately do. Both claims are false. 
 Mr. Kleiman seems to be particularly concerned with our assistance to Latin America. It is true that in most countries in the region, the debt crisis has been resolved -- happily, in a democratic framework. The scars of past mismanagement, however, remain. Latin America continues to be a region of highly unequal distribution of income and economic opportunities. The poorest 20 percent receive only 4 percent of the regional income.
The Latin American countries never forthrightly addressed the issues of human development and poverty. Matters worsened during the 1980's. Government programs in education, health and nutrition were cut back. The serious issues of environmental degradation were barely touched. Infrastructure was not maintained and investments were deferred.
The World Bank has contributed heavily to the reform of the Latin American economies and the resolution of the debt crisis. Since the onset of the debt crisis in 1982, World Bank financing in the region has been $18 billion.
Recognizing that governments in crisis could not meaningfully address longer-term developmental issues such as education, health, the environment and infrastructure, it provided financing to backstop the restructuring of policies and institutions and the reduction of the commercial debt. Now the emphasis has to be on longer-term questions.
The Latin Americans and their financial partners face a serious challenge: how to establish the relevance of the state for the people. It has to be done through the reform and expansion of education, health, urban services, environmental programs, infrastructure, agriculture and capital markets. This is where the World Bank comes in, allotting $13 billion of its resources in the next three years.
In Mexico, the World Bank expects to put up half a billion dollars a year in environmental projects, particularly in the border regions. In Chile, it is supporting a fundamental restructuring, decentralization and expansion of basic education. In Brazil, there are projects to conserve tropical forests, arrest soil erosion and improve the urban environment. In Argentina, there is support for capital market reform and a bond market, essential for the private sector.
Private flows are important and should finance industry and much of the privatized infrastructure. But private funds, often speculative and volatile, are not available on terms suitable for long-term investments in public services. Nor do they bring with them the necessary technical expertise. The World Bank's work complements such funding.
The needs of Eastern Europe are also large and diverse, and money is not the only issue. The World Bank has the financial, technical and managerial capacity to do its part in Eastern Europe without compromising on its role in Latin America and other parts of the developing world.
 
S. SHAHID HUSAIN
Washington, Aug. 4
 
The writer is vice president for Latin America and the Caribbean region at the World Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (65%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (65%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); EROSION (73%); LAND DEGRADATION (73%); BONDS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (69%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); BOND MARKETS (63%); NUTRITION (53%); 

PERSON: KLEIMAN, GARY; HUSAIN, S SHAHID

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



216 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
The New Equality in Hard Times

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
LAST hired, first fired, goes the wisdom about women. By that logic, women should be hit hardest by recessions, and that indeed is what three Bureau of Labor Statistics economists thought they kept reading in news accounts of women's status.
William Goodman, Stephen Antczak and Laura Freeman went back to their files -- comparative male-female data on the five recessions since 1969 -- and confirmed reality as they knew it: men typically fare far worse than women in recessions. As the three economists point out in research published last month in the Labor Department's Monthly Labor Review, men lost nine times as many jobs as women did in each of the last five recessions. 
 But they also found something that does not bode well for women: in the last two recessions, the employment experience of men and women began to converge. For the first time, women experienced a net loss of jobs. "It is a pattern that the men get most of the layoffs," Mr. Goodman said. "That's known. But's it's getting worse for women."
The trend, if it is one, may mean the end of a devil's tradeoff imposed on women by occupational segregation, wage inequality and discrimination, some economists say. "This is bad news for women," said Heidi Hartmann, head of the Institute for Women's Policy Research in Washington. "It reflects considerable turmoil in the white-collar sector."
What happens to men and women in recessions is largely a function of the industries they work in. Men suffer more layoffs because they tend to work in the goods-producing sector of the economy, which has been more volatile during downturns. Men are also concentrated in specific industries, like steel, that have undergone dramatic and probably permanent shrinkage. "In the four most recent recessions," Mr. Goodman and the other authors write, "the number of unemployed men expanded by one and a half to three times the increase in the number of unemployed women."
Women predominate in the services-producing sector, which has been relatively sheltered from the upheavals of the economy. In fact, the number of "women's jobs" has actually grown through several recessions. Health services, for example, where employment is about four-fifths female, has grown in good times and bad. Social services and education are still predominantly female and growing. And the authors theorize that even in contractions of state and local governments, as occurred in the last two recessions, women are somewhat protected by affirmative action policies.
Even women employed in the industry groups seriously disrupted by recessions, like construction, tend to be insulated. Most women in construction have been office workers, who are still needed when there is a dropoff in demand for laborers, skilled or otherwise.
A cynic might argue that women suffer fewer layoffs in recessions because, given their lower wages, the net savings to employers is so puny.
 MR. GOODMAN agrees to an extent: "Lost jobs tend to be higher paid," he said. "So jobs saved are likely to be lower paid." But the molasses-like rebound of the economy is taking a toll. As Mr. Goodman and his colleagues point out, services are no longer a port in the storm. Though the sector gained some 160,000 jobs in the last recession, in each of the 70's and 80's recessions, it gained a quarter of a million jobs.
It has been a given that women's wages are generally lower than men's. "Men's work" has been more unstable, more susceptible to cyclical production, but rewarded with a higher hourly wage.
Many women have low-paid, near-minimum wage jobs, but relative employment stability. If the service sector is becoming more volatile, "now they can't even count on that," said Ms. Hartmann of the policy research institute.
The increase in employment volatility is also bad news for women because the unemployment insurance system is geared toward workers in male-dominated industries like construction and mining.
Higher-wage workers are likely to have saved enough to ride out a recession, if not necessarily in style, on a weekly unemployment check. Lower-wage workers, without financial reserves, are less likely to be able to get by on that check. "Low earning makes you less able to withstand the onslaught of no earning," Ms. Hartmann said.
And since women predominate in industries like retail, where many jobs are part-time or seasonal, they are less likely to qualify for unemployment insurance. Half the states require workers to work at least 20 hours a week at the minimum wage for a year to qualify for unemployment. "These are problems we didn't have to think of in these sectors," Ms. Hartmann said. "They should be addressed by public policy."
 
 
SOME STATS FROM THE BOTTOM LINE
 A roundup of factoids on women in the workplace from statistics released by the Women's Bureau of the Labor Department earlier this summer:
* Women's labor force participation in the United States hit an all-time high -- at 57.8 percent -- in 1992. Of the 100 million women 16 or older, about 58 million were working.
* In 1983, women held 40 percent (9.7 million) of managerial and professional specialty jobs. That total rose to 47 percent, or 14.7 million, in 1992.
* Women are still over-represented in lower-paying jobs. Forty-four percent -- 23.5 million -- work in technical, sales and administrative support jobs.
The earnings gap is closing, but women still take in only about 75 cents for every dollar men earn, according to 1992 median weekly earnings figures. The figure for women was $381, $505 for men.
* Women earned at least half the bachelor's and master's degrees in the last 12 years.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "How Women Fare in Recessions," track women as percentage of the nonfarm work force, at the start of the most recent recessions, Dec. 1969, July 1990; percent change in employment during the five most recent recessions, for men and women and total, Dec. 1969, Nov. 1973, Jan. 1980, July 1981 and July 1990; percentage change in employment in different sectors (manufacturing, retail trade, services and government) during the five most recent recessions for women and men, Dec. 1969, Nov. 1973, Jan. 1980, July 1981 and July 1990. (Source: Monthly Labor Review)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; MEN; WOMEN; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNITED STATES ECONOMY EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); WOMEN (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



217 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Some Options for Startup Investors

SERIES: First of three articles on investing by generation. Next: the 40's and 50's.

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
INVESTING takes many twists and turns through a lifetime, and what makes sense for beginners in their 20's and 30's is far different from what's best for their elders.
The 20's and 30's are realistically a time of spending, not saving: college loans are paid off, a home is bought and furnished, a family started. Still, some money should be set aside, financial planners say. "Start with the idea that investing is not a choice, it's a necessity," said Carol C. Pankros, a planner in Palatine, Ill., a Chicago suburb. 
 Before investing, create an emergency reserve of up to three months' living expenses, said Harold Evensky, an investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla. Keep it in liquid form -- money market funds or, for slightly higher yields, short-term bond funds. Mr. Evensky likes Federated Short-Intermediate Government Bond Fund, currently yielding 3.53 percent, and Vanguard Short-Term Corporate Bond Fund, 4.91 percent.
Next comes risk management. First, medical coverage and disability insurance. Then, property and casualty insurance. Life insurance probably isn't necessary, unless you have dependents or pre-existing conditions that might prevent future coverage, Ms. Pankros said.
After that, she counsels saving at least 10 percent of gross income. Some mutual funds will automatically deduct money from paychecks or bank accounts and use it to buy shares -- a good option, she said, because if you don't see the money, you don't miss it.
Where that money goes depends on what it's needed for.
If you plan to use it in three years or less to buy, say, a house or a car, "you should be saving, not investing at all," because most investments are too volatile, said Ross Levin, a financial planner in Minneapolis and president-elect of the International Association for Financial Planning, a trade group based in Atlanta. He would combine savings bonds with Vanguard Prime, a money market fund.
People who have three to five years before they intend to use the money, however, should consider stock funds, planners say, choosing the amount of risk they feel comfortable with. Ms. Pankros recommends the Janus Fund, a blue chip fund that often moves into cash, and Financial Industrial Income, which invests one-third of its portfolio in utilities, real estate investment trusts and other high-yielding securities.
Money available for longer than five years should go in part into qualified retirement plans because of tax deductions and deferrals. "Participate at least up to the point that your employer matches your contribution," said Katharine A. McGee, a planner in St. Louis, or set up a Keogh plan if you're self-employed.
The biggest risk for investments at this time of life is inflation, planners agree, not market volatility. Time smoothes out interim fluctuations in the stock market, so "the key to investing is growth, growth and more growth," Mr. Evensky said. Thus nearly all the advisers suggested all-stock portfolios for those with long-term savings.
Index funds might be good bets because new investors generally lack the money to diversify, Mr. Evensky said. Index funds buy all or a representative sample of securities in a market index, so "you don't have to worry about being in the right place at the right time," he said. Mr. Evensky likes the Vanguard Index Trust Portfolio 500, which tracks Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, and the Schwab 1000, which tracks the 1,000 largest domestic stocks.
Index funds do, however, garner only market returns. For an actively managed fund that might return more, Mr. Evensky likes SoGen International, which invests in stocks and bonds worldwide, sold no-load through Charles Schwab & Company. (Sold by others, it carries a 3.75 percent upfront load.)
One possibility for start-up investors, said Eileen M. Sharkey, a planner in Denver, is to split a portfolio between Vanguard Wellington, which mixes bonds and stocks, and Financial Industrial Income. These are "all-weather core holdings that won't make a million dollars but will do well in good markets and bad," she said.
Systematic investing, a strategy often called "dollar cost averaging" that involves investing fixed amounts regularly, lessens risk because, on average, you buy more shares when prices are lower. Mr. Levin recommends the Kaufmann Fund, a very aggressive stock fund, the volatility of which can be offset by systematic investing.
As you begin to accumulate more money to invest, begin diversifying -- that is, splitting investments among various assets or investing styles, with the idea that if one style is out of favor, the others may earn gains to offset the losses. Today most advisers recommend splitting stock portfolios among domestic small-company funds, and funds that buy stocks based on future earnings growth ("growth funds") or cheap current prices ("value funds"). Add a sprinkling, 10 to 20 percent, of funds that invest abroad.
Among growth stock funds, Mr. Evensky likes Gabelli Growth and SEI Capital Appreciation; among value funds, Windsor II and SEI Value. He recommends three small-company funds: Meridian, SEI Small Cap Growth Portfolio and DFA U.S. Small Cap Value; and three international: T. Rowe Price International Stock, Harbor International and SEI International.

GRAPHIC: Table lists performance of three international stock funds (Harbor International, T. Rowe Price and SEI International) recommended by some investment advisors for diversifying a portfolio. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL PLANNING INFORMATION INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; MUTUAL FUNDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BONDS (91%); BOND FUNDS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (79%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); US KEOGH PLANS (60%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



218 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1931 words

HEADLINE: From Russia, With Red Tape: A Technology Boom

BYLINE: By SABRA CHARTRAND

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
LABORING behind the Iron Curtain, Soviet scientists often worked in crude laboratories, struggling to create new medical, chemical or engineering technologies with fewer resources than their Western counterparts.
These disadvantages frequently compelled the scientists to make do, pushing the limits of creativity in ways that led to unorthodox, uniquely economical or especially efficient inventions. But since nearly every scientific or engineering institute was dedicated to military research, many of the Soviet Union's most innovative scientific discoveries were stamped "top secret" and never seen in the West. 
 Until now. Even as much of the potential wealth of the former Soviet Union is trapped by the breakup of its republics, more American business executives are jetting to and from Moscow, positioning themselves as brokers to market Russian technology to the West.
Some American companies, like the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, have gone directly to former Soviet institutes to hire their staffs. But the sheer number of institutes -- there are hundreds -- is giving American brokers an opportunity to carve out their own niche.
For the Russians, the brokers represent a chance to redirect a scientific industry on the verge of collapse now that military research money has all but dried up. For the brokers, the Russians represent a chance to hit it big.
"The changes in Russia are an enormous opportunity for U.S. industry," said Mark S. Taylor, a vice president of one of the biggest new technology transfer companies, East/ West Technology Partners Ltd., which is based in Washington. "Access to Russian technology is a great resource. But obviously we're also in this because there's money to be made."
DESPITE the formidable amounts of red tape and complicated questions about ownership, American brokers are negotiating licensing rights to market hundreds of Russian inventions in the United States. They include drug treatments for tumors, lithium batteries, a method for diagnosing pre-cancerous cells, steelmaking processes, magnetic welding, ultraviolet sterilizers for medical tools -- even an industrial-strength deodorizer.
It is impossible to put a dollar value on the new industry because none of the brokers has sold any of the technologies to American manufacturers. But some of the brokers, like East/West Technology and Scientific Dimensions U.S.A. Inc., say deals are close and they will be earning licensing fees and manufacturing or sales royalties by the end of the year. The potential payoff, they say, is huge.
East/West, which was formed in May, says it is about to license a Russian all-aluminum circuit board to the Unisys Corporation. Unisys says it is still evaluating the worth of the invention, but East/West executives say they believe the deal might ultimately earn them half a billion dollars a year in royalties alone. (The standard arrangement is a 50-50 split with the Russian inventors, with the Americans paying up-front legal and research costs for patents and marketing.)
No one knows how many brokers are scrambling for a piece of the pie, but they have been popping up in all sizes and shapes with increasing frequency.
Large American consulting firms, like B.D.M. International Inc. and Kaiser Research, which have hundreds of scientists and engineers, are entering into joint ventures with companies formed in Moscow that represent former Soviet research institutes. Patent law firms are forming scientific branches to search for technology in Moscow. And independent entrepreneurs are trying to cash in on one or two Russian inventions.
Scientific Dimensions, for example, was started in February 1992 by the New York patent law firm of Kenyon & Kenyon, now one of its shareholders. The company, which has an office in Moscow and eight Russian patent agents, already has 280 patent applications pending in the United States for Russian technology, according to its president, Charles A. Gamer Jr., who travels to Russia about every six weeks.
"There are some great inventions here," said Mr. Gamer, looking over the prototypes in his office in Lexington, Mass. "I've got radiation reflective cloth, I've got titanium alloys, cold cathodes for producing ions. I've got crazy stuff like hair gels and a lock so big and heavy that even though it's burglar-proof you'd never want to use it."
He added: "So many things Russian scientists did were just submerged because they didn't want the West to get a hold of it. Or it was deemed a military secret. Anybody working in space fell into that."
As an example, Mr. Gamer offered up an invention for an artificial soil -- a fabric, imbedded with nutrients, that can be wrapped around seedlings to help them grow in space.
"But how can trans-genic fish be a military secret?" he asked, referring to Russian work in genetic engineering. "Because they were making whales five times the size so they could ram submarines?"
So the hunt for a gold mine in hidden technologies is on.
East/West Technologies says it may have found one when it bought the rights to a chemical compound that it says will dye cancerous and pre-cancerous cells, allowing surgeons to remove cancerous tissue with precision.
"One big problem in cancer surgery is where is the margin between tumors and healthy tissue?," said the company president, Arnold Lipman. "The general tendency is the radical approach, to take too much tissue just to be safe."
He says he believes the compound, developed by Dr. Viktor Lazarev at Moscow State University, could also radically alter cancer diagnoses by pinpointing pre-cancerous cells. The compound, after being injected or taken orally in the form of a dye, is absorbed by the cancerous and pre-cancerous tissues. During surgery, a special light generated by optical equipment developed by Dr. Lazarev causes the dye to become fluorescent, distinguishing the diseased cells from healthy tissue.
This is the sort of potential that is prompting brokers to bring together Russian and American companies that might otherwise never find each other. But first, the brokers must be expert in the legal systems and business cultures of both countries.
That means understanding patent law, marketing, sales negotiations and corporate contracts. It also means finding Russian friends and other contacts as guides through the tangled bureaucracies left behind by 70 years of Communism. In many instances, that means taking on a Russian partner.
That was the case with East/West, which was formed when Mr. Lipman started a joint venture with a Russian company set up by Evgeniy Velikohov, vice president of the Russian Academy of Sciences and a scientific adviser to President Boris Yeltsin.
But East/West decided it also needed a third partner, someone prominent enough to get corporate leaders to return his calls. So Mr. Lipman and Mr. Velikohov turned to B.D.M. International and its chairman Frank Carlucci, a former Secretary of Defense.
Still, the business side of this new industry -- isolating the technology, evaluating its market worth and pitching it to big American manufacturers -- may be its easiest part.
"The single largest problem is not finding or selling, but proving the chain of title," to show who really owns the Russian technology, Mr. Lipman said. One of the first things the American brokers want to know is whether the invention can be patented.
"You are starting with a system where the Government owned everything," Mr. Lipman said, echoing other Americans working in Russia. "They might have given the scientist an inventor's certificate. But the invention belonged to the institute where he worked, which was controlled by a particular ministry, so it was the property of the state."
The Soviet Union long allowed writers and musicians to patent or copyright their work. But the first technology patent laws were put on the books only last January and they were not retroactive.
"You have to get a release from the institute the scientist worked for," Mr. Lipman said. "Then you have to go to the Government ministry and do the same thing."
If that does not work, the Russian Government has the power to "provide the title by decree," he said.
IN some cases, though, Russian inventions cannot be patented because the inventors were ignorant of international patent law. When Russian scientists came to the West in the past, they sometimes presented papers on their inventions or published brochures about them and went home. But they often did not follow up with a patent application, allowing their inventions to fall into the public domain.
Apart from the questions about the chain of title, the technology must have commercial potential. "We discard more Russian technology than we take," Mr. Lipman said. "It may be great science, but there's not enough commercial potential. Or it's already being done here and the Russians don't realize it."
But if the Americans are interested, they will do a market analysis of the sales potential of the invention. Since the Russians have no hard currency, the American brokers pay for the patents and marketing. That can be risky because the licenses might not pay off. But if they do, the royalties could roll in for years with few continuing costs.
"There's never been an opportunity like this before, and probably won't be again," said Mr. Gamer, of Scientific Dimensions. "It's like discovering Atlantis." 
 
 
SO WHOSE IDEA IS IT, ANYWAY?
 AMERICANS are not the only ones fixating on dreams of lucrative royalties from Russian technologies -- European and Japanese companies are also rushing to cash in.
But the Americans say the race is not just against time and a crowded field. The bigger hurdle is trying to overcome the legacy of Soviet red tape and a Russian system that has not yet settled on new business laws and practices.
"It's frustrating, definitely a challenge," said Herman J. Hohauser, president of the American Group for Innovation and Technology Inc., a technology brokerage company based in Washington. "There are so many people there who say they have technology they want to transfer. We've got a bunch waiting, but we want to be sure we're dealing with reputable people."
Mr. Hohauser speaks from painful experience.
"I signed a contract with a company in Russia called Altair Holdings, which assured me it had the rights to about 30 Russian military technologies," he said with a sigh. "But in the first technology we're working on, the ownership issue has become a quagmire."
Altair Holdings had offered rights to a formula for ultra-dispersive powders, sometimes called nanophase powders because they are composed of particles measuring a billionth of an inch. Mr. Hohauser said the formula could be used in paints to enhance color and density.
"When we asked for samples of the material, another man from outside Altair appeared and intimated he was the real inventor," Mr. Hohauser said. "Now we're in the middle of trying to find out who owns this technology." He could not guess how long that might take.
Others say they believe wild-goose chases over a title can sometimes be tests to determine if Western executives have staying power.
"If they smell you and like you, to use a Russian term, then they'll give you something horrible to follow up on to see if you can cut the mustard," said Charles A. Gamer Jr., president of Scientific Dimensions U.S.A. Inc., another American brokerage concern.
Sometimes, "there could be 15 guys pursuing the same worthless technology," Mr. Gamer said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Viktor Lazarev with a device for the early diagnosis of cancer. (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USY (LSE) (80%); UIS (SWX) (80%); UIS (NYSE) (80%); T (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (80%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (80%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (80%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: EAST/WEST TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS LTD (83%); UNISYS CORP (80%); AT&T INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; LICENSING AGREEMENTS; RESEARCH; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (86%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); CANCER (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



219 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 14; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS;
How Thirsty Plants Struggle to Survive

BYLINE: By Anne Raver

 BODY:
THE cows in New Jersey are so hot they don't feel like making milk. The drought in Georgia has deep-sixed the corn. And it almost looks like fall in Central Park.
What the ground needs is a slow, steady rain that lasts about a week. A sudden heavy downpour will run right off hard-packed soil that in some cases is dry four feet down. 
 "Some trees have lost most of their leaves," said Tobi Bergman, the park's tree-care coordinator. "The London planes are particularly hard hit. The lawns are all brown, and we're trying our best to save the shrubs."
Though New York City's Department of Environmental Protection has not declared a drought emergency -- or imposed the water restrictions that ensue -- the city's eight reservoirs and three lakes are low. The normal reservoir level for this time of year is 88.7 percent, but it is down to 73.5 percent.
"We're definitely concerned, but we're not that close to declaring a drought," said Ian Michaels, a spokesman for the department. "The last time we declared a drought -- the spring of 1992 -- we were 25 percentage points below normal."
He added: "If we did declare a drought, it's at least three weeks away -- and that's if we went without any rain at all."
Meanwhile, it sure looks like a drought out there.
"The ground is so baked, our turf specialist said his teeth almost rattled out of his head when he had to mow," said Edmond Moulin, the director of horticulture at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. "The colloids of clay in the soil have pulled together so tight, the ground is just like adobe. It's cracked in some places."
And when soil is that dry, there's not a drop of water left for plants, especially when hot weather is increasing their transpiration. Under normal conditions, plants draw water up from the soil as they photosynthesize, taking carbon dioxide from the air, and release oxygen and water vapor through openings in the leaves called stomates.
"Plants have an incredibly strong ability to pull water in from the soil even when it appears to be quite dry," said Dr. Wayt Thomas, a botanist at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. "But when the amount of moisture gets so low, plants can't draw up any more, they will start to shut down and the leaves will wilt."
Leaves wilt partly because there simply isn't enough water in their cells to keep them turgid, and partly out of self-defense.
"The plant will cut its losses, shed its leaves and preserve what energy it has left for twigs and stems," Dr. Thomas said. "Not much water can get out through the bark."
So what's a gardener to do? Water, of course, but choose your rescue efforts well. If you need to conserve water, forget the lawn.
"Worry about the grass last; the grass will come back if it's well established," said Mr. Moulin at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. "I've never seen a whole lawn die out anywhere, though you may have bare spots and weeds, which always seem to find enough moisture to grow."
You can help out your lawn by mowing a lot less. "If it gets real high, maybe take off just half an inch," Mr. Moulin said. "But unless it gets too weedy -- kind of seedy-looking -- keep it about three and a half inches high."
Brittle grass does not need a good shave to add to its stress. Nor does it need the wheels of a lawn mower rolling over it. Don't even walk on it, if you can help it. (Ever notice how you can leave footprints in a dry lawn? That's because it doesn't have the turgor, or pressure from fluids in its cells, to spring back.) And please, don't fertilize a dry lawn. You don't want to push the poor thing into growing more when it's dying of thirst.
"Never apply fertilizer to anything when the soil is dry," Mr. Moulin said. "And that includes soluble fertilizer. If the soil is too dry, the soluble salts could end up taking water out of the plant."
Sarah Price, curator of the Conservatory Garden in Central Park, said the priorities during dry spells are trees, shrubs and lawns, in that order.
"It's an economic issue, but it's also a structural one," she said. "If you lose your annuals, that's sad, but you can replant next year."
Ms. Price has 50-year-old lilacs and 30-year-old azaleas with wilting leaves in her garden. "Usually, you don't have to water such established plants," she said.
Mr. Moulin said the Brooklyn Botanic Garden has been watering new trees and plants put in this year on a weekly basis. "But even the old ones are showing stress," he said. "Our Oriental summersweet is really flagging. So are the azaleas and rhododendrons." When veterans like these get crispy leaves, it's a sign that even their deep roots are coming up with zero.
So lay a hose at the base of a flagging tree and just let it drip slowly for a few hours. This method avoids the evaporation that occurs with a sprinkler, and puts precious water just where you want it. If you have a sprinkler, leave it on long enough to give your plants an inch of water a week. Put some coffee cans around the area to see how much accumulates over a period of time.
"If things are really dried out to the point of wilted, I put the water on for a couple hours," Ms. Price said.
Dr. Thomas advised: "Water deep. Let it soak in a long time." One of the worst things you can do for plants is to water frequently for short periods of time, because superficial watering encourages shallow roots. Water deeply and roots will follow that moisture deep into the ground.
Everything should be mulched, of course, with an inch or two of some organic material like wood chips, cocoa hulls, pine needles, shredded leaves or salt hay, to keep whatever moisture there is in the ground.
"Touch up the bare spots, especially around the base of the plant, where the mulch has washed away, or maybe you planted it too high anyway," said James Cross, a nurseryman on the North Fork of Long Island. Mr. Cross can't say enough about the importance of good topsoil and compost. "I can show you gardens out here that haven't gotten a drop of water and they're in great shape," he said.
So if you're planning a new garden or lawn for next spring, invest in good topsoil this fall: eight inches to a foot and a half. Add another four inches of compost. It may seem expensive now, but good soil, which holds moisture and nutrients, is life insurance in a drought.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; DROUGHT; WATER; LAWNS; TREES AND SHRUBS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS DROUGHT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); GARDENING (77%); HORTICULTURE (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LAKES (74%); BOTANY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: RAVER, ANNE MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



220 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 13; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: ENGAGEMENTS;
Miss Handwerger And Mr. Large

 BODY:
Gretchen M. Handwerger of Paris and Joseph Handwerger of Washington have announced the engagement of their daughter Anne Chapman Handwerger to Curtis Eugene Large, a son of the Rev. and Mrs. Wayne T. Large of Ann Arbor, Mich. An October wedding is planned.
Miss Handwerger, 25, and her fiance, 23, are associate consultants at Bain & Company, the management consulting firm in Boston. They graduated from Yale University, she cum laude. 
 Her father is the principal of Joseph Handwerger Architects, in Washington. Her mother, a former deputy director of the Peace Corps, is with the World Bank as the special representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.
Mr. Large's mother teaches history at the Central Middle School in Plymouth, Mich. His father is the director of the Wesley Foundation, the church ministry at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (72%); PEACE CORPS (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (87%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (84%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); 

PERSON: HANDWERGER, ANNE CHAPMAN; LARGE, CURTIS EUGENE

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



221 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT CARS;
Lexus Weighs In With a 'Gran' Sedan

BYLINE: By Marshall Schuon

 BODY:
IT occurs to me that it has been a good long while since I have heard Detroit automakers whine about "perceived quality."
What that phrase meant to the executives who were wringing their hands through much of the last decade was a misguided public's notion that Japanese cars were simply better, no matter the actual quality of domestic cars. 
 Charitably, one could say Detroit was wrong. Or, more likely, disingenuous.
The executives did have to sell cars, after all. And the reason we don't hear the same old cry is that the Big Three have finally done something about quality. American automobiles are closing in on the imports, in the way they are built and in the way they are sold.
Ford was the first to make a serious effort with its popular Taurus. The rejuvenated Chrysler Corporation then came nipping at its heels and now has terrific products in the form of the LH sedans. And General Motors formed a new subsidiary, Saturn, to retake lost territory.
Still, it took Toyota, Nissan and Honda to light the way. After Honda created its Acura luxury division, Nissan countered with Infiniti, and Toyota weighed in with Lexus, perhaps the most polished series of new cars in history.
Lexus continues to dominate the surveys for quality and satisfaction, and the latest of those, the 1993 J. D. Power and Associates customer satisfaction index, shows Lexus in the top spot for the third year in a row. The California market research firm based its results on responses from 31,000 owners of 1992 and early '93 cars and trucks, and Toyota-produced vehicles accounted for 6 of the top 12 models.
Lexus appeared on the scene in 1989 with the LS 400 sedan, and the line has evolved into SC 400 and SC 300 coupes and an ES 300 sedan. This year, too, there is a new GS 300 sedan.
And if all those alphanumerics are as confusing to you as they are to me, remember that Toyota has adopted the Mercedes way of doing things, and the letters stand for the body style, and the numbers reflect the size of the engine.
What that means is that an LS is a luxury sedan; SC stands for sport coupe; ES is an executive sedan (whatever that is), and the GS is a gran sedan. The 400 series carries a 4-liter V8, and the 300 stands for a 3-liter six. All clear? Good.
For 1993, the four-door GS 300 fills the gap in the line that occurred over the last several years when the LS 400 moved farther upscale and gained a sticker that currently reads $47,000. With a base price of $37,500 ($42,263 as tested), the GS 300 puts Lexus back where it started.
It also puts the car into competition with some heavy-hitter imports, among them BMW's 5-series models, Saab's 9000 Aero, and, to some extent, the Mercedes 300E. But the Lexus is considerably longer and wider than any of those and has more interior stretch in most of its measurements.
The maroon tester (Prussian red pearl, excuse me) with its body-colored bumpers, blackout trim, molded wheels and front air dam, was a very rounded car with a wedge-shaped profile that reflected its origins in the Italian design studio of Giorgio Giugiaro.
A high rear end emphasizes the pleasing and aerodynamic wedge, but the tall rump has its price, too. Liftover for the medium-sized trunk is at bumper height -- but the bumper is so high that back strain is a possibility.
Dual exhausts emit a nice tone under that bumper, and the engine they serve is a twin-cam 24-valve in-line six. Its 3 liters produce 220 horsepower and 210 foot-pounds of torque, which is sufficient but not overly muscular in a car that taxes the scales at 3,652 pounds. Antilock brakes are standard.
Considering the car's heft, too, fuel economy is reasonable if not great, and the 21-gallon tank doles out its premium contents at a rate of one gallon for each 18 miles, city, and 23, highway.
Like all Lexi, the GS 300 is a rear-wheel-drive model, and the engine's power feeds through a four-speed automatic transmission. Zero-to-60 acceleration takes slightly more than nine seconds, but the car feels quicker than that when you are tromping the accelerator at the highway's on-ramp. Out there in traffic, the Lexus hush takes hold. This is an extremely quiet car, and it ladles on the comfort, particularly if you like isolation with your jam.
If you care to make noise, though, the entire hub of the four-spoked wheel serves as a horn, a real safety feature in these days of tiny and hard-to-find buttons. The hub houses an air bag, and another bag protects the front passenger, occupying a space in the top of the dash over a medium-size glovebox.
When you turn the ignition off, the steering column automatically tilts up and out of the way to make exit easier, returning to its preset position the next time the key is turned. The usual power-everything is standard in the GS 300, and the ergonomics put some of the competition to shame.
The window buttons are in the driver's armrest, where they should be, and a padded armrest in the center console is replete with dual cupholders. The standard sound system is an impressive 225-watt unit, but if that's not good enough for you, the test car's 280-watt Nakamichi setup with a compact-disk changer in the trunk can be had for a mere $1,900 more.
The upholstery is leather, of course -- cream colored in the maroon test car -- and real walnut trim offers the counterpoint.
The GS 300 can seat five, but that is a nominal figure, and four is more realistic, given the car's high driveshaft hump, which would put the middle-rear passenger's knees in the vicinity of his or her chin. Otherwise, though, there is good room in the back, and the seat has a fold-down center armrest. The rear windows provide one of the few nits to pick in the car, however, because they go down only halfway.
Up front, it's another story, and there is nothing not to like. The reclining buckets are thoroughly comfortable, the driving position is excellent, and the vista inside and out is just plain satisfying.
If Detroit hadn't said differently for all those years, I'd know I was perceiving quality.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leather and wood adorn the GS 300's interior. Chrome surrounds the grille, but most of the body's trim is of the blackout variety. (Photographs by Marshall Schuon/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT CARS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: LEXUS DIVISION OF TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEXUS DIVISION OF TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); MARKETING SURVEYS (70%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (65%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); 

PERSON: SCHUON, MARSHALL

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



222 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Study Doesn't Prove Beer Harms Students

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Alcohol's Effect on Learning," a "Blackboard" item in your Aug. 1 Education Life supplement, reports on a study by two Duke University professors, but fails to probe shortcomings of the research.
This study is one more overreaching, simplistic attempt to justify massive beer tax increases as the panacea for a problem that has much deeper roots. The study creates an illusory cause-and-effect link between academic success, the level of state beer taxes and the availability of beer to young people. It trivializes a problem of educational decline that is rooted in the changing -- some might say weakening -- social, political, environmental and economic fabrics of our society. 
 Student test scores and achievement are suffering for reasons far more complicated than those espoused by the Duke study.
Beer taxes are already highly regressive, meaning that their impact is greatest on middle- and lower-income families. Beer is taxed three times higher than most other consumer goods. No reliable studies have ever established a link between higher taxes and lower rates of alcohol abuse. The Duke study's recommendation to raise taxes is not an effective or appropriate response to declining academic achievement.
Problems of alcohol abuse by young people require real solutions, like intensive, objective alcohol education.
 
WILLIAM L. SCHREIBER
President, Beer Drinkers
of America and Party Smart
Costa Mesa, Calif., Aug. 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; BEER; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS BEER & ALE (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); FAMILY (73%); TAX LAW (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); 

PERSON: SCHREIBER, WILLIAM L

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



223 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 13; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Joining Technology And the Work Force

 BODY:
The article "For Law Graduates, a Scarcity of Jobs" (New Jersey Q & A, July 11), is more evidence of the growing need in this country for an integrated employment agency.
With the combination of new technologies, along with downsizing and re-engineering of jobs, the greatest threat to the American work force has become its own increased productivity. An example of this could be seen when Martin Allen attributed the scarcity of jobs for lawyers in New Jersey to their own efficiency. 
 In this age of total quality management, we are beginning to see more and more tasks that in the past took 30 employees 25 days to complete now take one employee one hour. Technology is such that General Motors could construct a mile-long plant that is run by three people. If we are to remain a competitive nation, our work force must be prepared and adapted to these changes.
The problem has become one of a lack of harmonization. The work force is filled with potential workers who have been prepared and oriented toward positions that either do not exist or will not exist any longer. The job market, on the other hand, is filled with positions that require skills and abilities that are at the moment scarce.
The result is a high need for employees coupled with high unemployment and no vehicle for reconciling these two situations. An integrated employment agency, which could harmonize the work force with the needs of business not only today but also 5 and 10 years into the future, could be this vehicle.
An integrated employment agency that could link the business community and schools through an intelligence network would help to tailor tomorrow's work force to business's future needs. By giving employers more input into the preparation of their future employees, schools could be preparing students for tomorrow's jobs.
 
MARC ESPOSITO
Staten Island

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LAWYERS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); 

PERSON: ESPOSITO, MARC MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



224 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Is Pulled From the Brink. He'll Be Back.

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE margin could not have been thinner or the stakes higher. One switched vote in the Senate or the House of Representatives, and Bill Clinton would have lost his economic package and perhaps his Presidency. So all the bargaining in the great souk on Capitol Hill over the last three months, all the searching for backbone by legislators terrified of the electoral guillotine, clearly was worth it.
Thursday's and Friday's gut-wrenching roll-call victories represented a down payment on Mr. Clinton's campaign and inaugural promises to get the country moving again. Failure would have made the President look impotent on the economic issues that stand quite clearly at the center of national politics. He has avoided that, although the urgency of taming the deficit has allowed him little room for the innovative programs and redirection of Government that he and his party are committed to seek. 
 Whether his victories really represent a turning point for the Republic, a departure down a new road of fiscal sanity, as so many Democratic orators argued last week, is another question.
Although most of the new taxes will be borne by the rich, as Mr. Clinton's Technicolor pie charts showed, the package comes nowhere near undoing Ronald Reagan's tax breaks for the wealthy. It leaves the tax burden in the United States far less onerous than those in most other Western nations. If the electorate is as serious as it tells itself it is about eliminating the deficit and cutting the national debt, it will eventually have to accept far more than this modest effort to increase revenues.
It will also have to support far deeper spending cuts and there are only a few categories where such savings can be found -- mainly in military outlays, where significant cuts are under way, and in so-called entitlement spending, on Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and the like, where they aren't.
But the great lesson of the passage of Bill Clinton's proposals through what is laughably referred to here as the legislative process is that neither broad new taxes nor painful spending cuts can be achieved in the political environment that now exists in the United States. Mr. Clinton's energy tax and his fallback proposal for a significant increase in the gasoline tax both had to be jettisoned to keep Senator Herb Kohl of Wisconsin on board. Other legislators demanded and got breaks for favored constituencies.
"It's a start," the Democrats say. Projected spending would be reduced by more than $250 billion over the next five years (though most of the cuts would come later than that, and the President and Congress may be tempted to cut the cuts as their effective dates draw near). The other half of the package will come, in large part, from raising the top income tax rate to 36 from 31 percent (with a surcharge on those with taxable incomes above $250,000), as well as small increases in the gasoline tax and in corporate tax rates.
Struggles With Soloists
Still, the plan does not envision eliminating the deficit; indeed, the Administration's own figures show the deficit rising again after five years. If Mr. Clinton is still in office then, the chances that he will attack again are minimal. Second-term Presidents are seldom innovators, partly because Congress, knowing that they can't run again to gain a fresh mandate, won't let them be.
It may be that Mr. Clinton was rolled by Congress, that he caved in too soon on some issues, thereby convincing Senators and Representatives that they could get what they wanted if they held out long enough. Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who provided the decisive vote in the Senate, said the President had been dangerously "green" when he came to Washington, but surely he assigned an insufficient portion of the blame to his own colleagues when he urged Mr. Clinton to "say no to us; get us back onto the high ground where we actually prefer to be."
Mr. Clinton had as hard a time as he did partly because members of Congress in the modern era, even members of the President's party, tend to see themselves as soloists. Like primadonnas everywhere, they demand pampering. A senior White House official commented with disgust on Friday that many freshman House members demanded to talk to the President personally.
If the Democrats threw tantrums, the Republicans sulked in a corner. Historians at the Library of Congress and elsewhere could remember no major piece of legislation at least since World War II that was passed without a single vote from the opposition party. Meanwhile, the public continued on its fickle way. People demand that the deficit be cut, the polls said. They are willing to bear their fair share, the polls said. But to judge by the uproar that rose every time the lawmakers suggested a tuck here or a trim there, they defined "fair" as "infinitesimal." It was entirely appropriate that one poll on the eve of the final vote showed that 43 percent of the electorate wanted the economic package passed and 44 percent did not. The country was right where the legislators were: split down the middle. It must not be as simple to fix this automobile as Ross Perot says it is.
Armageddon Can Wait
With most of his agenda still awaiting action, Mr. Clinton bravely insisted, "The margin was close, but the mandate is clear." In fact, the path ahead is less visible this weekend than it seemed to be when the President took office. Health-care reform is absolutely vital to Mr. Clinton's plans and to the Democrats' future. If the deficit is not to skyrocket once again, Medicaid and Medicare and the cost of private health insurance must be brought under control.
The search for funding has led the Administration toward some sort of fee system. Last week's debates suggest that anything like that will be seen as an indirect tax and, as such, political poison. A member of the Senate leadership commented "if this was Guadalcanal, passing health care is likely to be Armageddon if we're not careful."
Bob Dole, who likes to posture as the ax murderer of American politics, knows that his party eventually has to stand for some things and not just against everything the President wants. Already, the Republicans have been forced to give way on Mr. Clinton's national service program, and on Friday night, Mr. Dole made a point of suggesting that on some of the big tests to come -- he mentioned the North American Free Trade Agreement, and he might have mentioned welfare reform -- some of the President's best friends will be Republicans.
Perhaps Mr. Clinton has broken through a psychological if not a political barrier by passing an economic package with at least a family resemblance to the one he wanted. Perhaps things will be different in Washington now. But much of the country doesn't like this budget, thinks it will hurt the middle class, whatever Mr. Clinton says, thinks the President is doing a lackluster job and mistrusts most things the Government does.
It is that pervasive lack of confidence that Mr. Clinton must now assail, hoping all the while that his economic medicine works. The stakes are not small. A man who would like to unseat him in 1996, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, gleefully stated the alternative on Friday night: "I believe thousands of people are going to lose their jobs. I believe Bill Clinton will be one of those people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore patting President Clinton on the back after the House of Representatives narrowly approved Mr. Clinton's five-year economic plan. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INCOME TAX (70%); MEDICARE (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); FUEL TAX (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); MEDICAID (55%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (58%); HERB KOHL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



225 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Forget About Lotus Land. Thank You for Not Smoking.

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
AS a boy, Roger Diamond sometimes snatched the cigarette from his mother's mouth and demanded that she quit her "disgusting habit." As he grew older, he took to carrying a water pistol with him to squirt at smokers. Naturally he became a lawyer, and he made it his business to agitate, in vain, to make jury rooms smoke-free.
Today Mr. Diamond is a successful criminal lawyer, but his heart is still in his anti-smoking campaign. And now he is tasting one of his greatest victories as a ban on smoking took effect in all restaurants throughout Los Angeles last week. He is not the leader, but he is one of the most dedicated soldiers in what is just the latest, but perhaps the most authoritarian, in this state's long history of health crusades. 
 After years of struggle, the Los Angeles City Council passed the restaurant-smoking ban last month. It has survived, for now, a petition challenge by opponents, and amid much confusion at restaurants big and small, it took effect.
Mr. Diamond was expansive the other evening, relaxing at home in sweat clothes after his yoga lesson, with a giant bowl of no-salt, no-butter popcorn on his lap and the Pacific Ocean lying calm beneath his picture window.
" 'Stop poisoning me,' I say to these people, 'Stop,' " he said.
He is aware of the clash of California cultures his passions embody: health fanaticism meets do your own thing. In recent years, pushed by people like Mr. Diamond, anti-pollution measures have threatened to encroach on power mowers and outdoor barbecues. Automobile emissions have been strictly regulated. But smoking is pollution at its most personal, and people here don't like being told what to do.
"It's totally wrong, totally wrong," said Martine Varlet, manager of Modo Mio restaurant in the affluent Pacific Palisades area. "When I heard of it, I said, 'No way.' I don't have to argue with customers any more; this law did the job for me. But I still don't think it's right."
As California has become more congested, with traffic jams sometimes stretching the entire 100 miles from Los Angeles to San Diego, the nation's westward migration has shown signs of reversing itself, with people heading east to Arizona, Utah or Wyoming for open spaces and jobs. Those who stay behind remain in a region increasingly defined by its problems -- pollution, congestion, crime, economic decline and an influx of immigrants -- and many are ready to embrace limits.
 
Lobbying Against Limits
 "In California we do our own thing; I believe in that very strongly," said Mr. Diamond. "But you have to have regulation. You have to tell people what to do, because we don't have a perfect society."
Not surprisingly, California is a leader in the nation's anti-smoking movement. Of the 70 jurisdictions to ban smoking in restaurants nationwide, 60 are in California. Los Angeles is the biggest city yet to institute the ban, over the strenuous lobbying of the tobacco industry. Ten other California cities are set to consider similar measures in the next month.
The battle is being fought simultaneously at the statewide level as two competing regulatory bills make their way through the legislature, one of them supported by smokers and one by non-smokers.
Yet of all the state's problems, of all the issues that call for regulation, it is immigration, both legal and illegal, that has most seized people's attention today. And it is these demographic shifts that will do the most to redefine California, especially Southern California, in the years to come.
"We've been the leader in California," Mr. Diamond said with enthusiasm. "Frozen yogurt came from California. Tofu did. Jogging came from California."
But these are not the foods or the pastimes of a large portion of the swelling immigrant population that has turned whole neighborhoods of the city into dislocated fragments of El Salvador, Mexico, Guatemala, Armenia or Korea. Smoking is not their issue.
Its prominence is one more reminder that the political agenda here is changing more slowly than the population and that in a city like Los Angeles, where minorities make up nearly half the residents, a white Mayor can be elected with a base of support among white voters in outlying areas.
"In a way, it's a class thing," Mr. Diamond said of the anti-smoking campaign. The immigrant population has other concerns. But as immigrants assimilate, they embrace as well as change the culture of their new home, taking on a society shaped by the California enthusiasms of personal fulfillment and a readiness to look beyond jogging and tofu to embrace any other new fads and philosophies.
Ms. Varlet of the Modo Mio restaurant is herself an immigrant, from France, and she revels in individualism. As she takes the corners of Sunset Boulevard or breezes up the highway, she refuses to wear her seat belt as the law requires, challenging the police to ticket her.
When they do, she lectures them on personal freedom, and in return, they give her a lesson in the kinds of controls that are strapping in the residents of California for their own good, like seat belts and smoking laws.
"They just say, 'Madam, it's the law,' " Ms. Varlet said in disappointment. "They are not sensitive to feminine charm. This is supposed to be the land of freedom, but it's all an illusion."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (55%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (55%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RESTAURANTS SMOKING (92%); SMOKING BANS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LOBBYING (73%); PETITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); YOGA (68%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%); CITIES (53%); CITY GOVERNMENT (53%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



226 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Puerto Rico's Identity, Up for a Vote

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico

 BODY:
IN little more than three months, Puerto Ricans will be asked whether they prefer to become the 51st state, remain a commonwealth or seek independence. The campaign leading up to the vote is barely under way, but it is clear that partisans of all three options are also grappling with an underlying question: What does it mean to be a Puerto Rican?
Ever since the United States seized this lush Caribbean island in 1898 as booty of the Spanish-American War, the relationship between the mainland and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has been marked by ambivalence on both sides. Puerto Ricans have often seemed unsure whether to regard themselves as Americans, Latin Americans or both. 
 Many on the mainland evidently find it difficult to regard a mixed-race, Spanish-speaking society with a per capita annual income of just over $6,000 as truly being part of America.
If it were a state, Puerto Rico would have more members in Congress than 25 states. Since its 3.7 million people do not live in a state, they do not pay Federal taxes and they have their own Olympic team. But they still can be drafted.
The plebiscite comes at a moment when Puerto Ricans are being sharply reminded of their second-class colonial status. With only symbolic representation in Congress and unable to vote in Federal elections unless they live on the mainland, they watched impotently as the Clinton Administration and Congress, intent on reducing the budget deficit, hacked away at the corporate tax exemptions that have been the backbone of the local economy for the last 40 years.
As a result, Puerto Rican subsidiaries of mainland companies saw the reduction of the 100 percent income credit that encouraged many to locate here. The companies will now be expected to pay $3.75 billion in Federal taxes during the next five years, which, leaders here fear, could encourage them to shift their operatons to Mexico to benefit from the North American Free Trade Agreement. Washington has offered little in compensation from the expected losses. Furthermore, the Nov. 14 vote is not binding, so that even if the statehood option wins narrowly, as many here predict, Congress could reject the island's petition to join the union.
 
A Plebiscite or an Opinion Poll?
 From 1989 through 1991 both the Senate and the House, urged on by the Bush Administration, debated legislation that would have established a binding plebiscite. In the end they failed to take action, fueling the suspicion here that Congress is simply unwilling to add a 51st star to the flag. "Statehood is contrary to the national interest of the United States," said Ruben Berrios, head of the Puerto Rican Independence Party. "That is why there was no plebiscite."
Largely because of that experience, Puerto Ricans cannot even agree what to call the upcoming vote. Gov. Pedro Rossello of the pro-statehood New Progressive Party has called it both a "plebiscite" and a "referendum." On the other hand, the Popular Democratic Party, which favors commonwealth, refers to it as an "opinion poll" or "consultation," implicitly downgrading its importance. Carlos Noriega Rodriguez, head of the Puerto Rico Bar Association, dismisses it as "a sterile exercise," while some independence supporters recently complained to the United Nations that the vote is "a colonial mechanism" and "an attempt at deception."
Every President since Truman has supported the notion of self-determination for Puerto Rico, but then again, the White House would only have to make a decision on Puerto Rico's status should Congress approve statehood. "Whatever they decide, I will support," Mr. Clinton said last month on "Larry King Live." "I think they, the people of Puerto Rico, should decide."
But exactly what constitutes "the people of Puerto Rico" is the subject of some debate. Mr. Rossello wants to limit participation to Puerto Ricans who live on the island. Both the commonwealth and independence parties argue, however, that the 2.6 million Puerto Ricans who live on the mainland, more than half of them in New York and vicinity, must also be granted voting rights if the result is to have any meaning.
 
San Juan or Timbuktu
 "We believe that Puerto Ricans are a nationality apart and distinct from the rest of the world," said Sen. Eudaldo Baez Galib, a commonwealth supporter. "It doesn't matter whether they live in San Juan, New York or Timbuktu."
Not surprisingly, many mainland Puerto Ricans also take that position.. "This is not an election for state assemblyman or to raise taxes," said Representative Jose Serrano of the Bronx, one of three Puerto Ricans in Congress. "This is a vote that may determine for all time the future of an entire people."
Puerto Ricans on the mainland "are as much Puerto Ricans as people on the island," he said. "Some of us were born on the mainland. Some of us came with our families. But all of us who live on the mainland do so as a result of the relationship between the United States and Puerto Rico, and we deserve to have our voices heard."
Opposition parties have a vested interest in that position because they believe that support for commonwealth and independence is even stronger among mainland Puerto Ricans than here on the island. Differences of class and race further cloud the issue: A slogan proclaims that "statehood is for the poor."
Mr. Rossello says the issue is a matter of residence, not nationality. Explaining why he intends to exclude Puerto Ricans on the mainland from the vote, he said, "You would not expect people born in California who now live in New York to get on a plane and go to California and vote in whatever referendums are decided there. That is not acceptable."
But Mr. Rossello and his party risk alienating mainland Puerto Ricans, who they expect to lead the charge for statehood in Congress after November. "Some of us are kind of ticked off by all of this," said Angelo Falcon, president of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy in New York. "How can the Government of Puerto Rico ask us to support them on the tax benefits program and then go back to Puerto Rico and draft a bill that does not allow us to vote? It makes us feel like the black sheep in the family."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Puerto Rico's Governor, Pedro J. Rossello, addressing a pro-statehood rally last month. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (92%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICAN DRYPERS CORP (85%); PUERTO RICAN AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (85%); PUERTO RICAN CEMENT CO INC (85%); PUERTO RICAN INSURANCE AGENCY INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; STATEHOOD (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); PETITIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



227 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Call It Baseball or Call It Business, It's Still Booming

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
AS the bids soared in the auction of the Baltimore Orioles baseball team last week in United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, one of the many lawyers in the standing-room-only courtroom smiled gleefully and said in a stage whisper, "Keep going, guys. I like it, I like it."
The lawyer happened to represent one of the Orioles' minority owners, Sargent Shriver, who profited handsomely from the winning $173 million bid. But in another sense, baseball profited, too. 
 The price tag, a record for an American sports team, caught the attention of fans and non-fans alike. The message they got was that baseball is not in danger of imminent demise, despite what they had been hearing from doom-sayers within the game itself.
Baseball has this internal problem: Some officials want to celebrate the positives -- the record number of people flocking to games, the excitement of the division races, the attractive young players. Others only seem to emphasize the negatives -- the high player salaries, the disparities in economic status among the 28 teams, the impending drop in television revenue.
Perhaps the real problem is that the major leagues don't have a commissioner to set the tone. They have played without one for 11 months since they forced Fay Vincent to resign. No replacement appears to be in sight yet.
But the game goes on. Entering the weekend, 47.5 million fans had attended major league games this season. That's a 22.5 percent increase from last season, and not all of it is attributable to the two new teams, the Colorado Rockies and the Florida Marlins. Even if their attendance were deducted and the old National League method of counting fans were used, attendance would still be up by 4.4 percent.
The Rockies have quickly developed into a phenomenon as awesome as the mountains they took their name from. They already have drawn 3.2 million fans and could entertain an additional 1.5 million, shattering the major league record of slightly more than 4 million the Toronto Blue Jays set last year.
The Blue Jays should surpass 4 million again, and five other teams are on a pace to reach the 3 million plateau. Never have more than three teams made it to 3 million. Furthermore, for only the fourth time ever, every team has reached 1 million.
Those fans have been treated to the performances of players like Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants, Ken Griffey Jr. of the Seattle Mariners, Juan Gonzalez of the Texas Rangers, Frank Thomas of the Chicago White Sox and Albert Belle of the Cleveland Indians. They have seen Bonds and a new owner, Peter Magowan, resuscitate the Giants into an exciting first-place team, the Philadelphia Phillies go from worst in their division to first in it, John Olerud of the Blue Jays and Andres Galarraga of the Rockies threaten to become the first since Ted Williams in 1941 to hit .400, Griffey hit home runs in eight consecutive games and tie a record.
They have even seen a revival of the Yankees in the Bronx, which George Steinbrenner is threatening to abandon. Last week's four-game series with the Blue Jays at Yankee Stadium attracted a total of 192,000 fans, showing that when a team plays games that count, fans will come, even to a stadium in the Bronx.
"There's no question baseball's picture is rosier than what some people are trying to paint," said Donald Fehr, head of the players' union and chief skeptic of the gloom-and-doom view of the game. "That doesn't mean it's free from troubles, but you don't see an industry in imminent danger of financial collapse -- which is what some of them like to picture. We always say: watch their actions, not their words."
Richard Ravitch, chief labor executive for the club owners, has painted the bleakest picture, using it to support his effort to increase revenue sharing among the owners and get players' salaries capped.
"We are losing a competitive position for the entertainment dollar," Ravitch said. "Television revenues are coming down. There is great disparity between the clubs." As for the $173 million purchase of the Orioles, he said: "That's what the market says the Orioles are worth. It doesn't say anything about the value of the other 27 clubs."
No team, however, has sold for less than its previous sale price. No team has languished without a buyer.
If baseball officials want to look for a potential problem, they could glance at their labor relations. Management is insisting that it won't happen, but players are discussing with increasing seriousness the possibility of striking next month.
The owners meet at a resort in Wisconsin this week to try to agree on a plan for more revenue sharing. It would be contingent on the players' accepting a salary cap. The players, who want no part of that, feel they may have to stage a pre-emptive strike, threatening the owners' hefty post-season television payoff and preventing them from changing the work rules during the winter or locking them out of training camps next spring.
The fans, though, aren't thinking about the season ending prematurely; like the players in a pennant race, they're taking it one game at a time.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (93%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES BALTIMORE ORIOLES (93%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (52%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES BASEBALL (93%); LAWYERS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); SPORTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY ROBERT SARGENT SHRIVER (57%); FAY VINCENT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



228 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Even Castro Sees the Possibilities of Enterprise in Cuba

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
WHILE debate heats up in the United States over the wisdom of continuing to turn a cold shoulder toward President Fidel Castro, a consensus is growing among American business executives and academics that major changes are inevitable in Cuba, ones likely to transform the island into a lucrative new business frontier.
Many of the executives and scholars say Cuba's badly wasting economy will soon be cast open one way or another, be it through the continued crumbling and eventual collapse of Mr. Castro's Communist system or through some kind of constructive engagement initiated by the United States to encourage faster reforms. The latter course is being urged on the Clinton Administration with increasing forcefulness by advocates of a new approach toward the island after 33 years of economic embargo and political ostracism. 
 Forced to introduce limited reforms by near-disastrous economic conditions brought on in large part by the collapse of his Soviet bloc benefactors, Mr. Castro has already begun welcoming mixed ventures with Western companies. More boldly, though, the Cuban leader has recently allowed citizens to spend dollars and other foreign currencies legally for the first time -- both a recognition of the power of the black market and an attempt to dry it up. Meanwhile, he has invited Cuban-Americans to visit the island in much greater numbers in the hope that their free-spending ways will provide a boost. Many expect the next step to be greater freedom for individual Cubans to engage in private enterprise legally.
American policy-makers are debating whether encouraging such reforms would promote an orderly transition from the Communist order, as opposed to its catastrophic collapse, which might place an economic rebirth through capitalism out of reach for a long time. The voices arguing for a diplomatic opening are gaining force, but the Clinton Administration seems in no rush to pronounce itself on such a controversial topic, having only recently assembled its Latin American foreign policy staff after a long interregnum tended by Bush Administration holdovers. In the meantime, conservatives in the Cuban exile community and their allies in Congress stand as committed to a hard-line approach as ever.
Still, prospective investors have quietly begun sizing up the opportunities for American capital.
In the short term, the fast-expanding Cuban tourism industry, exploiting the island's readily accessible natural beauty, would appear to offer the safest bet for new American investments, along with basic industries like public transportation and food. Beyond those, the Cuban economy presents a long list of needs waiting to be filled by longer-term investments in areas from housing to manufacturing.
Many of the best deals, however, are already being locked up by competitors in Europe, Canada, Mexico and Jamaica.
 
Plums Already Plucked
 "Almost all of the hotels in Havana are already gone," said Arlene Alligood, a Washington-based consultant who publishes the newsletter Cuba Business. She noted a Spanish company's recent takeover of the former Havana Hilton. "Once the major investments are taken, they are taken for a generation or more. American companies are going to wake up and find themselves at a disastrous disadvantage."
If many plums have already been plucked by European and Canadian interests, the scope of Cuba's needs and its proximity to the United States would present both countries with an unusually rich blend of opportunities. A recent study by Johns Hopkins University estimated that the United States could expect to do $2 billion in business with Cuba in the first year of an economic opening, a figure that could rapidly rise to $7 billion annually or more.
"You are talking about a semi-industrialized country of 11 million people that is 90 miles away from Florida and that desperately needs to be brought into the 21st century," said Joseph Strain, chief of the Jacksonville Port Authority, who has visited Cuba twice to scout opportunities there. "That means rebuilding railroads, phone systems, electrical systems, you name it. We are talking about hundreds of millions of dollars of merchandise."
Mr. Strain said that an opening of the Cuban market to American commerce would mean that the rate of growth of Florida's ports in terms of the value of goods handled would easily double.
Experts say there would be other important opportunities beyond commerce -- for example, insuring the safety of Cuba's nuclear energy program. The United States has expressed concerns about a half-built Soviet-designed nuclear power plant at Cienfuegos, which the Cuban Government says it is committed to completing to alleviate severe energy shortages. Strapped for capital and hard-pressed to proceed alone, however, it has also said it would welcome American participation in the plant's management; that would help to guarantee that international safety standards are stringently observed.
Similarly, American companies could help market Cuban-designed pharmaceutical goods currently unavailable in the United States, from meningitis and hepatitis vaccines to livestock drugs. Although Cuba invested large sums to develop selected pharmaceuticals, it now lacks the wherewithal to distribute them abroad effectively.
Experts on Cuba caution that a simple ending of sanctions would not alone produce miracles, and in any case the United States is unlikely to lift the embargo imposed in 1960 by President Eisenhower without conditions.
For Cuba to take full advantage of any such easing of American policy, they say, it would have to introduce far more sweeping changes, all involving much larger political gambles than the Cuban Government has so far shown itself willing to take. Herein, for those urging a more supple approach, lies the logic of engaging Cuba now on trade.
Analysts of Cuban affairs point out that the country is prevented from buying most of the goods it needs not by American sanctions but by the island's own collapsing production and lack of cash.
"The Cubans would quickly be forced to admit that most of their problems do not stem from the embargo at all," said Jorge Dominguez, a Harvard University scholar who specializes in Cuban affairs. "Then it quickly becomes a blunt question for the Cuban Government of all of the changes they would need to undertake to begin attracting the kind of capital the country needs.
"Doing something like this would be a bold political risk in the American context, but it would produce a Cuba very different from anything we have ever seen: something that looks and feels like a market economy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cuba's devasted economy has resulted in a shortage of fuel, forcing many to commute by bicycle. (Julio Etchart/Impact Visuals); Cubans peering into a dollars-only tourist store in Havana. Citizens can now legally spend foreign currencies. (Associated Press); A mural of Che Guevara, the late Cuban revolutionary hero, is intact but fading. (Bill Gentile/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TRENDS (73%); LODGING (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: ;FRENCH, HOWARD W; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



229 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
How Success Spoiled the European Currency System

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
FRANCE and Germany haven't quite called off their planned economic marriage, but the relationship is on the rocks. Last week, Europe's finance ministers announced that they had all but abandoned their 14-year-old plan to limit the fluctuations among the Continent's major currencies.
The arrangement had limited currency variations to 2.5 percent above or below levels set in 1987. The idea was to stabilize the value of everyone's money so there can ultimately be a single European currency. But in recent weeks currency markets kept pushing the French franc down and the German mark up too hard for central banks to resist. So the governments retreated and allowed fluctuation of as much as 15 percent. 
 Next, they blamed the neighbors. A former French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas, said "Anglo-Saxon" speculators -- a reference to British and American currency traders -- had undermined Europe's aspirations. "You have to look at who profits from the crime," he said.
It is certainly true that many British and American traders profited handsomely betting that Europe would fail to keep exchange rates within a narrow range. But so did many traders on the Continent and in Asia.
Nor are non-Anglo-Saxons particularly picked on. Last September, as the British Government was said to be pouring half its $30 billion foreign currency reserve into defending the pound, George Soros, a Hungarian-American speculator, reportedly made $1 billion selling the pound short.
But the billions risked by Mr. Soros and other short-term traders are only the froth atop far greater global waves of capital. Thanks to technology and deregulation, $1 trillion in currency is exchanged every day, more than triple the level of 1986. The pension funds of American workers now have $150 billion invested overseas, 20 times the level of a decade ago. Everyone from Japanese insurance companies to American mutual funds is scouring the world for investments. And before one of these funds can buy a French stock or a German bond, it must first buy francs or marks.
"Everyone talks about the global village, but the currency market is the real global village," said Ronald Layard-Leishing, head of research for Parato Partners, a London currency manager.
 
But That Was the Plan
 The central irony of this crisis is that a principal goal in establishing the system of semi-fixed rates was to encourage just this free flow of money. The flow gives businesses access to the widest range of investors and thus should lower their cost of capital, spurring growth. But it also means that investment can leave as easily as it came.
"The European central banks are the victims of their own success," said Adam M. Greshin, who manages $4 billion in international bonds for mutual funds and pension funds at Scudder Stevens & Clark. "They convinced investors that Europe was a place worthy of their investment. But when the system slowly caved in, global investors took their money elsewhere." Since March, he said, Scudder has been selling both the mark and the franc to buy dollars.
The crux of the problem can be traced to German reunification. By issuing West German marks for East German marks, Germany increased its money supply, fueling inflation. Because of Germany's hyper-inflation between the world wars, the Bundesbank has long had a strict charter to fight inflation. To do so, it has kept interest rates high.
Meanwhile, Europe went into a deep recession. That would normally prod governments to lower interest rates in order to encourage businesses and consumers to borrow and spend more. But the system of semi-fixed rates prevented them from doing this. If France lowered rates, investors would sell French investments to earn the higher interest in Germany, pushing up the price of marks. This is routine for currencies like the dollar and the yen, which float freely, but the European governments had committed themselves not to let their currencies fluctuate more than 2.5 percent.
To nearly every investor watching this situation, it was clear that domestic political pressure would force France to lower rates. Thus either Germany would lower its rates too, or the system would collapse.
This would hurt any investor in European bonds, many of which offered 1.5 to 3 percentage points more interest than American bonds. So investors protected themselves with two-part trades. They would, for example, buy French bonds and simultaneously "short" francs (in effect, selling the francs they hadn't yet collected in interest and principal on their bonds). You short (selling even though you're "short" the item) by agreeing today to sell francs some weeks from now for an agreed amount of another currency.
These two positions combined would benefit from falling interest rates (if you bought yesterday's bond paying 5 percent and today's bonds are paying 4 percent, you're smart) but would not be hurt by falling exchange rates (you already sold the francs you're collecting, perhaps for yen, so you're smarter).
This is a conservative strategy meant to reduce the risks for pensioners and mutual fund investors. Yet it involves the same trade used by the big-time speculators -- selling the franc short.
"George Soros can make a lot of money in a short period of time with a lot of risk," said Judy M. Pagliuca, a manager of portfolios for Fidelity Investments, the giant mutual fund company. "We use the same idea to make smaller amounts of money in a longer period."
Indeed, it was only because there was a consensus among long-term investors that the short-term traders could feel confident enough to take large positions. They saw huge pools of money betting exchange rates would go lower pitted against central banks committed to defending the set rates. They moved. The central banks lost, expensively.
Now, with a 15 percent margin of fluctuation, the battle between the central banks and the speculators is more evenly matched. Government traders have more leeway over when to intervene, and central banks like the Federal Reserve find that intervention works better when it's unexpected.
"Speculation has been made markedly riskier," said Helmut Schlesinger, the Bundesbank's president.
Now the governments of France, Germany and the rest of Europe have to decide if they are ready for a real marriage -- one checkbook, one savings account, one set of Continent-wide inflation and unemployment measures, a little sacrifice of economic autonomy for the sake of the relationship. If not, it wouldn't be the first engagement to be broken off because of money.
 
Why Currencies Float -- And Policies May Wash Away

Gold Standards, Floating Rates
And Fixed Ones
 Currencies were once linked to gold; that is, the U.S. Government would pay a dollar's worth of gold to any government that turned in a paper dollar.
After World War II, most countries agreed to fixed exchange rates: the British, for example, might guarantee that they would pay five U.S. dollars or 25 French francs to anyone redeeming a pound note.
In the 1970's, currencies were allowed to "float," like the price of oil or wheat. If many people suddenly want German marks, for example, the price of a mark -- in dollars, yen or francs -- will rise. However, Europe is now working toward a single money, so its currencies are semi-fixed. Central banks intervene to try to keep them within a narrow range. When everyone is dumping francs, for example, they buy. This can be expensive.
 
 
Why Trade Currencies?
To Pay for Imports When an American buys cameras from Japan, the Japanese camera maker must eventually be paid in yen (the currency he pays his employees in). When Japanese cameras are popular, more people must buy yen, so the price of yen relative to dollars goes up.
 
To Take Profits Home A McDonald's in Britain or a Disneyland in France takes in pounds or francs. Eventually, they must buy dollars, and will try to make money doing so.
 
Because Interest Rates Look Good If Germany's interest rates are high, American investors earning less than 3 percent on their money market accounts will buy German bonds or stocks, meaning they own marks. Mutual funds, pension funds and other huge pools of cash make such investments.
 
Out of Fear If investors think a country is politically threatened, they may move their money someplace like Switzerland, pushing up the Swiss franc. If they think a country will suffer from inflation (like Italy), they will protect their purchasing power by buying the currencies of more stable economies (like Japan or Germany).
 
 
How a Currency Can Plummet
 Generally, currencies rise or fall with a country's inflation rates, trade balances and other long-term factors.
Expectations spice this stew. When a change appears imminent, speculators may move in. For example, if it appears that the Bundesbank will not lower its interest rates to keep money from flowing into Germany, they may buy marks on the assumption that more investment money will indeed go to Germany. (The Bundesbank may WANT more money in Germany, but the British, French and American Governments may be pressuring Germany to be a good neighbor.)
If the franc drops too much against the mark, the Bank of France and Bundesbank can sell other currencies and buy francs, trying to push the price up. They can also change interest rates, but at a political cost.
But as a practical matter, governments can only slow things down. Speculators may trigger a rush out of a currency, but corporations, mutual funds, pension funds and banks seeking to avoid losses will sell, too, overwhelming the stabilization effort. For obvious political reasons, central bankers cannot forever commit billions of taxpayers' money to pay 20 cents for francs that soon might be worth 19 cents.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INSURANCE (70%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



230 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE: The Overview;
REJOICING IS MUTED FOR THE PRESIDENT IN BUDGET VICTORY

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7

 BODY:
While flush with triumph after Congressional passage of his five-year economic plan, President Clinton was careful today to claim the narrow, bruising victory as no more than a first step toward setting the economy on a more prudent course.
Having won over skeptical Democrats only by promising to put together another package of spending cuts by fall, Mr. Clinton and his aides faced a morning-after prospect of having to return once more to the politically hazardous occupation of singling out victims of the budget knife. 
 White House aides have refused to say how broad those cuts might be, although they say privately that they have identified $5 billion to $10 billion that could be stripped from current appropriations bills. But promises made to Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat who provided the crucial vote Friday night, and others have increased the burden on a review by Vice President Al Gore due next month that was to have focused on "re-inventing Government."
 
Big Battle Ahead
 Mr. Clinton must also find a way to muster support for his still-unannounced plan to overhaul the health care system. While Mr. Clinton regards that initiative as central to the task of restraining Government spending and cutting the deficit, the package is certain to include an unspecified number of new tax increases, forcing a return to the unpopular subject that nearly sank his budget proposal.
"Our work is far from finished," the President said today in his weekly radio address, issuing both a pledge and an apologia. He said his Administration would "continue to look for ways to further cut unnecessary spending and trim waste." And he vowed, "On that front we will remain tireless, responsible and accountable to you."
 
Uncertainty About Cuts
 The cautious appraisal reflected a White House recognition of how many hurdles lie ahead. Even after a tie-breaking Senate vote gave the final go-ahead to the $496 billion deficit-reduction package, White House aides were heading back to work in a special "war room" in a renewed bid to overcome public antipathy to the tax increases and spending cuts.
After striking a deal with House leaders this week, Mr. Clinton promised that the report by Mr. Gore would include "a myriad of exciting possibilities" for reducing Government spending.
But it is not at all clear what kinds of additional programs the White House might be willing to cut. Of the more than $250 billion in spending reductions it won over the next five years, the bulk came from cutting military spending and putting limits on how much Medicare spending can rise. Neither Congress nor the White House has shown much willingness to venture further along those lines.
And while the promises of more cuts may have been intended to give Democrats political cover, the public scolding of Mr. Clinton by Mr. Kerrey and others from the Senate floor on Friday night suggested that they may well hold him to account for not having done more to "cut spending first," as Republicans had urged.
Mr. Kerrey announced his reluctant support for the package only in an exceedingly blunt speech in which he demanded that the President "get back on the high road" and move off "the low road of the too-easy compromise or the too-early collapse." Mr. Clinton was watching the speech from his residence in the White House, and some aides suggested today that he had been stung by the Senator's words.
 
An Unstable Consensus
 But Mr. Clinton's communications director, Mark D. Gearan, carefully described Mr. Kerrey's remarks as "a thoughtful statement" that the President was taking seriously. "Many people are frustrated with the process," he said in acknowledgement of the shallowness of Democratic support for Mr. Clinton's package.
That frustration is reflected in polls showing a broad, general preference for spending cuts over tax increases, which comprise the other half of Mr. Clinton's deficit reduction package. But that consensus breaks down when voters are asked what services they could do without, and the dilemma the White House faces is to find a better way of satisfying the broad sentiment without igniting narrower hostilities.
Even as the White House began to plot the weeks ahead, however, Mr. Clinton and his advisers were clearly in a mood today to savor the moment.
After a nighttime celebration where aides wore T-shirts emblazoned in red with the word victory, Mr. Clinton began his radio address this morning by seeing in Washington's sunny summer skies a metaphor for his triumph.
"The political fog that has surrounded this town for so long is at long last lifting," Mr. Clinton declared. He praised the courage of the House and Senate and said their approval of his plan "plants us firmly on the path to getting so many good things done for our people."
 
Mockery From Republican
 While Mr. Clinton spent much of the rest of the day on the golf course, aides sought to make the festivity contagious. They said the President would travel to Charleston, W.Va., on Monday for a celebratory rally, and would begin an extended trip later in the week with stops in the Midwest, Colorado and California.
Mr. Clinton filled his foursome with three Democratic legislators who voted for his package, Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin and Representatives Pat Williams of Montana and John Tanner of Tennessee. The White House press secretary, Dee Dee Myers, described her boss as "very happy, kind of giddy."
But the White House faced a reminder of its plight in remarks today from Representative Jim Ross Lightfoot of Iowa, who delivered the Republican response to Mr. Clinton's address. Calling attention to House and Senate approval of the package by the narrowest of votes, Mr. Lightfoot mocked the President for claiming a mandate in the passage of a package "by a margin of three-tenths of one percent."
For a time, it had appeared that the margin might even be negative. Mr. Kerrey today told The Washington Post that he had told the President in an angry telephone conversation on Thursday that he would vote against the package.
Mr. Kerrey said that Mr. Clinton had responded angrily that his Presidency was at stake. "He shouted at me," Mr. Kerrey told The Post. "I shouted at him." The two men then hung up on each other, he said.
Mr. Kerrey said that he had changed his mind after long meetings with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, an old friend and supporter.
Mr. Kerrey's vote was vital because all 44 Republicans in the Senate voted against the bill along with six Democrats, Senators David L. Boren of Oklahoma, Richard H. Bryan of Nevada, J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, Sam Nunn of Georgia and Richard C. Shelby of Alabama.
A senior White House official insisted, however, that the White House had never truly doubted that Mr. Kerrey would come around.
Even before the vote, Roger Altman, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, said the White House operation to rally support for the plan would remain open to defend the plan against damaging Republican criticism.
In particular, the White House is hoping to create a backlash among middle-class voters who may have been led by Republican criticism to believe that Mr. Clinton's proposal would raise their income tax rates. In fact, income taxes will increase only for the very wealthy and some affluent retirees.
But Clinton aides also acknowledged that their battle to transform the plan from political liability to benefit was likely in the end to depend on the performance of the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); RADIO CONTUSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); KERREY, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



231 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17
 
IN WESTERN EUROPE, GLOOM 

Four years after the Berlin wall crumbled and an era of freedom and prosperity was proclaimed, Western Europe is burdened by gloom. 1
 
Europeans fear "many Yugoslavias" unless there are changes. 17
 
SOVIET HISTORY, BIDDING AT . . .
 
Hard-currency auction at Sotheby's: ranging from hundreds of artifacts of the only triumphal chapter of Bolshevism to a well-charred space capsule built for three. 1
 
President Yeltsin sought help to contain fighting in Tajikistan. 17
 
QUEST FOR CORAL, AND THE COSTS
 
In Sri Lanka, and around the Indian Ocean, ecosystems are damaged as people exploit coral, and the Government says 80 percent of the island's reefs have been damaged. 3
 
A SERBIAN COMMANDER'S SURETY
 
The Bosnian Serb military commander, Lieut. Gen. Ratko Mladic, personally commanded a helicopter-borne assault on a Bosnian Army stronghold atop a key mountain.14
 
Serbs were said to be consolidating positions on a strategic peak. 14
 
Washington said it would get United Nations approval for air strikes. 15
 
National 20-36
 
CLINTON'S FIRST STEP
 
Though flush with triumph after passage of his economic plan, President Clinton was careful to claim the narrow, bruising victory as no more than a first step. 1
 
Clinton scraped together a victory. Now comes the scary part. 22
 
Many wonder if the budget will help or hurt the economy. 22
 
How the Senate voted in the roll-call vote on the budget. 23
 
CRATERS IN TAX LANDSCAPE
 
Call it fair or folly, but the new budget's tectonic shift in tax rates will prove to be an upheaval in the tax landscape's complexity. 1
 
HISTORY WRIT WITH BROOMS
 
Hidden in the unconscious design of grassless clay yards swept with dogwood brooms are traces of West Africa and the emergence of hard-won black independence. 1
 
TWISTER FROM NOWHERE
 
No warning was issued before a tornado killed four people and injured 190 in the Petersburg, Va., area because it was not spotted visually and an updated radar system had not been installed. 20
 
TRIAL'S INCIDENTAL REVELATIONS
 
A trial to determine the fate of a 14-year-old girl switched at birth with another infant is shedding light on the character of the woman who gave birth to her and the man she now calls her father. 20
 
HARASSMENT CHARGED AT N.I.H.
 
The man in charge of investigating misconduct in science for the Federal Government has been accused of sexually harassing an office manager. 30
 
UNIONS WANT CLINTON'S EAR
 
Unions say any Clinton effort to achieve high-performance workplaces will not succeed without them. 32
 
HARD TIMES GET HARDER
 
The struggle to make ends meet gets harder as the Midwest flood waters recede to reveal the damage to a trailer park. 26
 
A former Detroit officer admits hitting a drug suspect. 35
 
Metro 37-48
 
DIAGNOSING AIDS IN CHILDREN
 
An effort in New York State to identify and quickly treat children infected with H.I.V. has led to a struggle over how to reconcile the health needs of the children with the right to privacy of their mothers. 1
 
DROUGHT'S TOLL
 
Across much of the New York metropolitan region, the talk of the summer of 1993 has centered on the sustained heat. But in much of the area, the bigger weather story has been the lack of rain. 41
 
VIOLENT DEATHS OF GAY MEN
 
Investigators are sorting through the strands of five lives to determine whether their violent deaths were linked. In gruesome finds dating to May 1991, each body was found hacked up in garbage bags. 37
 
FABRICATED ASBESTOS TESTS
 
Investigators say the asbestos tests for more than one-third of New York City's schools were fabrications and that the required inspections of those schools never occurred. 37
 
In Bensonhurst, tension between emigres and Italians. 39
 
Tale in court of subway clash between youth and the police. 39
 
The water in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, is found free of bacteria. 39
 
A Brooklyn youth finds a niche through the Fresh Air Fund. 44
 
Obituaries 46-47
 
James W. Owles, founding president of the Gay Activists Alliance. 46
 
Milton O. Thompson, an engineer and a test pilot. 47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (67%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (74%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (67%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TORNADOES (75%); ARMIES (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); CONTUSIONS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); MISCONDUCT (68%); APPROVALS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (55%); RADAR SYSTEMS (50%); TRAILER PARKS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



232 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2948 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE;
Wealthy or Not, Taxpayers Will Find Plenty of Surprises

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7

 BODY:
The Democrats have said, correctly, that the new law raises taxes mainly on the wealthy. But many people who are not wealthy will be affected by the tax increases, some in ways that have been widely heralded, but others in ways that may come as a surprise.
Gasoline taxes are going up; so are taxes on many people's Social Security benefits. Anyone who moves for a new job might lose certain deductions of expenses, whether he is Croesus or Cratchit. 
 Others who may be affected by the changes in the new law include employees who take classes paid for by their employers, people who make contributions to their colleges or to other charities and grandparents and others who set up trusts for children.
 
Refiling May Be an Option
 Tax specialists advise that even people who think they will not be touched by the new tax law because they are not wealthy should study the provisions carefully. In fact, some people may want to refile their tax returns for 1992 because the new law deals retroactively with certain areas, like the treatment of tuition assistance and low-income housing credits.
"Everybody should review their personal financial planning, their investment asset mix, and their estate planning," said Andre Fogarasi, the managing director of the Federal tax service at Arthur Andersen, the big accounting firm, in Washington.
The consequence of these tectonic shifts in personal taxation -- call it fairness, or call it folly -- is an inevitable upheaval in the complexity of the tax landscape.
"This is a massive step backward from simplicity," said David Berenson, the managing partner of Berenson & Company, as the Senate writhed along its parliamentary path toward enacting President Clinton's tax program on Friday night. "What is simple will never be perceived as fair. And what they perceive as fair will never be simple."
For a few years in the late 1980's, when taxes were lower and simpler, virtually every couple in the country making more than $30,000 in taxable income paid taxes at the same marginal rate: 28 percent.
It did not last long. A new 31 percent tax bracket arrived in 1991. And now comes the new tax bill, with added marginal rates of 36 percent, 39.6 percent and even a bit higher for people earning hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
The changes in the income tax rates are retroactive to Jan. 1, 1993. The changes in the taxation of Social Security benefits and in the application of the Medicare payroll tax take effect next Jan. 1.
The big increases in income tax rates that raise most of the money in this bill affect only the well-off. Under current law, the top statutory rate of 31 percent applies to single people earning more than $53,500, and couples earning more than $89,150 in taxable income. The new law creates a 36 percent tax rate on taxable income above $115,000 (single) and $140,000 (married). When income exceeds $250,000, for either singles or couples, it will be taxed at 39.6 percent.
And changes in the Medicare taxes, along with the continuing effects of the way deductions and exemptions are treated at upper incomes, mean tax rates at the top can go as high as 44 percent in some cases.
That does not mean that someone earning $300,000 must fork over 40 percent of it to the Internal Revenue Service. The percentage figures are marginal tax rates. The term "marginal" means, for example, that someone in the 36 percent bracket must pay $360 on every additional $1,000 earned over the figure at which that tax bracket begins; Someone in the 39.6 percent bracket would have to pay $396 on every additional $1,000 earned. But people do not pay their marginal tax rate on their entire income; for most people, the bulk of the income is taxed at lower rates.
Even so, it is at the margins that tax laws exert their most powerful leverage on financial behavior. This is true whether one is a millionaire deciding to give tens of thousands of dollars to a charity, or a Social Security recipient deciding whether to rearrange a nest egg.
 
More Complications For Social Security
 Some of the most complicated parts of the new tax bill are those applying to Social Security recipients. The bill will make subject to income tax up to 85 percent of the Social Security benefits of relatively affluent taxpayers. Calculating the tax is complicated enough; figuring out strategies to avoid it can be even trickier.
Social Security beneficiaries must include in taxable income a portion of their benefits if their "provisional income" exceeds certain thresholds. Provisional income is defined as the sum of an individual's adjusted gross income, tax-exempt interest, certain foreign-source income and half of the taxpayer's Social Security benefit.
Under the present law, 50 percent of the benefits are taxed at the person's ordinary rate if the provisional income is more than $25,000 for a single person, or $32,000 per couple. Under the new law, up to 85 percent can be taxed if the provisional income exceeds $34,000 for a single person, or $44,000 for a couple.
How much of the benefit would be taxed? No more than 85 percent, and possibly less. The formula is so complicated that the I.R.S. will have to publish a new worksheet to help taxpayers figure it out. Arthur Andersen figured that a single taxpayer with a provisional income of $36,000 and Social Security benefits of $8,000 would have to pay taxes on $5,700 of the benefits. Under the old law, $4,000 would have been taxable. Such a person is likely to be in the 28 percent tax bracket, so the tax increase amounts to 28 percent of $1,700, or $476.
 
Low-Wage Earners Get a Bigger Credit
 One of the major changes in the bill is the big expansion of the earned income tax credit, which bolsters the income of eligible low-income workers. Its inclusion in the budget, along with an expansion of the food stamp program, keeps the President's campaign promise that, at least for a family with two children, nobody who works full time should live in poverty.
The tax credit, which reduces the taxes of those who owe them and is refunded as a direct payment to those who make too little to owe taxes, can be claimed at the end of the year or can be included in every paycheck by employers.
The credit is bigger for people with two or more children than for people with only one child. But for the first time, some people with no children will qualify for modest credits under the new law.
This year, under the present law, taxpayers with more than one child can claim a credit of up to 18.5 percent of the first $7,750 they earn. The credit dwindles as income rises beyond that point. The maximum credit is $1,511.
Next year, for taxpayers with two or more children, the credit is 30 percent of the first $8,425 earned. The maximum credit will be $2,527, and it is phased out when income rises above $11,000 a year.
The credit will rise even higher, hitting 36 percent in 1995 and 40 percent in 1996. At that point, the working poor will be rewarded by the tax code for earning income at just about the marginal rate at which the wealthiest workers are taxed on their income.
 
Capital Gains Taxes Remain Unchanged
 Elsewhere in the tax bill, things are changing more subtly. Capital gains taxes, for example, are not being changed. Property and stocks sold at a profit will be taxed at no more than the current 28 percent.
What has changed is the attractiveness of such investments, because this tax rate is so much lower than the top rate on income.
And that has meant that the law had to be tightened to prevent people from structuring investments to make ordinary income, like interest, look like capital gains. Financial maneuvers such as straddles, involving the purchase and sale of futures contracts, have been ruled out, and the Treasury has been given the authority to write future regulations to rule out yet undiscovered gimmicks.
Another change limits the deduction for interest expenses for people who borrow money to make investments. Interest can still be deducted from investment income, but not from net capital gains. The change is intended to prevent people from deducting interest expenses at up to a 39.6 marginal tax rate against capital gains that are taxed at a lower rate.
 
Alternative Rates Will Be Increased
 And there are changes in the alternative minimum tax, known as the A.M.T., the method of calculating tax bills that is meant to prevent people from taking so many deductions that they pay little or no tax.
The new alternative minimum tax rates for individuals is 26 percent on income up to $175,000, and 28 percent thereafter. It sounds attractive, but it is not: Income is defined differently for the A.M.T., and taxpayers generally try to avoid it.
The combination of higher A.M.T. rates for all, combined with higher regular tax rates on higher incomes, will in effect mean that the A.M.T. can now trap some upper-middle class people who never had to worry about it before. Tax and investment decisions, such as exercising incentive stock options, will have to be considered carefully as a result.
Indeed, the one thing to remember about the new law, said Mr. Fogarasi of Arthur Andersen, is the need for careful planning, not just year by year but over a lifetime.
 
Estate and Trust Rates Are Revamped
 For example, the law has changed for estates and certain trusts.
Lower inheritance tax rates that had taken effect just this year for large estates have been revoked retroactively, a rude surprise for some heirs of people who died in the last seven months. The top rates are not 50 percent, but 53 percent on estates of more than $2.5 million, and 55 percent on estates of more than $3 million.
And there are new tax brackets for income-retaining trusts, a widely used mechanism under which some parents and grandparents set aside money for the future use of younger generations. Experts say the changes have all but wiped out the utility of these trusts, and that the trustees for those that have already been set up must look carefully to see how best to manage them under the new regime, which applies higher taxes to much lower earnings within the trusts.
 
Several Revisions For Small Businesses
 There are important changes in the law for people who own small businesses. For one, sole proprietors and others who pay taxes on business income at personal tax rates can now be taxed at considerably higher rates than corporations. Some of them might consider changing the structures of their businesses, although that can subject them to double taxation: once as a corporation and again as a shareholder or employee.
Those who pay for their own medical insurance through a business will be relieved by the retroactive restoration of the deduction for a portion of insurance premiums, which had lapsed in 1992. Of course, this, like several other provisions of the law, makes it necessary for some people to file amended returns for last year.
Small-business owners will also feel the change in the deductibility of business meals and entertainment. It used to be that 80 percent of such expenses were deductible; now it is only 50 percent.
And taking a spouse on a business trip is harder to justify under the new law. Expenses for this used to be deductible if there was a good business reason for taking the spouse. Now a spouse must also be a bona fide employee of the person or business paying the expenses.
 
Wider Tax Break For Real Estate
 For people in the real estate business, there is a considerable expansion of one of the tax breaks eliminated in 1986 -- the passive loss rules.
Starting next year, eligible taxpayers who actively participate in the business of renting out properties will be able to deduct rental losses from other sources of income, such as wages or unrelated businesses. To be eligible, the taxpayer must work mainly in real estate, at least 750 hours a year, and if that work is performed as an employee, the taxpayer must own at least a 5 percent share in the employer's business.
But for a lawyer involved heavily in real estate work, for example, who owns, rents out and actively manages an investment property, if the rent on the property does not cover its mortgage, the difference can be deducted from the lawyer's other income.
There is also a new incentive for people to buy into certain small businesses. For those who buy newly issued stock and hold it for five years, half of any capital gain will be untaxed. But the gain cannot exceed 10 times the original price, or $10 million, and the gain cannot be reduced by any capital losses. Furthermore, the exclusion of the capital gains taxes might trigger the alternative minimum tax, and most experts consider this tax break to have limited appeal.
 
Big Earners to Face More Restrictions
 Highly paid business executives face other complications under the new law. For example, there are restrictions on the ability of publicly held corporations to deduct from income the salaries of executives paid more than $1 million, unless the pay is linked to performance.
And highly paid executives with employer retirement plans, as well as self employed people with tax-deferred Keogh retirement plans, might lose some tax benefits of contributions.
This year, a person making $300,000 who participates in a pension plan that allows contributions of up to 10 percent of salary can make a contribution of only $23,584, because current law allows contributions only on the basis of income up to $235,840.
The new law, however, will allow contributions to such a plan only on the basis of income up to $150,000. That means the 1994 set-aside can be only $15,000. Many companies will find other ways of making up contributions to pension plans, but the tax advantages for the employee might not be so great.
On a lesser scale, a crackdown on dues at private clubs will affect some taxpayers, who will not be allowed to deduct the dues even if the club is used principally for business related activities. On the other hand, an employer may deduct the cost of dues to the extent that they are treated as compensation. And activities at the club, such as the cost of meals, remain deductible to the same extent as any other meal and entertainment expenses.
 
Rules Are Broadened On Charity and Gifts
 The tax bill introduces, restores and expands several kinds of tax breaks, and among the greatest of these is charity.
Philanthropic gifts have been tax deductible all along. But it is even more advantageous for the wealthy to give now that the after-tax cost of gifts is just 60 cents on the dollar for those in the highest marginal tax bracket.
There has been another important change in the law, however, that makes it easier than in recent years to make gifts of property that has increased in value over the years. These gifts can be deducted at present market value even though the taxpayer never paid that much for them, and the gifts do not incur any capital gains tax.
Under the new law, this kind of transaction can no longer trigger the punishing alternative minimum tax. And the provisions have been expanded to include not only property like paintings, but so-called intangibles, such as stocks or even royalty rights.
For gifts of tangible property such as paintings, the law is retroactive, so no alternate minimum tax will result from gifts made since June 1992.
All it takes is a little paperwork, under the new rules that tighten the substantiation and disclosure of charitable contributions. The Internal Revenue Service has also been ordered to develop a method for taxpayers to agree in advance of making a charitable donation with the I.R.S. on the value of a painting or other property, so there will be no disputes.
 
Luxury Tax Struck; Moving Breaks Cut
 Another change in the law, the repeal of the luxury tax on jewelry, boats, airplanes, and furs, is good news, and not just for the people who make and sell these items or those who plan to buy them. The repeal was made retroactive, so someone who bought, for example, a $20,000 fur coat in February can ask the retailer for a rebate of the $1,000 excise tax that should have been collected at the time. The retailer, in turn, can get a refund from the Government.
Another benefit that has been restored could prompt thousands of taxpayers to file amended tax returns. Among several tax breaks that expired in the middle of last year was the one making employer-provided education assistance, such as tuition payments under qualified plans, tax free. Since then, employees have been required to report tuition payments as income, and pay tax on them.
The new law restores the tax break back to June 1992. Companies that give aid to employees this year can stop withholding taxes on it. But to make it appear less costly in the five-year budget, Congress extended the benefit only through the end of 1994, when presumably it will be renewed again.
But for anybody who is moving to a new job, there is a shrinking tax break. In general, expenses related to a work-related move are deductible. But under the new law, you have to move at least 50 miles; it used to be just 35. And the costs of meals, temporary lodging near the new job and house-hunting trips will no longer be allowed as deductions. Nor will you be able to deduct the costs, such as fees paid to lenders or real estate commissions, associated with buying or selling a house.
The new rules for moving expense deductions do not take hold until next year.
And the movers, like everyone else, will be paying the new 4.3 cent-a-gallon gasoline tax which takes effect on Oct. 1, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Democratic Senators appearing at a news conference on Friday night after the Senate passed the budget package. From left were Senators George J. Mitchell, the Majority Leader, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Finance Chairman, and Jim Sasser. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); Representative Marjorie Margolies Mezvinsky was the swing vote in the House to pass President Clinton's budget. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) (pg. 24)
 
Table: "What to Expect Next April 15"
 
 What to Expect on April 15
 How the new law will affect the income taxes paid by five hypothetical households, assuming 3 percent annual inflation.

 Single mother, renter, two children
 Earnings: $19,000
 Federal income tax: 1992 $584
 1993 $577
 1994 $6
 Taxes fall under new tax law because of the expanded Earned Income Tax Credit, which is designed to help working families

 Single man, renter, without children
 Earnings: $50,000
 Federal income tax: 1992 $9,560
 1993 $9,853
 1994 $10,162
 Little change under new tax law.

 Two-income young couple, home-owners, with two children.
 Earnings: $70,000
 Federal income tax: 1992 $10,690
 1993 $11,023
 1994 $11,378
 Little change under new tax law.

 Professional couple, homeowners, two children
 Earnings: $200,000 (She is self-employed and makes $150,000)
 Federal income tax: 1992 $41,350
 1993 $43,745
 1994 $45,305 plus $582 increase.
Tax for Medicare will apply to more income. (It applies only to first $135,000.)
 
 Married corporate chief executive, spouse does not work; own two homes; have two children.
 Earnings: $900,000
 Federal income tax: 1992 $217,142
 1993 $271,769
 1994 $280,422 plus $11,829 increase in taxes for Medicare.
 
 Increased taxes under new tax law.
 (Source: Ernst & Young) (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (55%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SRL (55%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (55%); MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); REAL ESTATE; ESTATES; SMALL BUSINESS; PHILANTHROPY; TUITION; TAX CREDITS TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (76%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (69%); ESTATE PLANNING (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (66%); MEDICARE (65%); 

PERSON: ;CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



233 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Union Leaders Fight for a Place in the President's Workplace of the Future

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
As the Clinton Administration seeks to define the high-performance workplace of the future, union leaders are fighting for a place in that definition. More specifically, they say any Clinton campaign to upgrade the workplace will not succeed without unions.
But the Administration, backed strongly by unions in last fall's election, is not ready to go that far. "The jury is still out on whether the traditional union is necessary for the new workplace," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in an interview. 
 The conflict surfaced recently at a conference on the workplace in Chicago, sponsored by the Administration, as well as in interviews with Administration officials and union leaders.
The resolution is not likely to come until May, when a Presidential commission studying labor issues makes its first report. But union leaders say the Administration itself has already demonstrated the value of organized labor.
At the conference in late July, the Administration began using 20 companies as examples for corporate America to mimic in moving toward its vision of the workplace of the future. At the majority of these companies, unions played a vital role in making them better. And now union leaders say these selections make it clear that unions have an important role in the workplace of the future.
 
Prospects for Change
 "We have to persuade all the principal players by one means or another that the new workplace is not going to achieve anything like what we need in America without unions," said Lynn Williams, president of the United Steelworkers of America. "The record shows a high failure rate in the development of high-performance workplaces in nonunion settings."
Unions have long been blamed by some people for being part of the problem with American industry. They are portrayed as intransigent institutions responsible for impeding change and pushing wages and other compensation to the point where their companies cannot compete with businesses around the world.
But some union leaders say that if this was their tactic once, it no longer is. And they point to the showcase companies as evidence that the unions have become a vital part of the process, not an obstacle. Xerox, U S West, A.T.& T., two General Motors auto-making ventures, Chrysler, Levi Strauss and Corning Glass are all on the showcase list. And all have unions deeply involved in the workplace. Of eight nonunion companies, only Motorola is a major corporation.
Illustrating the change in tactics, Mr. Williams, who is trying to halt the decline in his own union's membership, has signed agreements with steel companies recently that he and the Administration hold up as examples. Rather than confront management, he said, the Steelworkers have agreed to concessions in pursuit of common goals like efficiency, lower costs and, ultimately, survival in global competition.
 
Winning Strategy
 The Williams strategy has made companies represented by the Steelworkers prominent on the Administration's showcase list, among them Inland Steel, L-S Electro-Galvanizing Company, Republic Engineered Steel and Magma Copper.
But while the unions argue that only a union presence guarantees that managers will not take advantage of cooperative workers, Administration officials say the self-interest of workers and of managers is now so intertwined that unions might no longer be needed as guardians.
"Unions are O.K. where they are," said Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown. "And where they are not, it is not clear yet what sort of organization should represent workers."
The commission, headed by John Dunlop, an economist at Harvard University who was Labor Secretary in the Ford Administration, sees one of its main tasks as deciding who should represent workers in their dealings with management. The answer is likely to determine whether unions can regain some of the membership and influence lost during the Reagan and Bush Administrations. But even now these showcase companies are focusing public attention on this problem.
One issue involves the penchant at the showcase companies for work councils, with labor and management represented. These councils are intended to make corporate decisions, like setting production schedules, judging quality, determining wages, hiring new people and making job assignments.
 
Union Involvement
 "We have the union involved at all levels of our operation," said Robert J. Darnall, Inland's chairman.
The unions agree, but offer a different thought. They argue that while the goal of labor-management councils is laudable -- a worker voice in running the company -- the councils can become management controlled, in violation of Federal labor law.
The commission must decide on how to avoid such an imbalance, or whether the law itself should be changed. The commission's report could make it easier for unions to represent workers on these councils, or deal them a setback.
A second issue centers on the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s demand that the Administration propose changes in the Labor Relations Act to remove what the unions call an obstacle to the organizing of nonunion workers. Currently, a union must win the right to represent a company's workers in a special election. But the unions say companies have increasingly found ways to prevent or delay these elections.
 
Easier Union Elections
 So they want the right to represent a company's workers if a majority sign petition cards requesting such representation -- a request that corporate spokesmen say would result in a setback for the Administration's campaign to create high-performance workplaces.
"Although there are some great cases of labor union participation in high-performance workplaces, the bulk of the success stories are clearly in the nonunion camp," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. "That is just the facts."
The Administration's list of showcase companies seems to carry a different message, and that came out at the Chicago conference, where executives and union officials from these companies gave testimonials about their experiences together.
The testimonials produced some common themes, all related to the issue of whether workers need unions to represent them in the new cooperative effort to improve a company's performance.
 
Back From the Brink
 Many of the showcase companies were losing money or facing bankruptcy when they sought help from their workers to improve efficiency and lower costs.
That was the case at the Magma Copper Company, which mines and processes copper into bars in Arizona. After years of conflict with the Steelworkers, Magma was on the verge of shutting down. Now, under a 15-year labor contract -- longer contracts have become a trend at the showcase companies -- Magma is investing nearly $500 million in a new mine, having first lowered its costs enough to make Magma competitive on world markets.
There have been no layoffs in several years, but as part of the effort to be more efficient, the union agreed to alter job rules so that workers could pitch in where they were needed. "A welder who works in the mine will now come and work in the smelter on a busy day there," said John Champagne, a Magma executive.
The profits from such efficiencies will help to make the new workplace high-wage, the Clinton Administration argues. But wage increases at Magma and other showcase companies have taken a back seat to bonuses tied to profits or greater efficiency.
 
Working Faster
 Magma's average wage for 4,400 workers is $15 an hour, but $2.25 of this, or 15 percent, is in a "gain-sharing" bonus paid for greater efficiency. To get it, each miner must now dig roughly 570 pounds of ore a day, on average, rather than the 350 pounds that was typical in 1988. "The 350 was a lazy day," Mr. Champagne said. "If miners have an incentive to work rather than sleep in the mine, that is a huge increase in productivity."
Mr. Williams, the Steelworkers president, makes a different point. Without a union, the job flexibility can turn into exploitation, he says, and without union access to Magma's books, the workers cannot know whether they are being shortchanged on their bonuses. "You need the union's collective bargaining power to split up the pie fairly for workers," Mr. Williams said.
The showcase companies, in most cases, have also gotten the unions to agree to shed jobs, but through attrition, rather than layoffs, or by retraining and transferring workers to new jobs from disappearing ones. Some displaced phone operators at U S West, for example, have become sales representatives at stores the company is opening in shopping malls.
Job preservation has taken a different form at other showcase companies, including L-S Electro-Galvanizing, a Cleveland auto parts company staffed with laid-off Steelworkers. The company's 70 workers are often not enough to keep up with the production pace. So with the union's permission, outsiders -- mainly former Steelworkers who had lost their jobs -- are brought in as contractors, and then let go when production falls. The tasks that had been done by the outsiders are reassigned to regular employees, to avoid layoffs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Corning Glass is one of 20 showcase companies that the Administration has cited as examples for corporate America to imitate in moving toward its vision of the workplace of the future. Bob Condella, a work team leader, conducted a meeting where labor and management were both represented. (Phil Matt for The New York Times); "The jury is still out on whether the traditional union is necessary for the new workplace," said Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. (Charles Bennett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); GLASS MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



234 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE -- Economic Memo;
In Short Run, Economy Could Suffer

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6

 BODY:
Now that the President's $496 billion budget bill has passed, the question on many Americans' minds is whether the plan will help or hurt the economy.
During the debate, the Administration promised that higher taxes, spending curbs and a shrinking deficit would produce millions of new jobs in the next three years. Congressional opponents, on the other hand, predicted that the deficit-cutting plan would produce nothing but another recession. 
 Both are way off base, many economists say.
 
Outlook on Jobs
 Forget about the promise of millions of new jobs, they say. "Those jobs would have been created by a recovering economy whether or not there was a plan and no matter who was in the White House," said Joel Prakken, an economist at Laurence Meyer & Associates, the economic forecasting firm whose projections the Administration cited in making its claim.
Indeed, according to just about every economist not on the Administration's payroll, the plan is apt to cost some economic growth and jobs in the next two or three years as the new taxes and spending cuts take their bite. The reason is simple: higher taxes and less Government spending means less money in consumer pockets.
"In the short run, our view is that the package will slow the economy," said Davis Wyss at DRI/McGraw Hill in Lexington, Mass. Rob Wescott, chief economist of the WEFA Group in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., said, "Half a trillion dollars of deficit reduction is going to have a somewhat depressing effect on the economy,"
And Allen Sinai, managing director of Lehman Brothers, said, "The hit is real in the short run."
To be sure, most analysts give the budget plan at least some of the credit for the sharp drop in long-term interest rates -- to about 6.5 percent today from 7.65 percent on Election Day. Lower long-term rates will blunt a good deal of the impact from taxes and spending changes, economists say, by stimulating businesses to invest and consumers to buy houses and cars.
 
Slowed Economy
 They also agree with much of what Mr. Clinton has said about the long-term benefits of freeing up for investment some of the money that would otherwise go to feed the deficit.
But, they part company with the Administration -- which has been denying stoutly that cutting the deficit is going to hurt in the short term -- by insisting that lower rates alone are unlikely to offset the drag on growth entirely.
Estimates by Merrill Lynch, DRI McGraw Hill, the WEFA Group and The Boston Company Economic Advisers of how much would be knocked off the growth rate range from 0.2 percent to 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product -- the nation's output of goods and services -- a year.
That means that if the economy were to grow at a 3 percent rate over the next three years without the plan, it would instead grow at 2.8 percent or 2.5 percent annually.
A lower growth rate would also mean fewer new jobs -- 150,000 to 250,000 a year fewer for one to three years, according to the estimates. The unemployment rate, which has been hovering around 7 percent most of this year, would take a bit longer to come down than otherwise.
"We don't think of it as a short run job creation program," Mr. Prakken said.
This is just common sense. Higher taxes will leave consumers and some small businesses with less money to spend and, though less tangible, with less enthusiasm for new money-making ventures.
 
$30 Billion in Taxes
 According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, taxes are apt to go up by $30 billion next year or 0.5 percent of G.D.P. The top 1 percent of taxpayers, who earn more than $200,000 -- and command more than 13 percent of all taxpayers' income -- will have to ante up $23 billion of that amount. Other taxpayers will bear the remaining $7 billion, which consists of the gas tax, the corporate tax and and higher levies on retirees.
The number of jobs will be hit directly by curbs on spending, especially Medicare and Medicaid caps, deep cuts in military outlays and reductions in the Federal work force.
Under the budget plan, the cuts, which are supposed to average about $30 billion a year but in fact are concentrated in the last couple of years of the plan, will really start to bite in a couple of years. At that point, consumers will wind up with less pre-tax income to spend.
But it is very easy to exaggerate the effect of these changes, which loom very large for individuals and companies, on the economy as a whole. In particular, fears that the budget bill will knock the economy into a new recession are overblown.
"This is a $6 trillion economy on its way to becoming an $8 trillion economy in 5 years," said Mr. Westcott of WEFA. "In that context, these are really small changes."
Besides, the way the plan affects the economy depends ultimately on the way millions and millions of people, from bond investors to businesses owners to consumers react.
If bond investors believe that the budget plan will actually reduce the deficit and also keep growth modest, long-term interest rates are more likely to stay low even as the recovery continues. Beyond giving a boost to public and private construction and the like, that would also tend to let foreign interest rates edge down.
The Federal Reserve is also an important actor because tighter monetary policy would intensify the cooling effects of the budget. To the extent to which slightly slower growth would help stave off inflationary pressures, the Federal Reserve would be less inclined to tighten as the economic recovery continued.
Ultimately, whether short-term pain is worth it depends on whether there is any long-term gain. The economists do see some.
 
Chief Benefits Seen
 They see three long-term benefits. One is stability. Like the benefits of lower inflation, keeping deficits from exploding does not translate easily into jobs created. But a debt that grows faster than gross domestic product, as the Federal debt has been doing in recent years, ultimately risks feeding on itself
"Once deficits get to be 8 to 10 percent of G.D.P., countries experience serious problems with interest rates and inflation," said Art Rolnick, research director at the Minneapolis Federal Reserve. "It looks as if this policy really will help rein in the deficit and keep the deficit from growing faster than the economy. That's very important."
The second benefit is higher investment. Cutting the deficit increases national saving directly and makes more resources available for investment in productivity-boosting capital. The principal benefit of this for workers in labor force will be higher pay, reflecting the higher productivity.
Finally, taxing the current generation strikes some as fairer than pushing the tax burden onto their children or grandchildren, which is what happens when government takes on more and more in obligations, whether social security or education spending, that current taxpayers pay an ever smaller fraction of.
"If you keep running large deficits today, you leave less capital for future generations," Mr. Rolnick said. "That's a question of fairness."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "What's New in the New Budget"
 
 REVENUE AND TAX INCREASES
 
All figures are in billions.
First figures gives date provision will take effect; second figure estimates the effect and the third figure estimates effect after five years.
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME TAXES: January 1, 1993; $15.4; 114.8
Increase marginal rates to 36 percent for couples with taxable income of over $140,000 and singles earning more than $115,000; a 10 percent surcharge on those earning more than $250,000 would raise their top rate to 39.6 percent. Makes commensurate changes in the alternative minimum tax rates.
 
CAPITAL GAINS: no change
Keeps the capital gains tax rate at 28 percent.
 
SOCIAL SECURITY: January 1, 1994 1.9; 24.6
Taxes up to 85 percent of Social Security benefits for couples earning more than $44,000 and singles earning more than $34,000.
 
MOVING EXPENSES: January 1, 1994 0.2; 2.3
Eliminates the deduction for the portion of expenses due to meals and real estate transactions

ESTATE AND GIFT TAXES: January 1, 1993 0.5; 2.8
Reinstates top estate and gift tax rates of 53 percent and 55 percent respectively.
 
ENERGY TAX: October 1, 1993; 4.4; 23.4
4.3 percent tax on transportation fuels, including gasoline and diesel fuel, with commercial airline fuel exempt for 2 years.
 
CORPORATE TAX RATE: January 1, 1993 6.5; 24.2
Raises top corporate tax from 34 percent to 35 percent for taxable income above $10 million.
 
BUSINESS DEDUCTIONS: various; 0.4; 4.6
Eliminates deductions for club dues, certain lobbying costs, expenses of spouse or dependents while on business travel and caps compensation that can be counted for retirement plans at $150,000.
 
BUSINESS MEALS: January 1, 1994 1.8; 15.3
Lowers the deductible portion of business meal and entertainment expenses to 50 percent from 80 percent.
 
INTANGIBLES: Date of enactment*; 0.1; 2.5
New rules for amortization of the purchase cost of intangibles.
 
MEDICARE TAX: January 1, 1994 2.8; 29.2
Repeals $135,000 cap on taxed income; makes all salary subject to Medicare payroll tax.
 
COMMUNICATIONS LICENSING: --; 2.4; 10.2
Auctions radio frequencies for new communications services
 
****TAX CUTS****
 
EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT: January 1, 1994; 0.2; 20.8
Expands the tax break for the working poor and provides benefits to some people without children.
 
INVESTMENT INCENTIVES: various; 4.8; 14.1
Extends research and experimentation credit, orphan drug tax credit, allows small businesses to write off up to $17,500 in capital spending in a ingle year.
 
SMALL BUSINESS CAPITAL GAINS: Date of enactment*; 0.0; 0.8
Provides a 50 percent exclusion for capital gains on certain investments held at least five years.
 
PASSIVE LOSSES: January 1, 1994; 0.3; 2.6
Certain real-estate professionals allowed to offset income with rental losses.
 
URBAN AID: January 1, 1994; 0.3; 3.5
Creates zones where businesses would get special employment and investment tax incentive; $2.5 billion in tax incentives and $1 billion in direct grants.

 ******SPENDING INCREASES*******
 
FOOD STAMPS: January 1, 1994; 0.05; 2.7
Supplants a bill to ease eligibility for food stamps and raise the basic benefit levels.
 
FAMILY PRESERVATION: October 1, 1993; 0.05; 0.9
Provides for support services for families on welfare.
 
***SPENDING CUTS****
 
DISCRETIONARY SPENDING FREEZE; --; --; 102.1
Freeze on total spending for programs which require an annual appropriation many details remian to be determined, but most; of this money comes from defense.
 
MEDICAL: various: 2.1; 55.8
Cuts payments to doctors hospitals and other providers under Medicare and Medicaid
 
MEDICAID; various; --; 7.6
 
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT: October 1, 1994; 0.0; 8.7
Terminates the lump-sum retirement option for federal retirees
 
 STUDENT LOANS: NA; 0.6; 4.3
Shifts at least 60 percent of the student aid to direct loans by the government and imposes fees on banks and other financial institutions.
 
 *Date signed into law by the president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); MEDICARE (91%); MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NASAR, SYLVIA BILL CLINTON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



235 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: In the Path of the Flood, Hard Times Just Got Harder

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. CHARLES, Mo., Aug. 7

 BODY:
The flood water that swamped Deerfield Village Mobile Home Park here last month has receded nearly a foot in recent days, but it has left the twin plagues of foul-smelling mud and larger-than-life mosquitoes.
The muck, the bugs and the stench reminded the 265 families who live here that ferocious rivers, frantic sandbagging and failed levees are only the first chapter in the great flood of 1993 and will be followed by less drama but more misery. 
 The trailer park is home to mechanics, cashiers and janitors, to folks who talk with a twang and drive old Chevies, to men and women who are already struggling and now must struggle some more. Many of them have spent their lives in low-lying trailer parks, the only housing they can afford, and are not strangers to rising water.
These days, forced from their single- and double-wide trailers, they gather on the shoulder of Elm Point Road, outside the park's entrance, to complain and commiserate, watch and wait.
In canoes and johnboats, or by foot in chest-high waders, they visit their homes daily to discourage looters, check out how much water has seeped into the insulation or grab a few more videotapes to entertain bored children now living in motels.
 
Catfish and Frogs
 Most of the residents fled on July 9, when the Mississippi River jumped an agricultural levee about a a half-mile away. But some stuck around a few more days, until the murky water filled the streets of the 40-acre park, or until their air-conditioning units went under, or until they found catfish or frogs in their beds.
Now, a few at a time, they began returning this weekend to help with the cleanup, which is being led by the park manager, Peggy Hooker; the owner's son, Craig Ingram, and a handful of residents who have been offered a break on their rent if they pitch in. No one will be expected to pay rent for August.
With shovels and backhoes, the cleanup crew is removing the sludgy mixture of mud, dead plants and railroad ties from ruined gardens and the empty soda cans that have been left in the wake of the flood. They are bleaching their parking pads and patios, hoping to kill the stench and rout the germs.
Eventually, said Ken Ingram, the park's owner, all the trailers will be washed down with a power sprayer, and the grassy areas now turned to swamp will be worked with a farm implement that aerates the soil. Grass will be replanted, and the whole park will be sprayed for mosquitoes.
"It looks bad now," the elder Mr. Ingram said, "but it doesn't take that long to clean it up. Come back in a month. You'll be amazed."
 
Some Resentment
 The owner is not a popular man among many of the Elm Point Road residents, who say they were misled when they rented lots at Deerfield, which is at the northern edge of St. Charles, a bedroom suburb of St. Louis close to the confluence of the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers.
A pleasant place in better times, with manicured gardens, swing sets and basketball hoops, Deerfield boasts that it was not overrun by water in either the 1973 or 1986 floods.
Hanging in the manager's office are aerial photos of the park when it was untouched by water during earlier floods. And the owner proudly notes that he built up the land, making it 3 to 5 feet higher than the adjacent soybean field, and then insisted that residents lift their trailers on platforms to 444 feet above sea level, which put them a foot above the designated 100-year flood line.
Some residents took that as a promise that they would always be on dry ground. "They say, 'It didn't happen in '86, so you're safe,' " said Roy Spencer, a retired meat packer whose wife cleans the St. Charles County Courthouse here. "To me, when you're in a flood plain, you shouldn't make a statement like that. You should say there's always that possibility."
Others residents figure that the people who run Deerfield Village should not be expected to predict or prevent a flood of epic proportions. "I don't hold anybody responsible," said Bob Bodley, a county building inspector. "This one was beyond the control of anybody."
Another thing that galls the residents here is what they described as gouging by the haulers who showed up last month to offer to pull trailers to dry ground. As the flood water approached, residents said, scores of haulers tried to drum up business in the streets of Deerfield, with prices ranging from $250 to $3,000.
 
Some Trailers Escaped
 About 60 residents, alone or with professional help, hauled their trailers to parking lots on higher land at local schools.
"I thought about it," said Guy Civey, who rebuilds transmissions for a living and whose wife, a shipping clerk, wanted him to haul their mobile home away. But Mr. Civey said he had told her that moving a double-wide trailer, which costs about $50,000, would be risky.
"You pull this unit apart and you'll never get it back right," he said.
Another of the residents' gripes is the rush to solicit business by insurance companies, who also came calling at Deerfield just as the water began to rise. Craig Ingram, who has three inches of sludge in his trailer despite jacking it up an extra foot, said he had seen agents sell two dozen policies at the last minute, including one to Dale Covington, who fears that he did not pay enough attention to the "small print."
Mr. Covington signed first and worried later, but he has now been told by his neighbors that flood insurance includes a rule to the effect that a homeowner cannot collect unless the policy was bought five days before water reached the property.
Mr. Covington does not understand if that means the yard, which was already wet by the time he bought his policy, or the mobile home itself, which he said was still dry. "I'm hoping I can collect, but I don't know," he said.
 
Tales of Woe
 Most of the people in the mobile home village -- residents guessed about 80 percent -- have insurance. In many instances, they had bought insurance because they had been victims of earlier floods while living in other lowland trailer parks throughout the Mississippi Valley and had learned their lesson.
That is the case with Tom Lupo, who this week told a tale of woe that made him sound like a latter-day Job. Mr. Lupo was flooded out of a trailer park in Bedford, Mo., in 1986, lost his father shortly thereafter and was then dismissed as a manager for a local trash-hauling concern.
He has exhausted his unemployment benefits, Mr. Lupo said, his ex-wife is suing him for additional alimony, and he is barely paying his bills by driving a delivery truck for Domino's pizza. Now he is trapped in a single room at the Red Roof Inn here with his second wife and two cranky stepchildren.
"Let me tell you where my stress level's at," Mr. Lupo said as he hung around on Elm Point Road, hoping to hitch a boat ride to his swamped trailer. "I'm at the point now where I just want to scream."
Also suffering cabin fever from a month in a motel room with two toddlers is Steve Lopez. Mr. Lopez took his johnboat into the flooded streets the other day to fetch Superman and Bugs Bunny videos for 5-year-old Timothy and 2-year-old Brandon, who are having trouble sleeping in unfamiliar beds.
Mr. Lopez is a house painter with nothing to paint these days, although he hopes the later stages of flood recovery will mean lots of work. For now, he hangs out at the muddy trailer park, gazing with envy at the $200,000 houses on the bluff above. These sturdy homes, safe and dry, are in a subdivision known as Edgemont, which is also owned by Ken Ingram.
"We should have got us a house up there," Mr. Lopez said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A resident trudged through the standing water surrounding the Deerfield Village Mobile Home Park in St. Charles, Mo., where severe flooding caused tenants to leave the park last month. The water has receded somewhat but has left foul-smelling mud and large mosquitoes. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MISSISSIPPI RIVER; ST CHARLES (MO) UNITED STATES (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS TRAILER PARKS (91%); MOBILE HOMES (91%); RIVERS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); FAMILY (77%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



236 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET STRUGGLE -- Political Memo;
For Clinton, Plenty of Work Is Left

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7

 BODY:
President Clinton scraped through and got the budget victory on which he staked his Presidency. Now comes the scary part.
How scary? One Democratic Senator who reluctantly voted for the package, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin, bought television commercials this weekend defending his decision. 
 Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizona Democrat who also sided with the President, has been overwhelmed by voters back home asking him why. Acknowledging the political risks, Mr. DeConcini joked that Mr. Clinton promised him the next opening on the Supreme Court.
By contrast, Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Democrat who has emerged as his party's most relentless critic of the President, proudly declared: "I was the first Democrat to oppose this measure."
 
Risks for Democrats
 To calm his fellow Democrats, Mr. Clinton must prove that he was not uttering empty words when he proclaimed that gridlock had broken, enabling him to fulfill his more ambitious promises to overhaul the health care and welfare systems.
But even as they rejoice this week at the White House, Mr. Kohl and Mr. DeConcini and the other jittery Democrats facing re-election next year are well aware that their political futures, and Mr. Clinton's, may well rise or fall on a series of gambles that are largely beyond their control.
Will there be short-term growth in the economy? Or, as many economists predict, will the tax increases only discourage any upturn? Will the victory this week help Democrats persuade Republicans to end their united opposition and build the bipartisanship needed to pass Mr. Clinton's legislative agenda? Or will the stalemate only linger?
"Clinton lives or dies on this bill," said Charles Rund, a Republican pollster. "He's got to show that something actually happened that was positive. But if the economy just muddles along and he proposes that we spend more money on health care, his agenda will be in serious trouble."
 
'We Have No Illusions'
 While they acknowledge the challenge, Democrats frame it in more reassuring terms. "Sure, ultimately, peoples' pocketbooks will tell the tale," said David Wilhelm, chairman of the Democratic Party. "We have no illusions about the task ahead, but the vote was a key moment because we have shown that we as a party have the will and the capacity to govern."
Mr. Clinton emerged from the budget battle victorious, but not unscathed. That Vice President Al Gore had to break the tie in a Senate dominated by Democrats demonstrates that his mandate was hardly overwhelming. While Mr. Clinton deserves great credit for holding the Democrats together in the face of opposition from every Republican in the House and Senate, it was not without cost: he is viewed as a President who let lawmaker after lawmaker in his own party extract concessions from him to gain their support.
"If I were Clinton and his staff, I wouldn't do much bragging about this," said Tom Cronin, an authority on the Presidency who is president of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash. "He's got to keep hammering at the theme that we as a country have enormous deficits. He should say that this is just a beginning."
If his radio address today is any evidence, Mr. Clinton understands the struggle before him. "This plan is an urgent step," he said. "But I want to emphasize, it is only the first step."
 
Difficult Tasks
 In the starkest terms, Mr. Clinton's long-term chances rest with the 19 percent who voted for Ross Perot last year, voters who Mr. Clinton needs to draw from if he is to be re-elected. Mr. Perot is already complaining that the package will do little to significantly affect the deficit. And polls show that the American people have little faith that the package will turn the economy around, and they have even less patience for the prospect of new taxes.
"Quite honestly," said Joan N. Baggett, the White House political director, "I don't think this President is ever going to have extremely high approval or popularity because everything he does is difficult."
But Mr. Clinton did buy himself some time, and a degree of momentum, as he heads into what everyone expects to be the more bruising battle over health care in September.
Unlike Mr. Clinton, the Democrats who face re-election next year do not have three more years to hope that the economy recovers, and they are nervous. Two of the six Democrat Senators who opposed the bill are running next year, and several others who face re-election sided with the President only after great trepidation.
Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat who handed Mr. Clinton the victory at the last minute, was not as confident that as the President that "the days of endless gridlock, rising deficits and trickle-down economics are over."
"There is no consensus yet either in the Congress or the country about what we should do to achieve economic growth," Mr. Kerrey said in an interview today. "Somebody has to accept less income. And somebody has to pay the bills."
 
Attacks Back Home
 In a taste of what Mr. Kerrey and other Democrats can expect in the 15 months leading up to their re-election contests, the Nebraska Republican Party issued a press release today attacking the state's two Democratic Senators: "Instead of standing up for Nebraska, Bob Kerrey and Jim Exon were the key votes to pass the Clinton budget plan. This tax plan is a fraud masquerading as deficit reduction."
Indeed, there is little evidence that the budget victory will usher in a new era of bipartisan cooperation in the capital.
Though he prefaced his remarks by saying "I don't wish bad things for this country," Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, hardly seemed convinced that the Clinton plan would put people back to work and boost the economy.
"The proof will be in the pudding," he said. "If it doesn't work, it's not going to be much of a victory."
As the Democrats continue to rebut such skepticism, and convince a somewhat disbelieving public that the budget plan is a good step, officials say they plan to keep the White House "war room," originally created for the Congressional fight, open.
Roger C. Altman, the deputy treasury secretary who runs the operation -- and is no doubt weary after months of insisting that the budget would not place an unfair burden on the middle class -- said: "We still have work to do in terms of dispelling some of these myths and explaining again and again and again why this is good for the country. So we're going to continue in business for a while."
Ms. Baggett, the White House political director, said the Administration hoped that after Mr. Clinton traveled around the country promoting the plan beginning next week, "people will start to feel better," adding, "Even in our own polls there's still a disappointing number who think they're going to be the ones taxed."
Many Democrats in Congress do not sound as hopeful as Mr. Altman or Ms. Baggett. Senator Kohl, for one, seemed to hedge his bets in his 60-second television commercial.
"While you and I may not agree on all aspects of this bill," he told viewers, "I believe it is essential for our future and the future of our children that we begin to get this deficit under control."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I believe it is essential for our future and the future of our children that we begin to get this deficit under control," said Senator Herb Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat who voted for the budget. (Associated Press, 1988); President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore acknowledging the crowd Friday night after the budget vote. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); Senator Dennis DeConcini, an Arizona Democrat who voted for the President's budget, has been overwhelmed by voters at home asking why. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (76%); TAX LAW (75%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HERB KOHL (90%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



237 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Votes in Congress

 BODY:
Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York
Senate
1. Nomination: Vote to confirm Sheldon Hackney, president of the University of Pennsylvania, to be chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Approved 76 to 23, Aug. 3.
2. National Service: Vote on passage of a national service bill that would give students education aid in return for community service. Approved 58 to 41, Aug. 3.
3. Abortions: Vote on an amendment to a spending bill for the Treasury and other related agencies that would allow a ban on insurance coverage for abortions in Federal workers' health plans. Rejected 51 to 48, Aug.3.
4. Budget : Vote on passage of President Clinton's five-year economic plan. Approved 51 to 50, Aug. 6. The tie-breaking vote was cast by Vice-President Al Gore.
 
Connecticut
Dodd (D) . . . Y . . . Y . . . N . . . Y
Lieberman (D) . . . N . . . Y . . . N . . . Y
New Jersey
Bradley (D) . . . Y . . . Y . . . N . . . Y

New Jersey (cont'd)
Lautenberg (D) . . . Y . . . Y . . . N . . . N
New York
D'Amato (R) . . . N . . . N . . . Y . . . N
Moynihan (D) . . . Y . . . Y . . . N . . . Y

KEY: Y Yea; N Nay; (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.
 
House
1. Intelligence: Vote on an amendment to an intelligence budget bill that would have required public disclosure of total amounts requested for and spent on intelligence-related activities. (The figures are now secret.) Rejected 264 to 169, Aug. 4.
2. Budget: Vote on passage of President Clinton's five-year economic plan. Approved 218 to 216, Aug. 5.


Connecticut
 1. Kennelly (D) . . . N . . . Y
 2. Gejdenson (D) . . . Y . . . Y
 3. DeLauro (D) . . . Y . . . Y
 4. Shays (R) . . . Y . . . N
 5. Franks (R) . . . N . . . N
 6. Johnson (R) . . . N . . . N
New Jersey
 1. Andrews (D) . . . N . . . N
 2. Hughes (D) . . . N . . . Y
 3. Saxton (R) . . . N . . . N
 4. Smith (R) . . . N . . . N
 5. Roukema (R) . . . N . . . N
 6. Pallone (D) . . . N . . . N
 7. Franks (R) . . . N . . . N
 8. Klein (D) . . . N . . . N
 9. Torricelli (D) . . . Y . . . Y
10. Payne (D) . . . Y . . . Y
 
11. Gallo (R) . . . N . . . N
12. Zimmer (R) . . . Y . . . N
13. Menendez (D) . . . N . . . Y
New York
 1. Hochbrueckner (D) . . . N . . . Y
 2. Lazio (R) . . . N . . . N
 3. King (R) . . . N . . . N
 4. Levy (R) . . . N . . . N
 5. Ackerman (D) . . . N . . . Y
 6. Flake (D) . . . Y . . . Y
 7. Manton (D) . . . N . . . Y
 8. Nadler (D) . . . Y . . . Y
 9. Schumer (D) . . . Y . . . Y
10. Towns (D) . . . Y . . . Y
11. Owens (D) . . . Y . . . Y
12. Velazquez (D) . . . Y . . . Y
13. Molinari (R) . . . N . . . N
14. Maloney (D) . . . Y . . . Y
 
15. Rangel (D) . . . Y . . . Y
16. Serrano (D) . . . Y . . . Y
17. Engel (D) . . . Y . . . Y
18. Lowey (D) . . . Y . . . Y
19. Fish (R) . . . N . . . N
20. Gilman (R) . . . N . . . N
21. McNulty (D) . . . N . . . Y
22. Solomon (R) . . . N . . . N
23. Boehlert (R) . . . N . . . N
24. McHugh (R) . . . N . . . N
25. Walsh (R) . . . N . . . N
26. Hinchey (D) . . . Y . . . Y
27. Paxon (R) . . . N . . . N
28. Slaughter (D) . . . N . . . Y
29. LaFalce (D) . . . N . . . Y
30. Quinn (R) . . . N . . . N
31. Houghton (R) . . . N . . . N
 
KEY: Y Yea; N Nay; (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: NSI (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3646 COMMERCIAL LIGHTING FIXTURES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES NATIONAL SERVICE INDUSTRIES INC (91%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; HEALTH INSURANCE; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ABORTION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES ; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; NATIONAL SERVICE; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LEGISLATION (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: HACKNEY, SHELDON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (58%); ED TOWNS (58%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



238 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: A Slow Boil In the Melting Pot

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

 BODY:
On wooden benches at Seth Low Park in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, Russian emigres gather daily to play chess and dominoes and to discuss the latest political developments in their homeland. Not long ago, Italian-Americans would have been sitting on those benches playing cards.
But in the last few years, the Russian emigres, most of whom are Jewish, have slowly replaced the Italian-Americans, who have moved their card games inside the park's clubhouse. "It's too bad that they don't come anymore," 66-year-old Mikhail Kopyt said through an interpreter. "There was never any problem with them. I don't know why they stopped coming." 
 Faced with a shortage of affordable and decent housing in the traditional Russian enclave of Brighton Beach, a new wave of emigres, who left soon after the 1991 failed coup against Mikhail S. Gorbachev, have opted to settle in Bensonhurst.
 
Clash of Cultures
 While Bensonhurst has been viewed in recent years as not welcoming outsiders with open arms, it was not seen as antagonistic toward other white ethnic groups. Yet, with the arrival of about 17,000 Russian Jewish emigres since 1991, many of the community's longtime residents have been less than cordial to their new neighbors.
Interviews with more than two dozen people revealed deep resentment toward the Russians, with Bensonhurst's longtime residents complaining that the emigres are too pushy, do not understand American culture, are taking scarce jobs and, when unable to find jobs, are living on welfare.
At the same time, the Russians often keep to themselves because many of them do not speak English.
"If you told me years ago that a blond-haired, blue-eyed person would be discriminated against in Bensonhurst, I would have thought you were crazy," said Dennis Torreggiani, chief of staff for Assemblyman Frank J. Barbaro, a Democrat whose district includes Bensonhurst. "I don't go anywhere without hearing some remarks about the Russians."
 
Tension and Animosity
 "No one indoctrinated the Russians before they got here," said Carmine Santa Maria, president of the Bensonhurst West End Community Council, a community organization.
But Mr. Santa Maria said the Italian-Americans sometimes have to reach out to the newcomers to help close the cultural gaps. "They don't understand the American ways," he said, "and consequently they are rubbing people the wrong way."
In some ways, the tension and animosity in Bensonhurst simply reflect the problems that can arise when a neighborhood experiences an influx of a different ethnic or racial group. Several neighborhoods in New York City have recently experienced the arrival of black, Hispanic or Asian people in mostly white communities.
And when such a shift occurs in a neighborhood like Bensonhurst, where some residents may still feel the sting of racial tension that flared after the shooting death of a black youth, Yusuf K. Hawkins, in 1989, there can be a volatile strain.
But in other ways the tension seems to reflect deeper problems, including economics and some of the animosities that many Americans feel toward immigrants.
 
Deep Resentment
 Rose Mattino, who has lived in Bensonhurst all of her 39 years, expressed some of those views when she complained that too many of the emigres receive public assistance. "They come here and get it like that," she said, snapping her fingers. "They all have food stamps. That's my money and I resent it."
Sal Liotti, 41, who was standing next to Mrs. Mattino, added: "When my parents came over from the old country, they had to work. Today everything is given to them. We have the greatest deficit. We have homeless people who were born here. Why don't we take care of them."
In the last three years, about 40,000 Jews have left the former Soviet Union, with half settling in New York City, said Joel B. Karpp, executive director of the Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst. That influx has helped to make Russians the seventh-largest ethnic group in the city, according to the Department of City Planning, and their numbers may grow as the former Soviet Union relaxes restrictions on travel.
As more Russian Jews move to New York City, many look outside their usual settlement areas, like Brighton Beach, in the hope of finding a nicer neighborhood.
 
'The Word Is Out'
 Mr. Karpp, whose agency is one of the largest community-based organizations working in the resettlement of Russians in the United States, said the new immigrants know of Bensonhurst, with its broad streets and single-family houses, even before they come here.
"They come with a piece of paper with our address scribbled on it," he said sitting inside his spacious office in Bensonhurst with folders stacked on a large desk. "The word about Bensonhurst is out back there. They're not going to Brighton Beach as much anymore."
Many of the recent immigrants settling in Bensonhurst are largely professionals and members of the former Soviet Union's intelligentsia. To them, Brighton Beach is a stronghold of the proletariat.
"We're very educated people," said Gabriel Shalmiy, a 36-year-old dentistry student at New York University who settled in Bensonhurst about a year ago. "We try to find a very quiet place to live. We like a place where there is no fighting."
 
Paying a Price
 While they have found such a place, it has not come without a high price.
Mikhail Penkich, a 68-year-old former factory manager in the old Soviet Union, said that recently while playing dominoes in Seth Low Park a passer-by shouted to them: "You should all be shot. You're sitting here playing while we're out working."
Most of the emigres are simply impervious to the animosities, in part because they do not speak English and tend to keep to themselves.
Others, like Mr. Penkich, are willing to dismiss such outbursts as the acts of a few zealots. "It's possible that the man was insane," Mr. Penkich said. "We just ignored it."
Of course, not all of Bensonhurst has shown animosity or resentment toward the emigres.
Assemblyman Barbaro, for example, hired a Russian affairs liaison to translate documents and to help the Russians file for political asylum, said his aide, Mr. Torreggiani.
Local banks display "We speak Russian" signs on their windows and Russian language is available at many automated teller machines.
 
Opening Stores and Delis
 At the same time, Russian emigres have opened dozens of stores and delis selling Russian sausage and pelmeni, a ravioli stuffed with meat, on 86th Street, a busy commercial center. Others have posted Russian language fliers advertising their skills. "Manicure, pedicure, wax, very low prices," reads one.
"They've added a certain amount of flair to the community," said Howard Feuer, district manager of Community Board 11 in Bensonhurst. "They pour money back into the community and have kept it thriving."
Many of the new emigres are not thriving. Despite public and private assistance, they are struggling to eke out a living.
Yelena Kolbasko, 24, who worked as a food manager in Minsk, is now unemployed. Her husband, Sergei, 25, a mechanic, is also out of work. They have a 4-year-old daughter, Yekaterina. The family receives $600 a month in public assistance. Their one-bedroom apartment costs $500, leaving little for luxuries. To get by, they juggle their budget, and they are always late paying one bill or another.
"We feel very badly about it," Mrs. Kolbasko said about receiving public assistance. "We feel like we're at the bottom rung of society. But without it we could not survive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the arrival of about 17,000 Russian Jewish emigres in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, since 1991, many Italian-American residents have begun to express deep resentment toward this other white ethnic group. For the last few years, tables in Seth Low Park in Bensonhurst, above, have been occupied by Russians rather than Italian-Americans, who have moved their games and discussions elsewhere. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BENSONHURST (NYC); BRIGHTON BEACH (NYC); RUSSIA UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JEWS; ITALIAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; SOVIET JEWS CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); ETHNICITY (88%); ETHNIC GROUPS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); CARD GAMES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); COUPS (68%); TRENDS (60%); IMMIGRATION (59%); 

PERSON: PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



239 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Just a Moment on Those Layoff 'Experts'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Regarding "Learning the Lessons of a Layoff" and "Job Hunting Beyond the Want Ads" (Your Own Account, July 11 and 18): Just where did you dig up the "experts" on the unemployed? They seemed to agree on just one thing -- if people are laid off, it's got to be their own damn fault. My guess is that they all make a good living soothing the feelings of the managers booting people out on the street. As one who was laid off late last year, I suggest that the management expert you might consider for your next article on this subject is W. Edwards Deming, who says 85 percent of the problems a company has are caused by its management.
 
JAMES V. CHAVERN
Boulder, Colo., July 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); COLORADO, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); 

PERSON: CHAVERN, JAMES V

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



240 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: The Budget Fight Has Just Begun

 BODY:
When Vice President Al Gore cast the tie-breaking vote in the Senate on Friday, Congress ended a long battle over the Administration's five-year economic program. But an even more fundamental struggle over the budget has just begun.
What Congress did last week was primarily to set taxes and spending formulas for entitlement programs, like Medicare and food stamps. But it still must decide, after returning from summer vacation, how much to spend next year on programs that don't work by formula -- discretionary programs that include everything from the F.B.I. to the census. At stake is whether the core of Mr. Clinton's program survives, or whether he is forced to retreat to a program little different from George Bush's. 
 At the center of Mr. Clinton's economic plan was the promise to tilt spending toward investment, the key to growth. He proposed new discretionary programs to finance worker training, scientific research and infrastructure improvements. But for Congress to pass the new and stay within self-imposed spending limits, it must give up the old -- spitting in the face of powerful constituents who are quite happy with their Federal handouts.
And to make matters worse for Mr. Clinton, members of his own party, like Representative Timothy Penny of Minnesota, want Congress to make an additional round of spending cuts this fall. If these cut-at-all-cost advocates get their way, they will force Congress to abandon almost everything that's new in the Clinton program. That would turn Clintonomics into little more than Reaganomics: Cut Federal spending for its own sake.
Contrary to the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole, and friends, the five-year budget agreement has teeth. Discretionary spending, other than for defense, will be held virtually constant for five years, accounting for inflation. President Clinton has proposed about $50 billion in new investment spending over five years. If he's to get his way, Congress must take an equal amount out of old programs. But for a legislature that can't summon the courage to take on the mohair and honey bee producers, the task appears herculean.
The House has proposed eliminating almost half of Mr. Clinton's investment initiatives for next year. Mr. Clinton asked for $135 million for his youth apprenticeship program, a key to training non-college-bound workers. The House gave him only $34 million. He asked for $1.5 billion to help workers thrown out of work because their plants closed; the House gave only $550 million. He sought more than $200 million for aid to schools serving underprivileged children; the House gave nothing. He sought about $200 million for scientific initiatives; the House gave less than half.
The list goes on and on. Of course, some of Mr. Clinton's proposals weren't worth funding. And the Administration is responsible for part of the problem by proposing too few cuts to pay for its initiatives. Nevertheless, the pattern of cutting huge chunks out of the President's investment plans is unsettling.
Matters will turn darkly worse if Congress engages in a new round of deficit cuts. Mr. Clinton plans to ask Congress next year to substitute more of his programs for existing programs. But if Congress cuts spending first and devotes the savings to deficit reduction, it would put the White House in a no-win bind. The President would be forced to pay for new programs with tax hikes, leaving him prey to bashing by Republicans as a tax-and-spend Democrat. Or he would have to abandon his investment program, rendering him indistinguishable from George Bush. Congress should spare him that predicament.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); MEDICARE (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



241 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The 6.8% Illusion

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Following a marathon struggle, President Clinton has his budget deal. Now would be a good time for the Administration to stop giving the public a false impression about job creation.
Mr. Clinton's top economic adviser, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, says a million jobs have been created so far this year. To the average ear, that sounds impressive. It's not. The Administration sometimes uses employment statistics the way a carnival barker uses his pitch -- to mislead the unsuspecting. 
 According to figures released by the Federal Government on Friday, 1,230,000 jobs have been created since January. But 728,000 -- nearly 60 percent -- were part-time jobs. Most of the remainder were service-sector jobs, many of them temporary, that paid low wages and offered few or no benefits.
These are not the kind of jobs that can adequately support families or sustain an economic recovery.
Real wages, meaning wages adjusted for inflation, continue to fall, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
And good jobs continue to vanish at an alarming rate. Layoffs in the U.S. this year have reached 353,614, according to a report by Challenger, Gray and Christmas, a private firm that counsels employees who are discharged. Layoffs are averaging more than 50,000 per month, which is 4,000 per month higher than the recession year of 1991.
"The jobs being created are not good jobs," said Dean Baker, a research economist with the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. "Overwhelmingly they're poorly paid, less secure, and less likely to have benefits. A lot of them are in retail trade, so we're having people going to work in 7-11's, McDonald's, . . . a lot of restaurant work."
The jobs situation has a direct and formidable impact on families. "You have a lot more families that are in distress," said Mr. Baker. "Now the typical family is the two-wage-earner family. The odds are that at least one of the wage earners has either lost their job, or is worried about losing their job."
Few economists are forecasting substantial improvements. "My contention is that the statistics look better than reality would suggest," said Philip Braverman, senior vice president and chief economist for DKB Securities, the domestic arm of the Dai-Ichi Bank of Tokyo, the world's largest private banking organization.
Mr. Braverman believes that some of the job-creation estimates by the Federal Government are too high. Last year, for example, as more data came in, the Bureau of Labor Statistics found it had overestimated manufacturing jobs by about 129,000.
Mr. Braverman also noted that among individuals who are counted as self-employed, there are many who have chosen self-employment because they could not find other work. "Many people who are self-employed have no income," he said. Yet they are still counted as employed.
There are many reasons for the widespread gloom over jobs: Major firms are downsizing, government and business are overburdened by debt, Federal taxes are increasing, Federal spending is decreasing, and there is an enormous employment drag caused by the post-cold war contraction of defense spending.
"The Defense Department estimates that through 1997 an additional 1.9 million individuals will lose their jobs," said Mr. Braverman. He added that the estimated "indirect effect of those layoffs" will be five million more people "thrown out of work."
"This will be an unusual, extraordinary burden that is not being adequately recognized by economists," he said.
The official unemployment rate dropped from 7 percent to 6.8 percent in July. But William Barron, Deputy Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, told a Congressional committee that because of the statistical rounding of numbers the new, lower rate "was not materially different from the levels that have prevailed since early in the year."
That was underscored by the latest figures on the long-term unemployed -- individuals who have been out of work at least 15 weeks. The number of people in that category rose by 188,000.
The Clinton Administration has been desperate for good economic news, but there is not much of it in employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (55%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (51%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS (LABOR); PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); JOB CREATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RECESSION (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RESTAURANTS (69%); PRIVATE BANKING (68%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



242 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Coming Oil Shortage Will Worsen Food Crisis;
New Crops Needed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
An all-out effort is needed to slow population growth, as Lester R. Brown states in "Natural Limits" (Op-Ed, July 24), but such an effort will not significantly reduce the population explosion of the next 10 to 20 years. In addition, some 700 million people today do not have access to enough food. 
 To meet the needs of these and future populations, developing countries must be helped to grow more food. Eating fewer or smaller steaks in the United States will not help starving people in Ethiopia. Consuming less of what developing countries export, such as coffee, will make matters worse, particularly for the poor who depend on exports for income.
The international aid community, together with the governments of developing countries, can expand food production and reduce poverty.
Science and technology, along with the building of rural roads and other infrastructure and government policies, still offer the only means to meet food production needs in Africa and South Asia, which are the areas of greatest concern.
The focus of agricultural scientists in national and international research centers around the world, particularly those that are members and affiliates of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, is development of new crop varieties that not only increase yields but also protect the environment.
Research and technology require money. Investment in agricultural research and development has been declining among the world's aid agencies -- including the United States Agency for International Development and the World Bank -- and agriculture has received less attention from many governments of developing countries in recent years. We need to start focusing on the problem by setting realistic goals.
These include population planning and increased investment in agricultural research and technology to increase production and reduce poverty in those countries with the most need.
 
PER PINSTRUP-ANDERSEN
Director General, International
Food Policy Research Institute
Washington, July 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (75%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (56%); CONSULTATIVE GROUP ON INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSULTATIVE GROUP ON INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (75%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SHORTAGES POPULATION GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (90%); AGRONOMY (90%); CROP RESEARCH (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); STARVATION (76%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); 

PERSON: PINSTRUP-ANDERSEN, PER; BROWN, LESTER R

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



243 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A Cartel Is Forever

BYLINE: By Adam Hochschild; Adam Hochschild is the author of "Half the Way Home: A Memoir of Father and Son" and "The Mirror at Midnight: A South African Journey."

 BODY:

THE LAST EMPIRE
De Beers, Diamonds, and the World.
By Stefan Kanfer.
Illustrated. 409 pp. New York:
Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
$25. 
SOME years ago I interviewed the gold and diamond magnate Harry Oppenheimer in Johannesburg. A man of great, unassuming charm, he had mastered the South African art of sounding enlightened: one jolly well can't deny all these black chaps the vote forever, can one? It was hard to remember that his industrial empire made munitions for the South African police, and that it once equipped the barracks of restive black miners with tear-gas dispensers operated by remote control. All too many reporters never do remember such things, and those who write about Mr. Oppenheimer's multibillion-dollar business kingdom tend to be awe-struck. Happily, Stefan Kanfer is not.
His story is of the oldest part of the kingdom's wealth, the diamonds. It begins in 1867, when a 15-year-old Boer farm boy discovered a glittering stone. Ten years later, Mr. Kanfer tells us, the "Big Hole" at Kimberly was "the largest man-made excavation in the world," a 12-acre bowl 230 feet deep, where 3,500 sweating black laborers filled buckets with diamond-bearing earth, which were then hoisted on cables to the surface, where white claim holders reaped the profits.
Several decades later the Oppenheimer family, German-Jewish immigrants to South Africa, gained control of De Beers Consolidated Mines, the dominant power in the South African diamond fields and therefore in the world diamond market. Before the Oppenheimers there had been a colorful procession of other magnates, from Cecil Rhodes to the eccentric Barney Barnato, who went mad, clawed for diamonds at cracks in the wall and leapt to his death over a ship's railing screaming, "They're after me!" The stories of these men have been told often, but in "The Last Empire" Mr. Kanfer retells them well. He has a fine eye for the striking quote. For example, when Rhodes feared that Rhodesia might lose its name, he cried: "They can't take it away from me, can they? You never heard of a country's name being changed?"

 Despite the fluent, vivid writing, the book sometimes has an armchair feeling about it. This may be unavoidable in covering the 19th century, but when Mr. Kanfer, the author of books on the Holocaust and the blacklisting era in the United States, brings his account up to the present, there is little indication of any talks he may have had with key figures in De Beers or, more important, that he visited a diamond mine and spoke to the people who worked there.
Nonetheless, he tells an important tale. The diamond empire of the Oppenheimers is the world's most enduring cartel. Beside it, OPEC is an unsteady toddler. Diamond prices only go up. The main reason is that whenever someone finds a new source of diamonds, whether in Arkansas or Australia, the helpful investors who immediately appear on the scene are almost always from one of the 1,300 companies around the world affiliated with De Beers. So is the buyer of the patent when an inventor finds a new way of making synthetic industrial diamonds. During World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt placed a huge, urgent order for industrial diamonds with De Beers. Fearing that a quick end to the war might leave the United States with a big surplus, which could send diamond prices plunging, De Beers said no. It claimed that its London storage vaults "had been bombed shut." After much angry pressure, De Beers finally supplied a small fraction of what Roosevelt had asked for.
What does the wielding of such great power mean? Although Mr. Kanfer never says so explicitly, the moral of his story seems to be this: International business no longer inhabits a world where companies try to influence governments. Instead, to the multinational mega-corporations, it makes little difference what kind of government a country has.
Dozens of African nations became independent during the 1960's. If they had diamonds, it did not matter whether they were capitalist (Botswana), socialist (Tanzania) or dictatorial (Zaire), or even if they were at war with South Africa (Angola). De Beers was always there with an offer they couldn't refuse -- in part because they, too, wanted diamond prices high. And for those who did not wish to deal with a company from apartheid South Africa, it was always possible to set up a joint venture with a firm from Luxembourg or Switzerland or the Bahamas.
The most extraordinary such partnership of all was between De Beers and the Soviet Union. South Africa banned the Communist Party and imprisoned every member it could find (until 1990); the Russians gave military training to African National Congress guerrillas. Yet De Beers executives quietly slipped in and out of Moscow, and, for decades, tens of billions of dollars worth of Soviet diamonds passed across the long mahogany table of the De Beers central sales office in London.
At the end of last year, things were looking ominous for the cartel; in his final pages Mr. Kanfer wonders whether it can endure. The world recession had depressed the demand for diamonds; the Soviet Union had dissolved, and Russia was threatening to as well -- with the vast Far Eastern territory of Yakutia, source of one-fourth of the world's diamonds, loudly declaring independence and secretly selling cut-rate diamonds to Japan. However, De Beers has plenty of experience in Africa with countries going independent. Its trouble-shooters have struck new deals with the Russians and the Yakuts. Since Mr. Kanfer finished his book, De Beers has raised the world diamond price once again. Governments fall, entire countries come and go, but diamonds -- and the cartel that controls them -- are forever.

GRAPHIC: Photo: African laborers climbing out of the Big Hole, the De Beers diamond mine in Kimberley, South Africa (From "The Last Empire")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST EMPIRE, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: DBRSY (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (86%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (86%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (78%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

COMPANY: DE BEERS SA (86%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZIMBABWE (78%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CARTELS (89%); DIAMOND MARKETS (89%); DIAMOND MINING (89%); MINE WORKERS (75%); HOLOCAUST (75%); WRITERS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); 

PERSON: HOCHSCHILD, ADAM; KANFER, STEFAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



244 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 11; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
When It Comes to the Hereafter, Romance and Sentiment Rule

BYLINE: By KENNETH M. CHANKO; Kenneth M. Chanko writes about movies and video for Entertainment Weekly and Parenting.

 BODY:
EVER SINCE THE 1937 "TOPPER" became a hit, spawning two sequels and a television series, Hollywood has been dabbling in ghost stories. For decades, movies set in haunted houses were a horror staple. In the past few years, however, it has been fanciful romantic comedies and dramas like "Ghost" (1990), which earned more than $200 million at the box office, and the sentimental "Field of Dreams" (1989), with its baseball-playing ghosts, that seem to beguile Hollywood.
The basic conceit of these ghost movies is that the dearly departed return to guide, reclaim or pester the folks who are left behind. On the heels of two recently released ghost comedies, "Hocus Pocus" and "My Boyfriend's Back," comes the spirits-in-limbo sweepstakes "Heart and Souls," which opens on Friday with Robert Downey Jr. as a mortal with four soul mates. 
 Ron Underwood, like most directors working the territory, has not blown the budget on pie-in-the-sky sets. Few heaven-related movies devote much time to heaven. That would be a bore. The appeal of ghost movies, not hard to understand, is to have dead people take matters in hand and reconnect with the living, which usually turns out to be character-building, or at least comforting, for all.
The draw of such movies is, of course, the primal fear of death and the happy possibility of an afterlife. But most also affirm that a moral code is still operational in the hereafter, and that ghosts will be able to obtain a measure of justice or, failing that, revenge.
The touchstone for many of the recent ghost movies ("Heart and Souls" included) is "It's a Wonderful Life," in which Clarence the guardian angel steers James Stewart back to his family and friends. It is this film's humanistic spirit that movies like "Heart and Souls" try to capture. In uncertain times, the conceit is that everyone has a guardian angel like Clarence. "It's much more comforting when the spirits turn out to be good ones," says Stuart Fischoff, a media psychologist in Los Angeles. "Those movies play very well -- as long as they are nondenominational."
In "Heart and Souls," four people who randomly board a bus in 1959 perish in a crash. Their spirits then witness the birth of baby Thomas (who will grow into Mr. Downey) in a car near the crash site. Perceived by the child's parents as "imaginary friends," these four spirits -- a two-bit thief (Tom Sizemore), a timid would-be singer (Charles Grodin), a young woman (Kyra Sedgwick) trying to reach her boyfriend and a single working mother (Alfre Woodard) -- can be seen and heard only by Thomas. Years later, Thomas (now a callow yuppie) is called on to help the four ghosts right old wrongs and wrap up their lives. Through those good deeds, Thomas learns to value what's really important.
Thus "Heart and Souls" pushes more than the usual number of buttons for a movie of this kind: childhood fears of abandonment are played upon (when Thomas is 7, his angels decide to leave him by making themselves invisible -- for his own good, of course) and the wishes of a single mother are satisfied when she learns how her children fared after her death. And throughout there is the notion that one can form one's own nourishing circle of friends, even if those friends happen to be dead.
Movies like "Heart and Souls" speak to our innermost anxieties, according to Arthur Kovacs, a Los Angeles-based psychologist. Mr. Kovacs believes such films are especially appealing these days. "The hard economic times, our aging population and the continuing erosion of traditional religions among the more educated middle and upper classes contribute to their popularity," he says.
PARTICULARLY SUSCEPTIBLE is the aging baby boomer, who faces a precarious economic future and may be prone to worries about dying (partly because he or she has doubts about an afterlife). By the time baby boomers have reached their late 40's, it's also possible that at least one parent has died. The loss of someone close -- especially in this age of AIDS -- only fuels the kinds of thoughts and yearnings these movies play to.
For Hollywood, the trick is to raise the subject of death without dwelling on it. Diane Keaton's 1987 documentary "Heaven" was a box-office disappointment, and Ms. Keaton has a good idea why. "I don't think most people really want to think too directly or too long about death," she says. For that reason, most of these movies resist overt religious overtones (the few that don't, like "Resurrection" and "The Rapture," pay a price at the box office).
Mr. Underwood, whose last film was "City Slickers," is comfortable working under the halo of secular humanism. "I'm not looking for people to debate the possibility of life after death," he says. "I'd prefer they come out of the theater valuing, here and now, their relationships with loved ones."
The more popular ghost movies have always reflected the times in which they are made. "We've been interested in what happens after death for at least 20,000 years," says Dr. James Lundy, a retired social psychologist and ordained minister in Greensboro, N.C. Dr. Lundy points out, "When religions don't fulfill society's needs or assuage people's fears -- which often involve fears about dying -- popular culture takes over." As much as reflecting our fears, stories about ghosts function as projections of our fantasies.
Take the blithe goings-on in the 30's escapist film "Topper." The Depression didn't burst the bubble of the Kirbys (Cary Grant and Constance Bennett), who traipsed off to places like the Rainbow Room at the drop of a hat. Once they died in a car accident, their good deed consisted of making the timorous Cosmo Topper (Roland Young) as happy-go-lucky as they were.
It isn't difficult to see why a movie like "The Ghost and Mrs. Muir" struck a chord in 1947, with many women trying to get on with their lives after losing husbands in the war. In the film, a young widow with a small child falls in love with the ghost of a handsome sea captain.
Other than the standard haunted-house B movie, the 1950's and early 60's offered few ghost films. Says Dr. Kovacs, "Those movies tend to pop up when society is in turmoil or traditional values are on the wane. We knew what we stood for in the 50's."
Tales involving the spirit world weren't terribly relevant in the late 60's and early 70's, either, since revolutionary cosmic entertainments like "2001: A Space Odyssey" were capturing the imagination. In the post-Vietnam era, Warren Beatty's 1978 film "Heaven Can Wait" (about a football player who is taken before his time and allowed to return to Earth) scored a modest success by positing that one's true love can be found and happiness attained -- even in the most muddled of circumstances. In general, when film makers want to appeal to a young-adult audience (not yet ruminating over its own mortality), romance is played up.
The 80's saw a proliferation of silly, special-effects-laden hits like "Ghostbusters" and "Beetlejuice." Since those were times when thoughts of self-improvement took a back seat to money-making schemes, it's worth noting that in "Ghostbusters" vanquishing the spirits provided gainful employment for the carefree main characters.
" 'Heart and Souls' wouldn't have worked very well in the mid-80's," says Mr. Underwood. "People like Thomas were being championed then for the very things we're now saying aren't what's really important."
Two years after the 1987 stock market crash, which essentially brought the high-flying 80's to an end, along came "Field of Dreams." In that box-office hit, the road to redemption and inner peace for the Kevin Costner character seemed to lead as well to almost-certain financial ruin.
"Ghost" was a notable hybrid in that it played on our doubts and fantasies yet was romantic to boot, which presumably accounts for its huge grosses. The film spent most of its time on the gratifying premise that even after death we remain connected to loved ones.
In the 1991 film "Defending Your Life," Albert Brooks set his entire movie about the afterlife in the Las Vegas-like Judgment City, where people must defend their spiritually hampered lives before progressing to the next level. But the limbo this idiosyncratic film envisions isn't as bad as it first seems. It's a place where you benefit from a not-too-painful analysis. And you can eat all you want and not get fat.
What many recent movies, especially "Heart and Souls," share is a humanistic, nonmaterialistic point of view. "As long as you don't get too preachy or self-righteous about it, people will go for this kind of thing," says Mr. Downey. "With the coming of the millennium, people are ready to look at things differently."
Since you can't take it with you, the rejection of material gain isn't a surprising theme in movies about the spirit world. But there's a certain irony when one considers the purveyor of the message. Sean Daniel, one of the producers of "Heart and Souls," recognizes that when he says, "Isn't it noble of Hollywood to deal with the materialism issue in this way?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kyra Sedgwick and Robert Downey Jr. in "Heart and Souls"--Pushing lots of buttons. (Bruce Talamon/Universal Pictures) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HEART AND SOULS (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); WORKING MOTHERS (72%); BASEBALL (71%); SWEEPSTAKES (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); TICKET SALES (56%); 

PERSON: CHANKO, KENNETH M ROBERT DOWNEY JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



245 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Vancouver, B.C.;
Waterfront Projects Meeting Resistance

BYLINE: By HARRIET KING

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, B.C.

 BODY:
WITH British Columbia's economy and real estate market improving, two local developers have been trying to redevelop the waterfront in two affluent communities across the harbor from downtown Vancouver and have run into opposition on several levels.
Land in the two communities -- North Vancouver and West Vancouver -- is scarce and expensive. The developers, the Larco Group of Companies and the Viam Group, are concentrating on an eight-mile stretch of Marine Drive, proposing new projects and speeding work on those already under way. 
 They have clashed with residents who fear that more traffic and people will change their neighborhoods and with marine-based industries that need the harbor to survive and feel threatened by commercial development.
The communities are linked to downtown by the Lions Gate Bridge. East of the bridge lies North Van, which from downtown looks like a mystical city built on Hollyburn Mountain's lower slopes. At sundown, the windows of its tall office spires, condominiums and hillside homes blaze with reflections.
West of the bridge, where Burrard Inlet empties into Howe Sound, is the resort-like West Van, one of Canada's wealthiest residential areas. And eight miles east is the working harbor for tugboat companies, drydocks, railroads and terminals for grain, potash and coal.
Until 55 years ago, the area -- directly across the bay from renowned Stanley Park -- was accessible only by private boat or ferry. But the Guinness family of England -- famous for stout -- acquired vast tracts there through a company called British Pacific Properties and built many homes. To entice people to move there, the company built the Lions Gate Bridge in 1938. As a further lure, it built Canada's first regional shopping center, Park Royal Shopping Center, on Marine Drive, in 1950.
In 1990, Larco bought the million-square-foot Park Royal mall and is now doing a $20 million revitalization, including 95,000 square feet of streetfront retail space and a golf range, which is expected to open soon.
"The shopping center needed a facelift," said Robert Heaslip, Larco's chief planner. "It looked tired. It was time to look at the retail mix and how we wanted to take the center into the year 2000." The center, which has had major additions through the years, is split by Marine Drive.
"The problem that needed solving was how to give a sense of unity," said John Cochran of the Callison Partnership, the Seattle architects who did the revitalization design. "We needed an upgrade consistent with the charm of the upscale neighborhood."
Mr. Heaslip said Larco was one of 10 investors who owned land on Clyde Avenue, parallel to and a block north of Marine Drive, adjacent to the quaint Park Royal Hotel. They plan to upgrade streets, utilities and landscaping and sell or lease sites for office, retail and residential development.
LARCO also owns a 4.5-acre site a few blocks away. It plans two high-rise residential towers there with 400,000 square feet. The plan would require razing the Capilano Athletic Health Club, now on the site, but the club's owner, whose lease runs to mid-1996 and who has refused Larco's offer of $400,000 for lost business, has vowed to go to court to halt construction.
Some residents say the development will destroy the character of their neighborhood. Larco counters by saying it will put something back into the community by including a community center and 40 units of housing for the elderly. Larco will have to get the city to rezone its site before it can proceed.
Controversy nearly killed a $50 million condominium project on 3.5 acres next to the Park Royal mall. West Vancouver owns the land, which had housed a municipal works yard and a car dealership. In the early 80's the municipality requested proposals from developers on a 99-year lease. The one selected fizzled when the economy soured.
In 1989 the municipality tried again. Viam Group and its proposal for a residential complex won out over four other bidders. Steven Nicholls, West Van's planning director, said that Viam, which had 20 years of construction experience, won partly because it offered to pay $10 million up front for the lease.
But residents grew concerned that the two towers, 18 and 24 stories high, would be out of scale for the neighborhood and that increased traffic would create gridlock on Marine Drive. In a 1989 referendum voters were asked whether they thought the project should be built. They split 50-50. Mr. Nicholls said the district's council, seeing opinion was divided, decided the project should proceed.
Construction recently ended and marketing is under way for the 182 condominum units, which start at $269,500 and average 1,300 square feet.
In West Van's business district, many older stores are being remodeled and on back streets new low-rise stores, offices and houses are being built. The same is true eastward along Marine Drive where a dozen years ago there were few fast-food restaurants; today cafes and pizza houses abound and there are strip malls as far as Lonsdale Avenue, eight miles away.
"Ten years ago we were quite lonely here along the water," says Claire Johnson, president of C.H. Cates & Sons Ltd,. a 108-year-old company at the foot of Londsale that operates 18 tugs on a five-mile stretch of Burrard Inlet between the Lions Gate and Second Narrows Bridges. "The lot next to us was vacant. We used to play horseshoe and volleyball and grow tomatoes there."
Today that lot is Lonsdale Quay and thousands of north shore residents stream onto Seabuses there to speed across the harbor to downtown. Adjacent to the Seabus terminal is a waterfront mall, built in time for Expo '86, with a farmers market, meat and seafood shops, ethnic fast-food restaurants, boutiques and the Lonsdale Quay hotel.
"Change has been dramatic," says Amin Karim, the hotel's general manager. "Upland from Marine Drive the rundown stores are gone, along with the feeling it was not safe to walk the streets at night. Now there are a lot of expensive condos. This is creating an environment for expensive shops."
Cates nearly became a victim of the pressure to sacrifice industry for tourism and commercial development. In the mid-70's while the province was planning the new Seabus terminal, a sheriff's deputy served notice on its owners that the province had expropriated their land. They were ordered to vacate within 30 days. The deputy tried to give them an envelope with a check as property compensation, but they refused it.
"We were in shock," said Mr. Johnson. "For us to pick up and move made no sense. Our business was between the Lions Gate and Second Narrows bridges and our 115 employees live close by."
The company refused to move and in 1981, after a hard-fought battle, it regained title.
SOME people and developers are looking at the potential of the abandoned Versatile Pacific Shipyards, just east of Cates, where the only operating business is the Vancouver Dry Dock. Many developers, municipal officials, businessmen and residents want the Lonsdale Quay retail shops and boutiques to be extended there.
This does not sit well with the Vancouver Port Corporation, an autonomous Federal Crown corporation that owns part of the land, which is valuable to industry because it is a deep-water seaport. The corporation is negotiating with the private owner of the remaining land to acquire the property.
"We want to safeguard this land for future industrial and marine business," says Dietmar Setzer, the corporation's director of property administration. He believes all land east of Lonsdale should be industrial. Community leaders say that if the powerful corporation wants the land it will get it.
James O'Hara, a corporation vice president, says: "Because of the scarcity of land, there is pressure from people who want to move back to the waterfront. But it just doesn't make sense to build a condo next to a grain terminal."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Downtown Vancouver, bottom; at center, rear, West Vancouver is to left, and North Vancouver to right. (Vancouver Trade and Convention Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LARCO GROUP OF COMPANIES; VIAM GROUP

ORGANIZATION: LARCO GROUP OF COMPANIES; VIAM GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (73%); 

PERSON: KING, HARRIET

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



246 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: An Island of Summer Fun in Bridgeport

BYLINE: By VALERIE CRUICE

 BODY:
"IT'S about a mile from 95," a visitor was told as part of the directions to the McGivney Community Center in Bridgeport. "And lock your doors."
For nearly that entire distance, from the exit ramp to the turn off East Main Street in the city's economically depressed East Side, the visitor had an escort of sorts: a battered late-model car with Massachusetts plates traveling slowly yet erratically, with its driver's head turning to one side and then the other, scanning the streets that throbbed with the rhythms of everyday life. 
 Suddenly, without warning, the driver jerked his car over to the curb; a group of young men on a sidewalk caught his attention. He had apparently found what he was looking for -- someone to buy drugs from.
Rising above the shoddy rows of buildings and within sight of such transactions was the tower of St. Charles Borromeo, a Roman Catholic church in whose complex is housed the year-and-a-half-old McGivney Community Center. It is part of a one-square-block fortress against readily available drugs, poverty and ignorance.
 
A Beacon of Sorts
 Outside its metal gates on a nearby street corner sat a lone, battered chair with debris scattered on the ground around it. A drug dealer's office, a visitor was told. And opposite the front door of the McGivney Center, across the street, a more violent beacon languished: a charred house whose former residents had been drug dealers -- mysteriously torched.
They had even tried to sell drugs to the workers renovating the center. But from those ashes will rise a new playground for the children being cared for at the center.
And like the climbing roses conquering a chain-link fence in a tiny yard across the street from St. Charles's own fenced-in complex, the children of the neighborhood are learning how to overcome their boundaries through the nurturing efforts of the McGivney Center.
Over the next few weeks, about 100 children 7 through 12 will be attending McGivney Summer Fun, a day camp that operates Monday through Friday. They are fed breakfast and lunch, learn about computers, arts and crafts and play sports, and several times a week are taken to nearby outdoor camps for swimming and other recreation. Many of the children learn -- for perhaps the first time -- how it feels to have rules, be safe and be cared for.
 
Instilling Values
 "In the midst of many of their lives, there's chaos," said the director of the camp, Anthony Tozzi, who is 38 years old. The camp addresses that by having tight security, being highly organized and focused and by instilling values, he explained.
"We have a tradition of God, country and self, which we've lost in America," he continued.
After a federally subsidized breakfast for the children, Mr. Tozzi holds an assembly in which three things are always done: "All the kids close their eyes and have a silent prayer. Even if an individual is not religious, it gives the kids the opportunity to reflect. Then we do the Pledge of Allegiance, and it's said with pride. Then we go into self. One of the counselors will lead the entire group in an exercise program," he said.
From there the counselors and their groups start scheduled activities. Over a vast expanse of highly polished gym floor, children were making an intricate spider web out of yarn, while on the stage at one end, games were being played at numerous tables. At the other end, boys patiently waited their turns to shoot a basketball, carefully studying an older boy's technique.
 
Learning About Computers
 Upstairs, in what was once the parish hall's balcony and are now air-conditioned classrooms and offices, girls were quietly engrossed in lacing change purses in the arts and crafts room, and down the hall, learning about computers.
"Press enter, two players," said Lillian Torres, who is 18 years old and the computer teacher, as she ambled among the dozen 11-to-13-year-olds. "Maria, type your name."
Different computer games were in progress, the girls staring intently at the screens. Tania Serrano and Yamayra Mendez were concentrating hard on the Wheel of Fortune. "Dutchess of blank blank NDSOR" was on the screen. Yamayra turned to a visitor and entreated, "Help me?"
"Buy a vowel," came the response.
"An I."
Tania figured it out.
 
Role Model
 Miss Torres, their teacher, said it was hard to get the children out and on to their next activity, so popular is the computer program. Valedictorian of the local high school, Miss Torres is a role model for the young girls; she is headed to Connecticut College on a full scholarship this fall, because of her gift for computers.
Like Miss Torres, the counselors and staff are from the neighborhood and are hand-picked and trained by Mr. Tozzi, who has been affiliated with St. Charles for nine years and is also a resident of Bridgeport. What he looks for is "some level of energy to emulate" for the 7-to-12-year-old campers. And they don't all have to be at the top of their class: "Success is being the best you can be," he said to his counselors. They've all been trained in C.P.R. and first aid, and keep daily diaries.
Several times a week the campers are taken on trips. They visit state parks, Y.M.C.A. camps in New Britain and Greenwich and other day camps.
"We're looking to get these kids out, to meet other kids. They have to get out of these boundaries; get out and see there's other places, kids, the outside. They need to break down these walls. And they have to learn how to function in society, how to be accepting and how to be accepted," Mr. Tozzi said.
 
'A Perfect Father'
 What about discipline? "It's talking and reinforcing. What's going on with the kids? Where's the problem coming from? The more organized you are, the less you have to discipline your kids. If we need to, we get the parents involved, and as a last resort, we take charge. You have to be a perfect father," said Mr. Tozzi, a parent himself.
Besides keeping the children occupied during the summer vacation time, the McGivney Community Center runs programs during the school year.
How does the center get the children through the door? Anthony Forni, a retired General Electric executive who came up with the idea for the community center and serves on its board, explained that the center's strategy was "to attract them through sports and recreation programs."
"Then we motivate them to stay in school; it's a cliche, but our belief is the only way out of poverty is through education."
 
Logo Sends a Message
 And nowhere is this philosophy more evident than on the gymnasium floor, where the huge McGivney Community Center logo is painted; a basketball, a baseball bat and a book.
After school, youngsters can get help with their homework as well as computer training, participate in team sports and work at arts and crafts.
A video program has been organized for teen-agers in addition to an enormously popular eight-team basketball league, and supervised Friday night dances for teen-agers. There is a parenting program run by Save the Children, and a social worker is available to parents and children.
In the works is a cultural-arts program, which is being supported by the Southport Showhouse. More than $110,000 was raised for programs in dance, theater, music and video communications.
Children pay $5 to $15 a year, depending on age, to use the McGivney Community Center. "The reason we charge is to be sure every child understands the McGivney Center has value. However, we never turn a child away who cannot pay. We have donors who pay for the fee," said Mr. Forni. For a child to attend the summer fun camp, the fee is $15 for the entire six-week period. There is a waiting list.
At the end of the busy day, the campers and counselors assemble in the gym for an orderly dismissal, group by group. Before the doors are unlocked, however, sometimes Mr. Tozzi will talk about walking home, what to look for, especially for those campers who are not picked up.
"You have to constantly reinforce their awareness, without instilling fear," he said.
And whether it's street smarts or booting up a computer, the youngsters leave the fortress wearing a little more armor than before -- knowledge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yougsters in the McGivney Community Center summer program as they played, above and at left, in courtyard of the St. Charles Borromeo Roman Catholic Church in Bridgeport. Below, taking a break for lunch. (Photographs by Judith Pszenica for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGEPORT (CONN) UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CAMPS AND CAMPING CHILDREN (86%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); RELIGION (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (57%); 

PERSON: CRUICE, VALERIE SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1993



247 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS: Vancouver, B.C.;
Waterfront Projects Meeting Resistance

BYLINE: By HARRIET KING

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, B.C.

 BODY:
WITH British Columbia's economy and real estate market improving, two local developers have been trying to redevelop the waterfront in two affluent communities across the harbor from downtown Vancouver and have run into opposition on several levels.
 Land in the two communities -- North Vancouver and West Vancouver -- is scarce and expensive. The developers, the Larco Group of Companies and the Viam Group, are concentrating on an eight-mile stretch of Marine Drive, proposing new projects and speeding work on those already under way. 
They have clashed with residents who fear that more traffic and people will change their neighborhoods and with marine-based industries that need the harbor to survive and feel threatened by commercial development.
 The communities are linked to downtown by the Lions Gate Bridge. East of the bridge lies North Van, which from downtown looks like a mystical city built on Hollyburn Mountain's lower slopes. At sundown, the windows of its tall office spires, condominiums and hillside homes blaze with reflections.
 West of the bridge, where Burrard Inlet empties into Howe Sound, is the resort-like West Van, one of Canada's wealthiest residential areas. And eight miles east is the working harbor for tugboat companies, drydocks, railroads and terminals for grain, potash and coal.
 Until 55 years ago, the area -- directly across the bay from renowned Stanley Park -- was accessible only by private boat or ferry. But the Guinness family of England -- famous for stout -- acquired vast tracts there through a company called British Pacific Properties and built many homes. To entice people to move there, the company built the Lions Gate Bridge in 1938. As a further lure, it built Canada's first regional shopping center, Park Royal Shopping Center, on Marine Drive, in 1950.
 In 1990, Larco bought the million-square-foot Park Royal mall and is now doing a $20 million revitalization, including 95,000 square feet of streetfront retail space and a golf range, which is expected to open soon.
 "The shopping center needed a facelift," said Robert Heaslip, Larco's chief planner. "It looked tired. It was time to look at the retail mix and how we wanted to take the center into the year 2000." The center, which has had major additions through the years, is split by Marine Drive.
 "The problem that needed solving was how to give a sense of unity," said John Cochran of the Callison Partnership, the Seattle architects who did the revitalization design. "We needed an upgrade consistent with the charm of the upscale neighborhood."
 Mr. Heaslip said Larco was one of 10 investors who owned land on Clyde Avenue, parallel to and a block north of Marine Drive, adjacent to the quaint Park Royal Hotel. They plan to upgrade streets, utilities and landscaping and sell or lease sites for office, retail and residential development.
 LARCO also owns a 4.5-acre site a few blocks away. It plans two high-rise residential towers there with 400,000 square feet. The plan would require razing the Capilano Athletic Health Club, now on the site, but the club's owner, whose lease runs to mid-1996 and who has refused Larco's offer of $400,000 for lost business, has vowed to go to court to halt construction.
 Some residents say the development will destroy the character of their neighborhood. Larco counters by saying it will put something back into the community by including a community center and 40 units of housing for the elderly. Larco will have to get the city to rezone its site before it can proceed.
 Controversy nearly killed a $50 million condominium project on 3.5 acres next to the Park Royal mall. West Vancouver owns the land, which had housed a municipal works yard and a car dealership. In the early 80's the municipality requested proposals from developers on a 99-year lease. The one selected fizzled when the economy soured.
 In 1989 the municipality tried again. Viam Group and its proposal for a residential complex won out over four other bidders.
 Steven Nicholls, West Van's planning director, said that Viam, which had 20 years of construction experience, won partly because it offered to pay $10 million up front for the lease.
 But residents grew concerned that the two towers, 18 and 24 stories high, would be out of scale for the neighborhood and that increased traffic would create gridlock on Marine Drive. In a 1989 referendum voters were asked whether they thought the project should be built. They split 50-50. Mr. Nicholls said the district's council, seeing opinion was divided, decided the project should proceed.
 Construction recently ended and marketing is under way for the 182 condominum units, which start at $269,500 and average 1,300 square feet.
 In West Van's business district, many older stores are being remodeled and on back streets new low-rise stores, offices and houses are being built. The same is true eastward along Marine Drive where a dozen years ago there were few fast-food restaurants; today cafes and pizza houses abound and there are strip malls as far as Lonsdale Avenue, eight miles away.
 "Ten years ago we were quite lonely here along the water," says Claire Johnson, president of C.H. Cates & Sons Ltd,. a 108-year-old company at the foot of Londsale that operates 18 tugs on a five-mile stretch of Burrard Inlet between the Lions Gate and Second Narrows Bridges. "The lot next to us was vacant. We used to play horseshoe and volleyball and grow tomatoes there."
 Today that lot is Lonsdale Quay and thousands of north shore residents stream onto Seabuses there to speed across the harbor to downtown. Adjacent to the Seabus terminal is a waterfront mall, built in time for Expo '86, with a farmers market, meat and seafood shops, ethnic fast-food restaurants, boutiques and the Lonsdale Quay hotel.
 "Change has been dramatic," says Amin Karim, the hotel's general manager. "Upland from Marine Drive the rundown stores are gone, along with the feeling it was not safe to walk the streets at night. Now there are a lot of expensive condos. This is creating an environment for expensive shops."
 Cates nearly became a victim of the pressure to sacrifice industry for tourism and commercial development. In the mid-70's while the province was planning the new Seabus terminal, a sheriff's deputy served notice on its owners that the province had expropriated their land. They were ordered to vacate within 30 days. The deputy tried to give them an envelope with a check as property compensation, but they refused it.
 "We were in shock," said Mr. Johnson. "For us to pick up and move made no sense. Our business was between the Lions Gate and Second Narrows bridges and our 115 employees live close by."
 The company refused to move and in 1981, after a hard-fought battle, it regained title.
 SOME people and developers are looking at the potential of the abandoned Versatile Pacific Shipyards, just east of Cates, where the only operating business is the Vancouver Dry Dock. Many developers, municipal officials, businessmen and residents want the Lonsdale Quay retail shops and boutiques to be extended there.
 This does not sit well with the Vancouver Port Corporation, an autonomous Federal Crown corporation that owns part of the land, which is valuable to industry because it is a deep-water seaport. The corporation is negotiating with the private owner of the remaining land to acquire the property.
 "We want to safeguard this land for future industrial and marine business," says Dietmar Setzer, the corporation's director of property administration.
 He believes all land east of Lonsdale should be industrial. Community leaders say that if the powerful corporation wants the land it will get it.
 James O'Hara, a corporation vice president, says: "Because of the scarcity of land, there is pressure from people who want to move back to the waterfront. But it just doesn't make sense to build a condo next to a grain terminal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Downtown Vancouver, bottom; at center, rear, West Vancouver is to left, and North Vancouver to right. (Vancouver Trade and Convention Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VANCOUVER (BC) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (97%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (73%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: KING, HARRIET

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993



248 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
MINE KILLS 4 G.I.'s IN SOMALIA
Four U.S. soldiers were killed by a mine in Somalia, bringing to 12 the number of American troops killed there since December. A1
 
EUROPE HURT BY WELFARE COSTS
The rising costs of welfare programs for the disabled, the infirm, the elderly and the unemployed in Europe are threatening its future. A1 

STORM KILLS 100 IN VENEZUELA
A storm hit Venezuela, killing about 100 people, injuring 400 and leaving 4,000 homeless around Caracas. The casualty toll is expected to rise. A5
 
CABINET IS NAMED IN JAPAN
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa announced a cabinet dominated by former members of the Liberal Democratic Party. A7
 
SERB OFFERS TO LEAVE MOUNTAINS
The top Bosnian Serb commander said his forces would withdraw from two strategic mountains if the U.N. took control of the areas. A3
 
The U.S. is not expected to seek a quick decision from NATO. A3
 
Bureaucracy imperils the lives of a wounded Bosnian child. A3
 
CHINA ACCUSES U.S. OF BULLYING
The U.S. has asked China to recall a ship that Washington says is taking materials for nerve and mustard gas to Iran. China, denying this, accuses the U.S. of bullying. A6
 
BOMB KILLS 10 INDIAN MILITANTS
At least 10 members of a militant Hindu group were killed when a bomb ripped through its headquarters in southern India. A6
 
RIFT WITH P.L.O. MAY HURT TALKS
Three top members of the Palestinian delegation to the Mideast peace talks threatened to resign because of a dispute with Yasir Arafat. A2
 
Yerevan Journal: The travails of landlocked Armenia. A4
 
National A10-12, B8-10
 
BYE BUDGET, HELLO HEALTH CARE
President Clinton and his advisers are now turning their attention to the new health care plan they hope to unveil in six weeks. A1
 
REFINANCING TO CUT DEBT
Low interest rates are leading an increasing number of people to refinance their homes -- not to reduce their payments but to pay off their debt faster, thus building equity and cutting anticipated interest costs by thousands of dollars. A1
 
VYING FOR MILITARY COMMAND
Denizens of the Pentagon are watching intently as the nation's top military leaders jockey to succeed Gen. Colin Powell as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A1
 
DEFINING CATHOLIC FOR THE YOUNG
A generation of young Roman Catholics, unfamiliar with many of the Church's rites, is questioning just what it means to be Catholic. A1
 
EARTHQUAKE SHAKES GUAM
The world's strongest earthquake in four years jolted Guam, knocking cars off bridges and damaging hotels, but killing no one. A10
 
BATTLING FOR HELP FROM FEMA
Those who have lost houses and jobs to the flood in the Midwest say red tape at the Federal Emergency Management Agency has made their troubles worse. A10
 
SHARING THE TRAIL WITH BIKES
A few miles from where the first mountain bike was built 20 years ago, residents of Mount Tamalpais have not accepted its constant presence on the roads. A10
 
STRETCHING THE BILL TO FIT ALL
One of the primary forces behind the narrow passage of the budget bill was the Senate majority leader, George Mitchell, who kept trying to make everyone happy. B8
 
RENO WOWS HER OWN KIND
Attorney General Janet Reno won a ballroom-full of supporters during her appearance at the American Bar Association convention. B10
 
Jurors said the sentences in the Rodney King case were too light. A11
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A BITE OUT OF THE APPLE?
The Staten Island secession movement, once dismissed as pointless grousing from a borough angered by its diminished role in city government, has grown in recent years into a powerful shout of resentment that will go to a vote Nov. 2. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports C1-9
 
Baseball: Mattingly rescues Yanks. C1
Pirates edge Mets. C5
Saberhagen to go on disabled list. C5
Yanks' Jean outstanding in debut. C7
Blue Jays fall to Brewers. C7
Astros' Portugal stymies Giants. C5
Column: Smith on Yankees. C7
Football: Concern mounts over Roberts' heart problem. C1
Jets' Coleman's start may finish soon. C4
Cowboys struggle to tie in England. C4
Parcells is old self with Patriots. C5
49ers' Young breaks thumb. C4
Golf: Price finally finds success. C3
Horse Racing: Jerkens is master of mystery. C9
Sports People C9
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
On chess and childhood. C11
Dvorak is celebrated in Iowa. C11
Theater: "Heartbeats." C14
Music: Santa Fe Opera. C11
A jazz "Battle Royale." C13
Tim Berne, saxophonist. C14
Dance: Mime festival. C12
Books: "Bloodties: Nature, Culture and the Hunt." C14
Television: The talk in Britain. C11
 
Obituaries B12
 
Christopher Gillis, a dancer and choreographer.
Louis Sheaffer, a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer of Eugene O'Neill.
Viktor P. Polyanichko, Russia's top administrative official the Caucasus.
Jack Peters, an ex-president of J. Walter Thompson Company.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
U.S. troops for a U.N. army.
An education dream hits reality.
New York's fiscal picture: cloudy.
Roger M. Pang: "Rising Sun."
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Tragedy and farce.
William Safire: NATO vs. the U.N. in Bosnia.
Lawrence J. Korb: A woman's place is in the Pentagon.
James Howard Kunstler: Zoned for destruction.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Bridge C13
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH INDIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMALIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RELIGION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); BULLYING (67%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



249 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH CARE PLAN MOVES TO CENTER OF POLITICAL STAGE

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 8

 BODY:
The battle of the budget now behind them, President Clinton and his advisers are turning to overhauling the health care system, hoping to complete their plan within six weeks and begin an intensive public campaign for the idea of secure and universal health insurance.
White House aides and Democratic strategists in Congress say they have learned valuable lessons from the exhausting struggle over the President's economic plan. Still wincing from the Republicans' success at casting the plan as old-style taxing and spending, these Democrats say the drive for health care legislation must be more bipartisan. And from the start, they argue, it must be sold to the public far more aggressively. 
 The sales campaign is already well under way. In the next few days, lawmakers will be presented with a briefing book that, according to a draft copy, begins to make the case for "The Clinton Health Security Plan: Health care that's always there."
 
Broad Outlines Known
 The draft, which describes the Clinton effort in general, thematic terms, says its basic goal is "making sure that Americans will never again lose their health coverage."
The broad outlines of Mr. Clinton's plan have been widely discussed in recent months: It will center on community insurance purchasing cooperatives, known as health alliances, that will pool the bargaining power of small businesses and individuals to, presumably, get the highest quality, lowest cost health plans. It is expected to establish a package of benefits that will be guaranteed to all Americans and to require employers to help pay for part of those benefits.
Still, Mr. Clinton has yet to sign off on the plan, and some of the most politically sensitive decisions are yet to be made.
Senate Republicans, in the meantime, are trying to reach a consensus of their own on a health care overhaul, and plan to produce their own legislation in the fall.
 
Laying the Groundwork
 The public campaign will escalate in the coming days. Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is heading the Administration's task force on health care, will be wooing the American Hospital Association in Orlando, Fla., on Monday, and Mr. Clinton will deliver a major speech on health care to the National Governors' Association on Aug. 16.
Ira C. Magaziner, the White House domestic policy adviser who has led the effort on health, argued in an interview this weekend that the Administration had taken pains to lay the Congressional groundwork for the plan.
"I think we've had a couple of hundred meetings now up on the Hill, with both the House and the Senate, and on both sides of the aisle," Mr. Magaziner said. "It's been a consultative process. They didn't have that luxury with the economic plan."
Still, with the health package now scheduled for public presentation in mid or late September, Mr. Magaziner's optimism is not universally shared. In part, that reflects the complexity of a subject that has tormented Presidents at least since Harry S. Truman, and that engages the competing egos and interests of the most powerful barons in Congress, some of whom see Mr. Magaziner as a naif.
Philosophical differences run deep on how to structure the health care system, both within the Democratic Party and between Democrats and Republicans.
 
Fears Roused by Bitter Fight
 Advocates of changes in health care also worry that the bitter, exceedingly close fight over the economic plan has made a hard job even harder. It heightened the aversion to new taxes, gave partisan divisions a razor edge and sent a message to interest groups about the willingness of this Administration and this Congress to deal, some of the advocates say.
"We can't afford to have health care reform be characterized as just another tax bill," said John Rother, legislative director for the American Association of Retired Persons, "and we certainly can't afford to have it mired in more partisan posturing."
Mr. Rother, who is also chairman of a coalition of groups seeking an overhaul of the health care system, added: "What started out, really, in the State of the Union speech as a high moral call for shared sacrifice in the end degenerated into horse trading and typical special interest tactics. We can't do health reform that way. We have to see a greater leadership and a greater public will to stand against all the exceptions and loopholes that will inevitably threaten the comprehensiveness of the health reform effort."
Michael Bromberg, executive director of the Federation of American Health Systems, which represents for-profit hospitals, said flatly: "One lesson is that if the politicians think you're a bunch of wimps they're going to take advantage of you. So we have to be forceful. If you look at the gas people and the restaurant people, the people who yelled the loudest did the best."
 
Financing Is Major Issue
 All of this remains a theoretical discussion until the Administration lays its plan on the table.
Most closely watched will be how Mr. Clinton comes down on the issues of financing and how to cover those not now insured. At the moment, his advisers are leaning toward a system that would require employers to pay part of the insurance premiums for their workers but would set a cap on the premiums to ease the burden on small businesses. They are also leaning toward "sin taxes," like a higher tax on cigarettes.
Still, Administration officials are trying to dispel the idea that the health care plan will mean major new taxes. "Part of it's going to be paid for by savings, and that has to be kept in mind," Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said today on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "I think what you're going to see is building on the base of the present system, the employer-provided health care, building on that one, and you will see some subsidies for small business."
Mr. Magaziner said he expected Mr. Clinton to move smoothly and quickly into the final round of decisions and meetings on the health care plan. "He knows a tremendous amount about health care," Mr. Magaziner said. "During the course of March and April he spent upwards of 30 hours in briefings. He was up to speed on it and we were fairly close to finalizing decisions."
Still, the timetable for health care legislation has already slipped repeatedly, and Mr. Bentsen acknowledged today what had long been taken for granted on Capitol Hill: While the plan will be announced in September, he said, actual votes on it will "probably slide into next year."
 
Focusing on Guarantee
 The draft of the briefing book for lawmakers shows a general political road map of the coming struggle: It talks about the problem of rising health care costs, the holes in the existing system and the risks of simply preserving the status quo. It describes the Clinton plan only in the most general terms of its commitment to universal coverage, to the guarantee that "you will never lose your insurance," to a benefits package "that is as comprehensive as those offered by most Fortune 500 companies."
It says the Clinton plan will not require "any broad-based new tax" and will be rooted, like the existing system, in employer-paid premiums.
The Senate's Republicans, under the leadership of Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, have been trying to reach some consensus of their own on health care change. A spokesman for Mr. Chafee said 24 Republican senators had signed on to a broad statement of principles in recent weeks, including support for health insurance purchasing cooperatives and opposition to any requirement that employers provide insurance.
 
Republicans Plan Own Version
 And while the Republicans hope to present their version of health care legislation this fall, Mr. Chafee for now has been sounding a note of bipartisan cooperation. Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, did the same today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."
In general, many strategists say the Republicans face a far greater risk in seeming to be obstructionists on health care change than on the budget and the deficit reduction plan.
For all of that, some Democratic strategists said they actually looked forward to the debate on health care. "For the Democratic Party, it's an opportunity to define ourselves positively, to show why we came here -- not just to clean up after the last decade but to provide something positive," said Representative Vic Fazio, the California Democrat who heads the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
But nobody is predicting it will be easy. "I think health care is going to make this bill look like a picnic," said Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, after the grueling budget debate and vote last week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the budget battle over, President Clinton is about to begin an intensive public campaign to overhaul the health care system. He greeted a crowd yesterday outside a restaurant in Washington. (Associated Press) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH CARE PLAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CORPORATIONS; SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); SALES & SELLING (76%); HOSPITALS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC ENTITY LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); GOVERNORS (67%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



250 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Owners Refinancing Homes To Cut Debt, Not Payments

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
When Patricia Fox realized that lower interest rates would allow her to pay off the mortgage on her three-bedroom ranch house in Brookhaven, L.I., in 15 years instead of 30, with only a $100 increase in her payments, she leaped at the opportunity.
Confounding the expectations of some economists, a growing number of people like Ms. Fox are taking advantage of low interest rates and refinancing their houses not to cut their payments but to pay off their debts faster, thus building equity and cutting their anticipated interest costs, often by tens of thousands of dollars. 
 "People are using this windfall as a device for saving," said Robert Van Order, the chief economist for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac, a Government-created mortgage financing company that is one of the main sources of credit for American home buyers. "In normal times, 15-year mortgages tend to be about 15 percent of our purchases. Lately, they've been about a third."
While the value of houses is not formally counted as part of a household's savings, housing purchases have traditionally been a way for Americans to accumulate wealth. Indeed, houses are often a family's most valuable asset and one the Government subsidizes through tax deductions for mortgages.
 
Real Estate Climate Changes
 When housing prices soared in the 1980's, most consumers took the biggest, longest mortgages they could get, with the lowest monthly payments, and counted on rising prices to effectively increase the value of the house. Now, with prices steady or rising only slowly and income growth having stalled, the psychology has changed: economists say many people are looking more than ever to build equity fast, in effect saving money in their houses.
"It's almost like a forced savings plan," said George H. Felker, the vice president and sales manager for residential lending at the Apple Bank for Savings in New York. "It's an excellent tool for people who are maybe not savers. At the end of the 15 years, they'll have all the equity in their home."
A third of those who are refinancing 30-year mortgages are switching to new 15-year mortgages, according to Freddie Mac. In places, the portion is even higher: at the Greater New York Savings Bank, 61 percent of the fixed-rate refinancings this year have gone to 15-year mortgages, said Russell G. Matthews, the executive vice president and chief lending officer.
Sanford R. Goodkin, a San Diego real estate consultant, said many people think of their houses as savings accounts. "The biggest effect of shorter-term refinancing is that it saves tons of interest," he said. "Before, people were taking a lot of money and stuffing it into the piggy bank every month, and a lot of it was falling on the floor. But now almost all of it's getting into the slot."
The fact that this money is being used to reduce mortgage debt, rather than being spent on refrigerators or cars or apparel, may come as good news to those concerned that America is a country of spenders, not savers. But since it is coming at a time when economic growth remains sluggish, the move to pay off debt is bad news for retailers and others -- including officials of the Clinton Administration -- who have expected that reduced mortgage payments would translate into higher retail sales and faster economic growth.
The wave of refinancings started a couple of years ago, as interest rates dropped sharply. Last year, about 3.6 million people refinanced mortgages totaling about $429 billion, and almost as many are expected to refinance this year, according to David Lereah, the chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, an industry group in Washington.
The terms available to Ms. Fox are fairly typical. She had a 30-year mortgage at 9.5 percent taken out three years ago. When she refinanced with the Greater New York Savings Bank, she barely considered a 30-year mortgage at a lower rate because she wanted to pay for the house while she was still working -- and to build equity that could be used, if needed, for college costs for her two children.
 
More Than $100,000 Saved
 Her new payments on her 6.78 percent mortgage are $1,471 a month, $100 more than the old payment on her 30-year, $92,000 mortgage. With the lower interest rate and the 15-year loan, she cuts her anticipated payments over the life of the mortgage by $114,094. With the lower rates and a 30-year mortgage, she would have cut her payments by only $34,705.
"It bothered me very much that with my 30-year mortgage I wouldn't have had my house paid for until my 70's," said Ms. Fox, who is 47, an elementary school teacher who refinanced her home in the spring. "But now I feel that I will have something to show for all my years of work when I'm 62."
Attitudes toward the economy are an important factor in these refinancings, said Robert W. Johnson, a senior research associate at the Credit Research Center at Purdue University.
"It may be a reflection of consumers' great uncertainty about what the future holds," he said. "When consumers get uncertain about the future, they tend to not go into debt, or pay off their debts faster. In the last recession, consumers were nervous enough to make substantial reductions in their consumer credit."
Consumers' misgivings about their investing prowess could also be giving impetus to the 15-year mortgage. While economists often counsel people to take longer-term mortgages and invest their cash savings at a higher return, many people seem to feel they are not disciplined enough as savers, and would spend the money rather than save it.
Furthermore, even those who may have the discipline to invest the difference might not see the rewards as being great enough. While returns of 7 percent and higher are available, those earnings would be reduced by taxes and might involve financial risks. The mortgage payments, in contrast, are effectively shared by the Government, since they are tax deductible, which reduces the cost to the home owner.
And, as Sidney Lenz, the executive vice president at the Countrywide Funding Corporation in Pasadena, Calif., said, "You can't make a lot of money on your money without having a real high-risk investment."
While many economists said they thought some broad conclusions could be drawn about Americans' desire to save, there was a contrarian view. Ms. Lenz, for example, said consumer education was a big factor in the switch. "I think it has to do with the fact that consumers are so much more aware of what's available, what they can do and what the savings are," she said. "The advantage of a 15-year loan has always been there, if you could afford it."
 
Flip Side to Short Mortgages
 There is a downside to having a shorter mortgage term. Mr. Johnson noted that despite the interest savings on a 15-year mortgage, inflation causes the dollars paid in years 16 through 30 of a 30-year mortgage to be worth less than current dollars.
"The mortgage is probably the cheapest money the consumer is ever going to get," Mr. Johnson said. "You wonder why consumers, when they're getting what might be the all-time low rate on borrowing, choose to spread that all-time low rate over 15 years rather than 30."
People who choose to refinance at 30 years may be considering this factor or others, including the length of time they expect to be in their homes. Another element may be the homeowners' ages -- younger people, who are among the first-time buyers, may not have enough equity to refinance or may find a 30-year mortgage more acceptable because they are not yet thinking of paying a mortgage during their retirement.
Still another argument for taking the longest mortgage possible might be to reduce payments for fear of losing a job and not having enough income to cover a higher payment.
Assessing the effects on the economy of shorter-term refinancings is difficult. As of the end of June, the Federal Reserve Board estimated, American consumers were saving $2.7 billion a month as a result of refinancing fixed-rate mortgages and declining rates on adjustable-rate mortgages since the beginning of 1991. There are no figures representing the amount of money not saved as a result of refinancing at shorter terms -- or the amount savings could increase when the mortgages are paid off sooner.
While housing payments for those who refinance in the shorter term might stay the same or go up, economists said it was not clear whether the failure of that money to enter the consumer economy was having a negative effect on the recovery. For every borrower with less money to spend on consumer goods, there is a lender with more money to lend to other borrowers, and that can stimulate the economy in other ways.
"Long-term, it bodes well," Mr. Goodkin, the real estate consultant, said. "Fifteen years from now we'll have a big boom, because everybody will be burning their mortgages at the same time."
As the refinancing frenzy continues, bankers and analysts say they are seeing repeat refinancings. Some customers, Ms. Lenz said, have refinanced "every six months over the last two and a half years," finding that despite the costs of refinancing they still come out ahead.
One person who refinanced a fairly recent refinancing is Michelle Dorry-Kananowicz, a 34-year-old nurse who lives with her husband, Eugene, 37, a New York firefighter, and their five-year-old son, Thomas, in a two-bedroom Cape Cod style house in West Hempstead, L.I.
Cherie Chavitz, a loan representative with the Greater New York Savings Bank, helped the family exchange a 30-year mortgage at 9.75 percent that they negotiated 18 months ago for a 15-year mortgage of $122,000 at 7.1 percent. The old monthly payment was $1,389; the new one is $1,381, and, Mrs. Dorry-Kananowicz said, "We've got 15 years off our mortgage."
Mrs. Dorry-Kananowicz said she had been apprehensive about the economy, unsure about what to expect from Social Security upon her retirement and eager to pay the loan principal down quickly. Besides, she said, money might be needed later for college bills, and the house is the family's biggest investment.
"When I told my mother, she said, 'What are you, crazy?"' Mrs. Dorry-Kananowicz said. "She told me that the mortgage is the only thing that's tax deductible any more. And I said, everybody's into debt consolidation, to get rid of debt as soon as possible."


GRAPHIC: Refinancing can lower monthly payments or reduce costs over the term of the loan. Here are two examples.
 
CURRENT MORTGAGE (Closed Sept. 1, 1980)
Graphs: "Tale of 2 Mortgages"
 Term: 30 years
 Interest rate: 9.5%
 Monthly payment: $841
 Original loan amount: $100,000
 Remaining interest payments to maturity*: $174,439
 
REFINANCING (Closing Sept. 1, 1993)
 
Saving Over The Long Term
 Term: 15 years
 Interest rate: 7.0%
 Monthly payment: $881
Balance of principle: $98,000
 Interest payments to maturity: $60,553
 Closing costs: $1,500
 Savings over term of loan: $112,386
 
OR LOWERING MONTHLY PAYMENTS
 Term: 30 years
 Interest rate: 7.5%
 Monthly payment: $685
 Balance of principle: $98,000
 Interest payments to maturity: $148,683
 Closing costs: $1,500
 Savings over term of loan: $24,256
 
*Does not include the first three years of interest payments.
 
(Source: The Greater New York Savings Bank) (pg. D12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); GREATER NEW YORK SAVINGS BANK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%); 

PERSON: PINDER, JEANNE B

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



251 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Saltwater Fishing

 BODY:
Commercial fishing catches have increased 59 percent in area waters over the last five years, a change that is most likely cyclical, marine officials say. In 1992 the area's largest commercial producer, New Jersey, ranked seventh in the nation. The ranking rests largely on the catch of shellfish, which account for 55 percent of the total. New Jersey's largest non-shellfish catch is of Menhaden, a common bait fish, at more than 27 million pounds in 1992. In contrast, the area's recreational fishing harvest has declined, due partly to the region's sluggish economy and also since a Federal law went into effect limiting andlers to 10 bluefish (the most popular sporting fish on the East Coast) a day. New York and Connecticut, but not New Jersey, extended the law to state waters, and New York's recreational catch fell by about 50 percent from 1992 to 1992.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Annual Catch" shows the annual catch in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. "What the Catch Brings In" shows how much revenue the catches in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut bring in. (Sources: National Marine FIsheries Service; Marine Recreational Fisheries Statistics Survey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL SPORT FISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); FISHES (90%); CITIES (74%); COMMERCIAL FISHERIES LANDINGS (59%); FINFISH FISHING (59%); SHELLFISH FISHING (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



252 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2685 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Recession Prompts New Look at Welfare Costs

SERIES: A Continent Adrift -- Second of five articles.

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: THE HAGUE

 BODY:
Hans vander Valk, a former assistant professor at Delft University, is suffering from an ailment that has attained epidemic proportions in the Netherlands: stress. So he has stopped working and for the last three years has been collecting $1,630 a month in disability benefits.
"The doctor said I was suffering from stress because I was so worried about obtaining research money and so obsessed with colleagues' talking behind my back, I was finding it very hard to relax," Mr. vander Valk, a 48-year-old physicist, said. He is vaguely contemplating some other line of work, but meanwhile is assured of his disability pay until the age of 65. 
 Rene Jansen, an official at the Ministry for Social Affairs, said 912,000 people, or about 18 percent of the work force of the Netherlands, receive disability pay. Confounding the stereotype of a nation of placid burghers, nearly a third of those recipients suffer from "stress."
"The thing about stress," Mr. Jansen said, "is that it is extremely subjective."
What is starkly clear is that the ballooning costs of social welfare programs for the disabled, the infirm, the elderly and the unemployed in Europe are threatening the Continent's economic future. In Spain, there is now one person receiving a social security benefit for every one working.
As a result the welfare state, the crowning achievement of Social Democratic and Christian Democratic governments in postwar Europe and a model from which the Clinton Administration wants to borrow, is under unprecedented strain.
While it has safeguarded Western Europe from the extremes of poverty and alienation that haunt many American cities, the system has become so costly -- often adding as much as 50 percent to labor costs through payroll taxes -- that it may be shutting Europe out of business in an increasingly competitive global economy.
"Every time we're asked to give up a benefit, we're told we're now in direct competition with Taiwan," said Bill Tynan, an official of Britain's Amalgamated Engineering and Electrical Union. "The message from executives to workers is, if you don't cede on labor costs, we're going elsewhere."
Swissair has done just that with one of its business units. As of July 1, the company moved part of its accounting department to Bombay from Zurich. About 50 jobs were lost in Switzerland; the same number were created in India.
"There are highly trained people in Bombay, we're connected directly to them through our data network, and they work for a fraction of the cost of the Swiss," said Herbert Schmell, a Swissair spokesman. "We expect a saving of about $5 million."
Such business decisions underscore a fundamental question facing the European welfare state. Have the rapid changes in the world economy rendered Europe's system, with its high wage costs and comprehensive social security benefits, unsustainable? Or is a European recession simply causing serious financial problems that will pass when recovery comes?
"Either, as I believe, Europe's comprehensive social security coverage will emerge intact from Europe's recession, or we are at the beginning of an economic and cultural revolution that will throw the whole system into doubt," said Frederic Oudea, an official who oversees Government benefits at France's Budget Ministry. "If it is the latter, if Swissair is pointing the way, then the social consequences will be dire."
 
Cutbacks
Falling Resources Turn the Tide
 Europe's recession and soaring unemployment have certainly placed new strains on benefits. Most European social insurance programs are financed through payroll taxes on workers and employers, so the fewer salaried workers there are, the less money flows into social security budgets. But the more people out of a job, the more unemployment benefits there are to pay, so resources are dwindling as demand soars.
The number of unemployed in the European Community, whose economies as a whole are expected to shrink five-tenths of 1 percent this year, has already risen to 18.1 million from 14.3 million in 1991 and is expected to reach at least 19 million next year. The financial impact on welfare programs in the 12 member nations has been severe.
But other forces are also prompting questioning of the structure of Europe's welfare states, even as President Clinton considers measures that would bring the United States closer to the European model, like a payroll tax to extend medical care to all American citizens, an increase in unemployment benefits and a higher minimum wage.
The rapid aging of the population -- Western Europeans, like Americans, are living longer -- is squeezing pension plans. Because older people spend more on health, the aging is also contributing to sharply rising medical costs in many European countries.
In France, a recent study projected that the deficit in the Government pension budget would soar from about $3.5 billion today to about $35 billion by 2010 if radical reforms are not enacted, because the ratio of active to retired people is shrinking fast. Overall, France's deficit on its annual $280 billion comprehensive social security budget is likely to grow from $7 billion today to $17.5 billion by the end of next year unless new revenue is found.
"The tendencies are catastrophic," Mr. Oudea said.
Similar shortfalls are reported throughout Western Europe.
From Sweden, until recently the paradigm of the welfare state, to Italy, with its swelling budget deficit, laws are being passed to cut the range and cost of welfare programs. Sweden has already adopted a measure raising the age for pension eligibility from 65 to 66 and eliminating sick pay for the first day of work missed. In Italy, the pensionable age has also been raised, and some limits have been imposed on free medical care for people with higher incomes.
The German Government, which has had to cope with the exceptional costs of unifying east and west, recently proposed cutting benefits for the unemployed. While people of the former East Germany have had to forsake the guaranteed employment and the cast-iron cradle-to-grave social safety net provided by the Communist system, they have been largely integrated into the social security systems of the west, at great cost to the Bonn Government. Eastern Germans have lost their free day care and free homes for the aged, but they still have substantial protection.
In France, the conservative Government that took over in March has pushed through a range of measures to control costs, like lowering retirement payments, reducing reimbursement for medical expenses and shortening the period during which the unemployed can receive jobless benefits.
"We can't have people working for 8 months and then receiving 15 months' of unemployment benefits, as they do today," a French official said.
In the Netherlands, the rules governing disability benefits have been tightened as of Aug. 1, with the aim of cutting more than $2 billion from the disability budget. Definitions of incapacity to work will be stricter, medical examinations will be more rigorous, and in some cases, payments will be lowered from 70 percent of the last wage earned to 70 percent of the minimum wage.
"Before, the top priority was protection for people," said Mr. Jansen, the Social Affairs Ministry official in the Netherlands. "Now the priority is avoiding fraud, getting people back to work as fast as possible, and encouraging citizens to supplement national insurance with private insurance policies."
Of course, such measures set off fierce opposition. Mr. Jansen was speaking in a fifth-floor office that could be reached only by a stairway because a bomb planted by a Dutch terrorist group had recently blown up the ministry's elevator shaft. The group has been protesting changes in social benefits and in labor laws as well as an effort by the Government to crack down on the hiring of illegal immigrants.
But even when the public approves of cuts in benefit programs, experts are questioning whether the basic concept of comprehensive, or at least far-reaching, social protection is still tenable.
 
Job Market
Benefits Reduce New Hiring
 Benefits programs add enormously to wage costs and tend to make industries less competitive in an economy that technology and high-speed communications have made genuinely global. There is also growing evidence that the cost of benefits makes employers extremely hesitant to hire new people. In France, for instance, an employer paying the current monthly minimum wage of 4,830 francs -- about $810 at current exchange rates -- will incur total wage costs of about 8,500 francs, or about $1,420, once payroll taxes for social security programs have been included.
A German manufacturing worker costs employers about $26.89 an hour, of which benefits account for 46 percent. In contrast, the average hourly pay of an American worker, $15.89, and benefits, about 28 percent of the wage, are much lower.
In 1992 alone, unit labor costs in the European Community grew 4.1 percent, compared with 2.4 percent in Japan and 1.4 percent in the United States, according to figures supplied by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
"With the social charges so high for an employee, I just can't afford to take on new people," said Gerard Dumontant, the owner of the Hotel de Longchamp in Paris, who has cut his staff to 35 people from 45 over the last three years. "People are far too protected by society, and they have lost their sense of personal responsibility."
In Madrid, another small businessman, Jose Paniagua, the owner of an auto repair shop, explained with similar exasperation that it had become too costly and risky for him to hire more workers. He would like to increase his work force from four to five, but his tax bill would rise by about 25 percent. Spanish law also makes it very difficult, and expensive, to fire anyone.
"So if I need an extra worker, I'm forced to do it illegally," he said. "I bring him in on a Saturday morning, lock the door, and pay him in cash under the table."
Mr. Paniagua said the scope of social security programs made illegal practices inevitable. As an example he cited his brother-in-law, who has a profitable 300-acre farm in Andalusia but is able to collect unemployment benefits of about $900 a month each for his wife and two children.
Such is the extent of welfare fraud in Spain, where unemployment officially runs at over 20 percent, that a joke was widely heard in the countryside during the recent election campaign: "We have to beware of these politicians. They are threatening to reduce unemployment!"
Underlining such distortions, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned bluntly in a report published this month that generous unemployment benefits could be adding to long-term joblessness in Europe. "In many countries, the unemployment benefits system, rather than providing temporary support to job-seekers while they re-establish themselves in the labor market, has also become a means for long-term income support," the report said.
 
Competition
Flight of Jobs Raises Warnings
 In some cases, benefits designed to cushion society from social problems seem to be worsening those ills. In effect, social security systems are deterring corporations from offering what many people view as the greatest single greatest source of security to an individual -- a full-time job.
Indeed, in Spain, new full-time jobs have become a rarity because of the protection guaranteed workers. Dismissing anyone is so costly and so complex -- usually involving lengthy mediation by the Labor Ministry and payment of at least 45 days' wages for each year worked -- that corporations have resorted to hiring temporarily. More than 35 percent of the Spanish labor force is working on temporary contracts of a maximum of three years.
"It is very hard, in a modern economy of rapid change, to manage a company that you cannot adjust," said Gonzalo Hinojoso, the chief executive of a big Madrid clothing and retail company called Cortefiel. "That is why we have to use a lot of temporary labor, even though it is far from ideal."
In 1986, Cortefiel shifted some production of apparel from Spain to Morocco, where labor costs are about 25 percent of Spanish levels, social security taxes are minimal, and hiring and firing is far more flexible. "In this way, we can compete against textile manufacturers in the Far East," Mr. Hinojoso said.
European labor leaders fear that this trend is permanent. "Industry now just consists of financiers taking a look at the world and seeing where they can make the most profit," said Christian Muller, a labor official at the Hoover vacuum cleaner factory near Dijon, France. "Well, it costs 55 francs an hour for a specialized worker in France, compared with about 5 francs in Poland and one franc in Russia. The calculation doesn't take long."
Mr. Muller predicted "civil war" should the movement of jobs out of Europe and reductions in benefits continue. "We're going toward an American system," he said, "and it just won't work here."
He has reason to be bitter. His job and 617 others at the Hoover plant were eliminated earlier this year when the Maytag Corporation, which owns Hoover, decided to transfer production to Scotland, where labor and social security costs are about 37 percent lower than they are in France. The factory in Dijon is to close early next year.
But at the same time, Maytag secured concessions from its Scottish plant, at Cambuslang, by threatening to move production to France. Labor unions agreed to slash the bonus for working a night shift, eliminate some overtime payments, and increase the work week by 50 minutes. They also agreed that newly hired employees should have a two-year probationary period with no sick pay or pension contributions paid by the employer.
Such strong-arm tactics seem likely to spread. Faced by growing competition, corporations in Europe are desperate to cut costs.
Such companies have some backing from Britain's Conservative Government, which wants to encourage the move to roll back the welfare state. "Labor markets are the crux of Europe's economic woes -- over-rigid, overregulated and over-priced," Kenneth Clarke, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, declared in July. "The first step must be for European Community governments to look at the whole range of extra costs we force on business by excessive regulation."
 
Resistance
Any Changes Will Come Slowly
 Other governments are taking a different tack. France, for instance, wants to force developing countries to improve their social security programs and thereby raise their labor costs. The alternative, President Francois Mitterrand argues, should be trade sanctions against those nations.
Though Western Europe's current model, for many reasons, no longer seems to be working, change appears certain to be slow. Europeans are deeply attached to their social protection: they like their free ambulance rides, their nine free ultrasound examinations per pregnancy, their five weeks of paidvacation and their generous pension plans. Even as unemployment rises and jobs migrate to other countries, Europeans will fight to keep these benefits, and politicians will hesitate to propose any change that looks like a dismantling of the welfare system.
A deep-seated conviction still exists among many people that Europe has got some things right that the United States has wrong. This sentiment was summed up last year by Mr. Mitterrand when he commented that the Los Angeles riots illustrated "that the social needs of any country must not be neglected."
Even as the Clinton Administration considers a wider social safety net and the Europeans a more stringent system, profound differences seem likely to persist.
"In the United States, work is regarded as a path to fulfillment," said Emilio Ontiveros, a Spanish economist. "Here, it is regarded more as a divine malediction, and social security is what makes it bearable."
NEXT: A flood tide of immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ABOVE Hans vander Valk, a physicist who lives in The Hague, is suffering from stress. So he has stopped working and for the last three years has been collecting $1,630 a month in disability benefits; LEFT "With the social charges so high for an employee, I just can't afford to take on new people," said Gerard Dumontant, owner of Hotel de Longchamp in Paris. (Photographs by Luc Perenom for The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Graphs: "How Workers Fare: Comparing Wages and Benefits"
 
LABOR COSTS
 Hourly cost to employers per industrial worker, including wages, benefits and taxes, for 1992.
 
Germany* -- $26.90
Sweden -- $24.65
Netherlands -- $21.64
Japan -- $19.23
Italy -- $19.00
France -- $17.79
United States -- $15.89
Spain -- $14.70
Britain -- $14.70
Taiwan** -- $5.19
South Korea** -- $4.93
 
HOUR WEEK
 Average length of work week in hours, as specified in union contracts for industrial workers.
 
Japan -- 42
Italy -- 40
Sweden -- 40
United States -- 40
Spain -- 40
France -- 39
Britain -- 39
Netherlands -- 39
Germany -- 37
 
ABSENTEEISM
 Percentage of days absent from work, not including vacation or holidays
 
Japan -- 2%
Italy -- 6%
Sweden -- 12%
United States -- 3%
Spain -- N.A.
France -- 8%
Britain -- 7%
Netherlands -- 8%
Germany -- 9%
 
TIME OFF
 Number of paid vacation days and holidays each year, as specified in union contracts for industrial workers
 
Netherlands -- 41
Germany -- 40
Italy -- 40
Sweden -- 38
Spain -- 36
France -- 35
Britain -- 35
Japan -- 25
United States -- 23
 
*All statistics for Germany represent the western part of the country.
**Data for Taiwan and Korea are from a separate survey; not strictly comparable to other data.
 
(Sources: German Federal Labor Office, United States Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); NETHERLANDS (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (94%); SWEDEN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); INDIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (92%); ZURICH (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR AG (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (97%); NETHERLANDS (96%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (94%); SWEDEN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); INDIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (92%); ZURICH (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SURVEYS AND SERIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; AGED EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); TRENDS (85%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); POLITICS (64%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



253 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Buyers Eager for 30-Year Auction

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Traders and investors appear eager to buy the last of the quarterly 30-year bonds to be auctioned by the Treasury this week.
At the end of last week, the new issue was trading in the when-issued, or pre-auction, market at a yield of 6.45 percent. That is 8 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, below the yield on the current 30-year bond, which ended trading at 6.53 percent on Friday. Prices and yields move in opposite directions, so investors were willing to pay a premium for the new issue. 
 There is often a premium paid to get into a new issue, traders and analysts said, because a new issue is more liquid and easier to trade than an older issue of 30-year bonds. But several analysts said the premium -- or roll, as it is called in the market -- on the new 30-year bond was large by recent standards.
"My interpretation of that is that there is good demand for that issue," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates of Princeton, N.J. He added that he considered it a signal that this week's entire quarterly auction, including the sale of 3-year and 10-year notes, would go well.
Interpreting the roll and watching the performance of the 30-year auction on Thursday and, especially, seeing how the new 30-year bond trades afterward, will be part of the adjustment process to a new era for this Treasury security.
After this week, the 30-year bond will be sold only twice a year, instead of four times. And the total issue during the year, based on statements from the Treasury, will be cut about 40 percent. So the auctions will be further apart and the total supply will be down.
Figuring how this reduction in supply will affect the performance of the bond -- particularly how much it may push the yield down -- is an important consideration in deciding how to play the flattening of the yield curve. This is essentially a bet that the spread between the yields on the Treasury securities of different maturities will narrow; it is now one of the big trading arenas of the market.
 
Flattening Yield Curve
 Thomas J. Sowanick, senior fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said the cut in the supply of the 30-year bond would play a big role in the flattening of the yield curve.
The spread between the yields on the two-year Treasury note and the 30-year bond has narrowed to 2.45 percentage points on Friday from more than 3 percentage points on many occasions earlier in the year. And the spread between the yield on the 10-year note and the 30-year bond has flattened to 0.69 percentage point from 0.94 percentage point in May.
Mr. Sowanick predicted that the spread between the 10-year note and the 30-year bond could fall to zero. He did not rule out the possibility that the spread could become negative, which would mean the yield on the 10-year note would be higher than the yield on the 30-year bond. He said the spread between the 2-year note and 30-year bond would fall to 1 percentage point, and possibly near 0.75 percentage point.
 
Bond Auction Skipped
 This has happened before, when a 30-year bond auction was skipped, Mr. Sowanick said. In the fourth quarter of 1988, when interest rates were rising, a debt-ceiling limitation forced the cancellation of the 30-year bond auction. The move, he said, limited the rise in the yield on the 30-year bond to 25 basis points. So while the yield on the 30-year bond increased to 8.99 percent from 8.74 percent from October to December, the yield on the 10-year note rose to 9.14 percent from 8.64 percent.
But other factors, like Federal Reserve policy, would also have a big role in determining how much narrower the spreads get, Mr. Sowanick acknowledged. Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Brothers, also made this point.
It is tempting, Mr. DiClemente said, to credit the expected reductions in the Federal deficit, and the shift in the borrowing patterns of the Treasury to shorter-term maturities, for part of the narrowing of the yield spreads.
"However, these psychological influences would not sustain the trend were it not for other factors," Mr. DiClemente said. "In particular, a 30-month stall in consumer price inflation acts like gravity to pull inflation expectations down, a tendency reinforced by the market's growing belief that the Fed will snuff out any less favorable warning signs."
 
$1 Billion Bond Sale
 A milestone of sorts was reached in the high-yield -- or junk -- bond market Friday. Continental Cablevision Inc., the third-largest cable television company in the country, sold $1 billion of bonds, the largest sale by a company rated noninvestment grade by both major rating agencies since the revival of the junk bond market in 1991, according to the lead underwriter, Morgan Stanley & Company.
The sale is just another sign of how well the high-yield bond market is faring at a time when investors are looking everywhere for ways of increasing their yields as interest rates keep coming down.
The demand for the Continental bonds was strong enough that the size of the sale was doubled from a proposed $500 million. The deal was in three parts: $200 million of 8-year bonds, with a coupon of 8.5 percent sold at par; $275 million of 12-year bonds, with a coupon of 8.875 percent sold at par, and $525 million of 20-year bonds, with a coupon of 9.5 percent sold at par.
The first two issues are not callable. The 20-year issue is callable after 12 years, at a premium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); YIELD CURVE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



254 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
Low interest rates are leading an increasing number of homeowners to refinance their houses -- not to reduce their payments but to pay off their debt faster, thus building equity and cutting anticipated interest costs by thousands of dollars. [Page A1.]
Aggressive tax planning is expected to make a comeback in the wake of the Clinton budget plan's passage, especially for well-to-do taxpayers. "There is going to be virtually nobody out there who can do their own taxes," a planner said. [D1.]
Many investors may find the budget plan will be costly to them, even if they aren't making a lot of money. The value of some municipal and corporate bonds may go down, and investing in bankrupt companies will become even more hazardous. [D1.]
 
Companies
The generous role of Eastman Kodak in metropolitan Rochester is facing a future in which the cozy relationship of company and community will be challenged by the tight-fisted values of Wall Street. [D1.]
Federated Department Stores' swift retaliation against Roger N. Farah, the chairman of its merchandising office who planned to leave the company to take a senior position at R. H. Macy, caught retailers by surprise. Federated sued the executive, saying his contract prevented him from working for a competitor for two years after the contract's expiration on June 30, 1994. [D1.]
Volkswagen admitted that former G.M. employees who defected had destroyed documents belonging to the American auto maker, after severing their ties to it. But VW insisted that neither it nor its employees had been in possession of G.M. trade secrets. [D2.]
Supermarkets General faces neighborhood opposition as it plans to build a Pathmark megastore in Queens. [B1.]
 
International
Rising costs of European welfare programs for the disabled, elderly and unemployed threaten the economic future. [A1.]
 
The Media Business
CBS is battling its affiliates over whether they will carry the new David Letterman show. Some CBS stations have balked because they can make more money by broadcasting syndicated shows or reruns. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
Television stations are increasingly using cash prizes to lure viewers to local news programs. But some broadcasters question whether giveaways are appropriate. [D10.]
Three leading publications for lawyers are finding that, while the profession is in profound transition, their business is good. [D10.]
The issue of corrections in the press grew more complex as an influential national legal body proposed a new law aimed at encouraging corrections and limiting libel suits. [D10.]
A proposal to auction off part of the nation's airwaves for the first time is contained in the tax bill passed by Congress. Such sales may fetch far more than even the $10 billion the Government is conservatively estimating. [D11.]
The governing body for United States tennis is trying to polish its image. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D11.]
 
Today's Columns
Investors appear eager for this week's 30-year bond auction by the Treasury. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D9.]
A small company gets a big patent covering financial transactions from home computers. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
McKesson emerges as a hot company in the pharmaceutical business. The reason: its PCS unit's growing role in the booming discount drug field. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (83%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (85%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); TAX PLANNING (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); LAWYERS (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); LIBEL & SLANDER (62%); 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



255 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives Dominate Japan's New Cabinet

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, August 9

 BODY:
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa began to make clear how much reform he intends to introduce to Japan by announcing this morning a Cabinet line-up dominated by conservative former members of the Liberal Democratic Party.
Mr. Hosokawa struggled to strike a political balance among his seven coalition partners in Japan's first government in 38 years not controlled by the Liberal Democrats. In satisfying this disparate group he seems to have insured that any changes will be careful and slow. 
 Mr. Hosokawa said that the Cabinet's watchword would be "reforms with responsibility."
Socialists will hold such important posts as Home Affairs, Construction, which has been consumed by scandals, and the newly created ministerial position for political reform. A Buddhist-backed party holds the environmental post, and Mr. Hosokawa was careful to appoint three women.
Mr. Hosokawa's long-time political ally, Masayoshi Takemura, who is principally interested in domestic administrative and political reform, was named the chief Cabinet secretary, which will make him the Ggvernment's chief spokesman.
But the most powerful posts in the 22-member cabinet -- the portfolios of Foreign Affairs, Finance, International Trade and Industry, and Defense -- were handed to members of the Japan Renewal Party, made up of recent Liberal Democratic defectors. The men selected for two of those posts, Hirohisa Fujii at Finance and Hiroshi Kumagai at International Trade and Industry, are former bureaucrats from those ministries.
Those choices sent a powerful message, analysts said. At the least, this was taken as a sign that any changes will be evolutionary and carefully managed. At the worst, it renewed speculation that Mr. Hosokawa, who rose from obscurity to become a compromise candidate for Prime Minister, will be a puppet for the Japan Renewal Party's two key leaders, Tsutomu Hata and Ichiro Ozawa.
Mr. Hata was named Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ozawa is regarded with suspicion in the coalition because he was the protege of Shin Kanemaru, the former Liberal Democratic kingmaker, who is under indictment for tax evasion. Thus, Mr. Ozawa received no portfolio but is expected to remain influential behind the scenes. The new head of the Defense Agency, Keisuke Nakanishi, is regarded as politically close to Mr. Ozawa.
"To some extent, this is old wine in new bottles," said Kenneth Courtis, chief economist here with Deutsche Bank and a professor at Tokyo University. "This is a Cabinet of modernization -- political modernization, regulatory modernization. It's reformist in that sense. But the real reform, on taxes, land and deregulation of the economy, that will require a much more solid government than we have now."
Mr. Hosokawa has raised expectations with his promises to clean up the corrupt political order, deregulate and decentralize the economy, ease tense relations with the United States and broaden Japan's international role. While not backtracking, comments by some of his ministers at news conferences emphasized that continuity will be the order of the day in some respects.
Mr. Hata, for instance, reeled off the list of daunting international problems Japan faces and indicated it should develop a more independent approach. But, he said, "I will carry on the usual diplomatic policies and develop them with my utmost efforts."
Mr. Fujii, the Finance Minister, appeared to flatly reject a tax cut to stimulate the stalled economy by stating that he would never force the Government into a budget deficit.
Mr. Kumagai at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said that Japan would work hard to conclude global talks on opening the world trading system.
He added that, while he is opposed to setting targets for imports and reductions in Japan's yawning trade surpluses, as the United States has demanded, he was open to compromise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (JAPAN) DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (JAPAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TAX REFORM (75%); TAX FRAUD (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); RELIGION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX LAW (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



256 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Pitfalls for Investors in the New Tax Law;
Steep Rise In Minimum Rate Costly

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The new tax measure has good news for some real estate investors, but many other investors will find bad news in it. The value of some municipal and corporate bonds may go down, but not nearly as much as if the bill had been passed a few years ago. And investing in bankrupt companies will become even more hazardous than it was before.
While President Clinton emphasized that workers in families with incomes of less than $180,000 a year are unlikely to pay higher taxes, that is not true for many investors. A variety of measures could wind up costing them money, even if they are not making really big bucks. 
 One such change concerns the way interest on margin accounts at brokerage houses is deducted from taxable income. The change will have the effect of making the deduction less valuable for those whose investment income consists largely of long-term capital gains. To use the deduction, investors will in effect agree to have some or all of their capital gains taxed at the higher rates that apply to ordinary income like salaries.
 
No Joy for Options Players
 Those with large capital losses will also find reason to moan about the new tax measure. Such losses can generally be used to offset a maximum of $3,000 a year of ordinary income, but can offset capital gains on a dollar-for-dollar basis with no ceiling. That is not changed.
What is changed is that the new law bars a number of strategies that have enabled investors to realize short-term capital gains with little risk. Effectively, those strategies, some of which involve complicated options transactions, converted interest income on borrowed money into capital gains, said Robert Willens of Lehman Brothers. But not any more.
Some provisions of the tax bill deal with "market discount" bonds. These sell below par value because interest rates have risen, or perhaps because the credit quality of the issuer has declined since the bond came out. There are relatively few such bonds right now, but there will be more around if interest rates rise.
The new law worsens the tax treatment of such bonds, something that could depress their value. But because interest rates are at their lowest level in years, few bonds will be immediately affected.
Under current law, those who buy a market-discount municipal bond, or any discounted corporate or Treasury bond issued before July 18, 1984, have an advantage: Their profits on sale or redemption are taxed at the capital gains rate, which is typically lower than rates on ordinary income.
The new measure changes that. With bonds bought after April 30, that part of a gain attributable to amortizing a market discount will be taxed as ordinary income. So, buyers of municipal bonds or muni-bond mutual funds may find themselves with some ordinary taxable income after sales.
The most important real estate change affects investors actively involved in managing a property. They will be permitted to deduct losses from the property against ordinary income. Losses from other real estate investments, like limited partnerships, will remain deductible only from income earned on similar investments, known as passive income.
Other real estate changes make it easier for pension funds to buy into real estate investment trusts, without jeopardizing the trusts' special tax benefits. These trusts lose tax benefits if they are more than half-owned by five or fewer investors. The old law treated a pension fund as one investor; the new measure provides that a pension fund's investments will be attributed to all its beneficiaries.
It will also be easier for pension funds to buy leveraged real estate and to form what are effectively joint ventures with financial institutions to develop foreclosed property.
Many bankrupt companies will lose what has been their most valuable asset -- the tax-loss carry-forward that shelters future income. Beginning in 1995, when a lender to a bankrupt company is given stock to replace bonds or other debt, the value of the canceled debt will be taxable income for the bankrupt company.
"This gives you an incentive to issue new debt rather than stock," said Robin Phelan, a bankruptcy lawyer with Haynes & Boone in Dallas. So companies coming out of bankruptcy are likely to owe more, he said, and bear a greater risk of financial failure.
The bankruptcy provisions even create an incentive to file for Chapter 11 in the next few months, rather than later. The changes do not apply to companies that go broke this year. So creditors may be tempted to pull the plug on such companies before Dec. 31. Companies that file for bankruptcy protection next year can still escape, but only if they manage to exchange bonds for stock before the end of 1994. Any company that goes broke after that is out of luck.
 
Undercutting Capital Gains
 The 28 percent rate on long-term capital gains is preserved in the new law. But as Robert N. Gordon, president of Twenty-First Securities in New York, said, the value of that for some will be reduced because of an increase in the alternative minimum tax rate, to as much as 28 percent from 21 percent now. This flat tax is applied to income before considering many usual deductions, and the taxpayer is required to use it if it results in more tax than under the ordinary computation method.
Mr. Gordon said that an investor who has a very large capital gain, and a deduction like mortgage interest, would now have to pay 28 percent on all his income before the deductions. In effect, he said, that means that the capital gain wiped out the value of the mortgage-interest deduction.
"Isn't that the same as having a higher rate on capital gains?" he asked. When the alternative minimum rate was lower than the capital gains rate, at least part of the value of other deductions was preserved.
A change in corporate tax law may make some companies more valuable as takeover targets, and others less so. When one company buys another for more than its tangible assets -- like land, buildings and machines -- are worth, this creates intangible assets. Under the old law, such assets often cannot be depreciated for tax purposes. But the new measure says that all such assets can be written off over 15 years. That is good news for buyers of companies with large intangibles, like television stations and food producers.
Banks will get a special break. When they buy mortgages, they will now be able to write off the asset's value over a period of only nine years. But software companies, which had a similar advantage in the original House bill, were unable to keep it in the final version.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; REAL ESTATE; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKRUPTCIES; INCOME TAX TAX LAW (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



257 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: China Says U.S. Is Harassing Ship Suspected of Taking Arms to Iran

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 8

 BODY:
In a dispute likely to create new strains between China and the United States, Beijing accused Washington today of harassing a Chinese ship because of suspicions it is shipping chemical weapons materials to the Middle East.
The official New China News Agency indicated that Washington suspects Beijing of exporting raw ingredients used to make mustard gas and nerve gas. 
 China bitterly denied that it would permit such exports, and it demanded compensation for what it described as "utterly unjustifiable bullying" by the United States.
 
Iran Believed to Be Destination
 In Washington, a senior Administration official said the ship was believed to be carrying chemicals to Iran. The official added that the United States would not seize or inspect the ship, since it had no legal basis to do so, but that it had begun efforts to persuade China to turn the ship around.
If the Clinton Administration turns out to have evidence -- rather than just suspicions -- that China is selling Iran the ingredients for mustard gas and nerve gas, the dispute could be a huge embarrassment to Beijing and create tensions just as relations seemed to be slowly improving on both sides.
The official People's Daily today reported the issue on its front page, saying the matter had cast a shadow over relations with the United States. The article said the Chinese Foreign Ministry had summoned Ambassador J. Stapleton Roy on Saturday to receive a strong protest.
A United States Embassy spokesman, Kimberly G. Hargan, confirmed that Mr. Roy had met with the Foreign Ministry but declined to comment further.
The dispute revolves around one of the most sensitive issues in the Chinese-American relationship: suspicions in Washington that Beijing is selling dangerous military technology -- in this case ingredients for chemical weapons, in other cases missiles or nuclear technology -- to unstable parts of the world.
 
Shadowed by U.S. Vessels
 As of today, the Chinese ship was approaching the Strait of Hormuz, off Iran's southern coast, the Administration official said. It is being shadowed by United States Navy vessels.
According to the Chinese account, since July 23 the United States has made "repeated representations" to the Chinese Government that a cargo ship called the Yinhe is carrying a shipment of two chemicals for export to the Middle East. The two chemicals are thiodiglycol, the basic ingredient of mustard gas, and thionyl chloride, used to make nerve gas.
Mustard gas was widely used in World War I, and nerve gas was developed by Germany during World War II but not used. Both are lethal. Although chemical weapons were used in the 1980-88 war between Iraq and Iran, and by Iraq against Kurdish villages, in general the horror of gas attacks -- coupled with fear of retaliation in kind -- has restrained the use of chemical and biological warfare during battles in recent decades.
It is not clear why the United States believes that the Yinhe is carrying the chemicals. Typically, American officials would simply tell the Chinese their suspicions without disclosing the source of the intelligence.
In its replies, China acknowledged that the Yinhe was bound for the Middle East -- although today's published account avoided mentioning Iran or any port of call -- but said the Government banned the export of the two chemicals.
 
'Arbitrary Action,' China Says
 "However, the U.S. side chose to ignore China's statement and took arbitrary action that prevented the Chinese ship from reaching her scheduled ports," the New China News Agency declared.
It added, "The ship was forced to be adrift on the high sea, subject to such extraordinary activities of interruption and coercion, including pursuit and photography by U.S. warships and military aircraft on the high sea."
The agency did not say precisely what the United States had done to prevent the ship from docking. But it suggested that at the least American officials had put pressure on countries in the region not to allow the ship to enter a port.
"The Chinese ship has not to this day received permission to dock and is faced with extreme difficulties," the report said.
The senior Administration official presented a more benign view of the dispute. He said the Yinhe was expected to make a port call in Saudi Arabia before continuing to Iran, and he emphasized that Washington wanted to work with Beijing in resolving the matter. He added that the Chinese Government might not even be aware of the real nature of the cargo.
China proposes that the ship be allowed to dock at its first port of call, which it does not specify, and that officials from China and the country where the port is located inspect the cargo together to see if it includes chemicals.
 
Problem With Inspection
 The problem with that approach is presumably that the first port of call might turn out to be in Iran rather than Saudi Arabia. American officials may fear that Chinese and local officials would unload the cargo of chemicals and then cheerfully announce that the ship contained nothing more than stuffed pandas.
The New China News Agency quoted Qin Huasun, an Assistant Foreign Minister, as telling Ambassador Roy that the accusations against China were fabricated. Mr. Qin charged that the United States "chose to cling to its unfounded information in an attempt to sow discord in the friendly relations between China and other countries concerned."
Mr. Qin's statement was unusually harsh. The agency quoted him as saying that "the unwarranted actions of the U.S. had tarnished China's international reputation, interrupted the routine voyage of the Chinese ship, damaged the normal relations and trade exchange among sovereign states, caused great economic losses to the Chinese side, subjected the safety of the Chinese ship and her crew to grave risks and cast new shadows over the relations between China and the U.S."
China has close ties with Iran and sold it a large amount of weaponry during its war with Iraq -- a war that was doubly profitable because China was also supplying Iraq. Iran is one of several countries that helped China acquire air-to-air refueling technology, and China has provided Iran with some nuclear assistance that both sides say is for purely civilian purposes.
The decision by Chinese leaders to disclose the dispute presumably means either that they believe that the Yinhe is not carrying the chemicals or that if it is, they believe that they will not be caught red-handed. The ship could presumably return to China and continue to protest its innocence.
One of the mysteries at this stage is why China chose to publicize the matter at all, given that some people are likely to assume the worst of Beijing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; IRAN CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); BULLYING (78%); NAVIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); WORLD WAR II (63%); WORLD WAR I (63%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



258 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Change Worries Kodak's Hometown

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Aug. 8

 BODY:
After more than a century of basking in the generosity of the Eastman Kodak Company, this metropolitan region of 700,000 people near Lake Ontario -- one of the nations' largest centers of manufacturing and exports -- is facing a future where the cozy relationship of company and community will be challenged by the more tight-fisted values of Wall Street.
On Friday, Kodak's board announced that it had ousted the chief executive, Kay R. Whitmore, a 35-year employee, and said it was planning to bring in an outsider to run the company. The news came as a shock to community leaders and residents. It also raised questions here about the future of the region's largest and perhaps most paternalistic employer and longtime community benefactor. 
 "I'm afraid of the company losing its human element," said Patricia B. Papa, a Kodak secretary for 25 years who retired two years ago and now volunteers at the International Museum of Photography at the George Eastman House here, the company founder's former residence.
"If the human element goes, you lose the loyalty," she said. "Then the morale goes, and so does the productivity."
Her views were echoed in weekend interviews with residents, local government officials, merchants and educators. Yet some also hastened to note that Kodak was probably strong enough, and Rochester diverse enough, for there to be little likelihood of the extreme hardship endured by industrial cities like nearby Buffalo, which needed years to recover from tens of thousands of job cuts at Bethlehem Steel and other manufacturers in the early 80's.
Here, the economic implications are less drastic, just as they are for Kodak itself.
While the company remains a leader in the photographic film business, and earned profits of nearly $1 billion last year, its luster has been tarnished by inroads from lower-cost producers and by investments made in the 1980's, like its $5.1 billion acquisition of Sterling Drug Inc., which have been widely criticized.
 
Cost Cutting Called Too Slow
 Last week, the push by investors and outside directors for higher profits led to the ouster of Mr. Whitmore, the chief executive since June 1990. Board members said he had been too slow to cut costs through layoffs and divestitures.
For community leaders weaned on a tradition of corporate benevolence begun by George Eastman, who with the Kodak camera introduced photography to the masses in 1888, the dismissal of Mr. Whitmore was a shock. And while they are confident that other regional employers, like such growing high-tech concerns as Xerox and Bausch & Lomb, will help soften the blow, they are worried about the board's plan to hire a new chairman from outside the company.
Despite pressure for nearly two years by restive outside directors, the only layoffs announced in that time were the 2,000 jobs the company said in January that it planned to trim from its work force of some 132,000 worldwide. Nearly a third of its employees work in Rochester.
Mr. Whitmore's departing video message to employees on Friday, in which he explained that the board wanted the company to reduce costs and increase profits faster, left little doubt among local residents that Kodak would soon follow the pattern of such blue-chip companies as I.B.M. and Procter & Gamble by cutting jobs.
 
Nervous About the Unknown
 Robert L. King, chief executive of Monroe County, which includes Rochester, said that Kodak was "a great corporate citizen" but that "even though there is no evidence yet that changes will be brutal, the unknown makes you nervous."
But this nervousness is not the kind of outright dread known to smaller, specialized cities like Ypsilanti, Mich., which has been devasted by the impending closure of a General Motors auto plant. Rochester has enough scientists, engineers and skilled workers to insure that it remains a center for the optical and photography businesses.
"We are no longer a one-company town, absolutely dependent on Eastman Kodak," Mr. King said. "Over the past decade or decade and a half there has been very signficant growth in hundreds of smaller companies, many of them started by people who left Kodak."
Indeed, Rochester has kept its position as a leading manufacturing center despite a decline in Eastman Kodak's Rochester payroll, to 39,300 workers at the end of last year from about 60,400 10 years earlier. Since 1983 overall manufacturing employment in the city -- excluding surrounding suburbs -- has fallen about 17 percent, to about 130,000, but that is a smaller decline than in many other large industrial cities in that period.
 
Failure of Disk Cameras
 In 1982, Eastman Kodak increased its Rochester work force to introduce disk cameras, which were not well received by the public. In 1986 and 1987 it shed about 13,000 workers worldwide, through either retirement or layoffs. And in 1991 8,300 workers left to take advantage of an early-retirement program that some investors criticized as too generous. (The company had counted on a reduction of only 3,000 to 4,000 employees and was suprised when so many took advantage of the offer.)
Albert J. Simone, an economist and president of the Rochester Institute of Technology, said many of the possible changes at Eastman Kodak could benefit the area's economy. If parts of the company are sold or distributed to shareholders, like the spinoff of the Eastman Chemical business, which has already been announced, or the sale of photocopier business, which has been widely rumored, Mr. Simone said, "there is not necessarily a decline in jobs in the area -- just a changing of ownership and perhaps a gain in efficiency that benefits everybody."
By some measures, Kodak is not a particularly sick company. It still has a leading brand name and a reputation for high quality. While shareholders and the board were dissatisfied with the $994 million earned from continuing operations in 1992, that profit still equaled a respectable 15.7 percent return on shareholders' capital in the company.
Mr. Simone did not question the right of shareholders to seek improvement or the need for the company to gird to meet stronger competition than it has traditionally known, but he cautioned that the process of change could be mismanaged.
 
Desire for a Quick Change
 "There is sometimes a desire of outsiders to want a quick change, and for heads to roll," he said. "In the short run they can be satisfied that they have done something, but over the longer term they can change a company's culture and not in a positive way."
With the prospect of a new, outside management at Kodak, and fears that jobs could be moved to parts of the world with lower wage rates, come questions about whether Rochester will be hurt in other ways.
Joseph Calabrese, director of the Rochester United Way, noted that Eastman Kodak's $3.3 million corporate contribution last year was the largest of any company in the country. He worries that such largesse may be reduced if jobs are moved to other places and Rochester becomes a less dominant part of the company.
Manuel J. Rivera, superintendent of Rochester's 35,000-student school system, worries that Mr. Whitmore's leaving may diminish the company's commitment to improve education. He noted that Mr. Whitmore pushed the company to start a widely praised program that last year sent 750 Kodak employees into classrooms from kindergarten through high school.
 
Cultivating the Future
 Although Mr. Whitmore would justify these efforts on the ground that they improve the quality of the company's future work force, Mr. Rivera is concerned that the long-term benefits might be overlooked by new Kodak leaders in their quest for near-term profits.
Across Lake Avenue from Kodak Park, the company's sprawling factory center that employs most of Kodak's Rochester workers, Walter Williams, a car salesman at Piehler Pontiac, noted that sales to Kodak people had declined in recent years. "But the factory is still there," he said, gesturing across the road, "and we are trying to keep a positive attitude."
Thomas P. Ryan Jr., Mayor of Rochester, said that unpopular as job losses and spending cuts by Eastman Kodak might be, they were preferable to the alternative of a company that avoids hard decisions and eventually withers away.
"People here have to be reminded that the real question is whether Kodak remains a strong company," he said. "If the pain of job losses is needed to keep the company viable and successful, then we have to be prepared for that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patricia B. Papa, a former secretary at Eastman Kodak, above, in Rochester, said Kodak could lose its human element with a new chief executive. Albert J. Simone, an economist, said the changes could benefit the city's economy. (Photographs by Phil Matt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (96%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (54%); BAUSCH & LOMB INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROCHESTER (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LAKE ONTARIO (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS LAYOFFS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; WHITMORE, KAY R

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



259 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: A Promise or a Threat?;
Long-Sought Supermarket Now Draws Fire

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
For more than three years, a coalition of church congregations in southeastern Queens has clamored, cajoled, begged and lobbied to lure one of the amenities of suburbia: a huge, modern supermarket like those taken for granted almost everywhere in America except New York City.
Now, two decades after the major supermarket chains abandoned largely black neighborhoods, consigning their shoppers to smaller, more expensive groceries, the church coalition appears to have succeeded. 
 And yet, even as they envision fresh meat, vegetables and economic development, their hopes have run headlong into the swelling neighborhood opposition that has greeted the recent arrival in New York of some of the nation's largest discount retailers.
 
Plans for a Megastore
 Supermarkets General Corporation, which owns the Pathmark chain, has agreed to build one of the city's largest supermarkets -- a 62,000-square-foot megastore with a deli, florist, bakery, pharmacy and video rental -- where a warehouse now stands on the border of Springfield Gardens and Laurelton.
But even as the coalition that lured it, the Queens Citizens Organization, plans a ceremony for Tuesday to announce the project and its promise of better shopping and 250 jobs, some residents and merchants in Laurelton have already objected vehemently. Calling it a threat to a way of life, they have vowed to fight the zoning variances the Pathmark will need.
"We don't need a supermarket of that magnitude," said Herbert Murdock, a high school assistant principal and chairman of the Federation of Laurelton Block Associations, who lives a few blocks from the proposed site. "An urban blight, that's what it will be."
 
Growing Resistance
 While large new stores often meet local resistance, especially from small merchants, opposition to superstores appears to be mounting as more of them arrive in the city -- from the grumbling about a block-long Barnes & Noble bookstore on the Upper West Side of Manhattan to the court challenge to a Home Depot at Aqueduct Race Track in Queens.
And as the city's Department of City Planning rewrites its zoning policies to make it easier for more such stores to open, the impact of the discount retailers has become a campaign issue.
On the steps of City Hall last Tuesday, Herman Badillo, the Republican-Liberal candidate for Comptroller who is also seeking the Democratic nomination, joined a demonstration by a trade group opposing the Pathmark and denounced the zoning proposals, warning of an "invasion of mega stores" and attacking Mayor David N. Dinkins.
"This zoning proposal by the Dinkins administration is one more piece of evidence of the Mayor's unremitting attack on small businesses," said Mr. Badillo, who is running on the same ticket as Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor.
The city's planners and many elected officials dismiss the opposition as misinformed and shortsighted. They say that the newly arrived superstores have not destroyed the city's shopping neighborhoods and in fact attract new customers to stagnant districts. They also say that the city must do all it can to attract retailers that could create thousands of jobs and generate millions of dollars in tax revenues on purchases that New Yorkers now make in the suburbs.
"There certainly is some opposition from small merchants who are worried about competition, but I'm not sure what the eight million other New Yorkers think," said Barry Dinerstein, a senior planner at the City Planning Department. "It would be unfortunate if the small merchants would not allow them that choice."
For the coalition of 25 churches that worked to attract the Pathmark, the opposition has become the latest obstacle in a long, frustrating effort to bring a fixture of suburban life to their neighborhoods.
 
Paying More, Getting Less
 The effort grew out of a basic fact of urban life: people in the city's less-affluent, mostly minority neighborhoods have to pay more for food in small markets and corner delis than those in the middle-class neighborhoods and the suburbs, who have easy access to large supermarkets.
For the coalition's leaders, that disparity prompts a flurry of passionate anecdotes about inconveniences and indignities, higher prices, filthy aisles, wilting vegetables and long drives to the suburbs in search of a decent supermarket.
Nola Southerland, the co-chairwoman of the coalition, complained of not being able to buy laundry soap in bulk, of the iron bars that won't let shopping carts into parking lots, of angrily pointing out rotting meat to a store manager only to be told it was "the manager's special." Her only recourse has been to drive to Nassau County to do her shopping.
"After all these years of seeing these things, of taking our money and spending it outside our neighborhood, we asked, 'Why can't we have that here?' " said Mrs. Southerland, a retired telephone company executive from St. Albans.
After approaching Pathmark and then ruling out a series of locations, the church coalition settled on a 16.5-acre site at the corner of Merrick and Springfield Boulevards now occupied by a hulking, underused warehouse owned by the Nynex Corporation.
 
Special Permit Needed
 Under the agreement between Pathmark's parent company, Nynex and Norse Realty, a developer in Queens, the structure would be razed to make room for two buildings, one for Nynex, the other for the new Pathmark. Since the site is zoned for industrial use, the project would require a special zoning permit, a process that could take a year or more.
"We think there is a great opportunity and an unmet need for shoppers in that part of the city," said Harvey Gutman, senior vice president for retail development at Supermarkets General. He noted that the Queens store would be one of the largest of the company's 147 Pathmarks. "That's why we're very excited," he said.
Along Merrick Boulevard, which fading signs on telephone poles identify as the "Laurelton Renaissance Shopping District," the reaction has been less enthusiastic.
Like the other neighborhoods of southeastern Queens, such as Springfield Gardens, Cambria Heights and St. Albans, Laurelton is a mostly black, mostly working-class neighborhood of leafy streets and neat rows of single-family wood-frame or Tudor houses. And like the others, it is a place where residents are fiercely protective of their almost suburban way of life.
Some residents and merchants on Merrick Boulevard, which extends east from the site of the proposed Pathmark, have already complained that the giant supermarket would undo the work of civic leaders who have struggled to revive the neighborhood's commercial strip after years of decline.
 
'Don't Want Empty Stores'
 At Marder's Pharmacy, a neighborhood landmark for 30 years, a manager, Michael Rogoff, said merchants would be forced out of business by Pathmark's low prices and high volume, leaving behind vacant storefronts that would attract crime and litter.
"You don't want empty stores," said Mr. Rogoff, who like others in the neighborhood often refers to Laurelton as "town." "It's always been a small community. Something like this will be devastating."
More than 125 people turned out for a town hall meeting on Thursday night, organized by City Councilwoman Juanita E. Watkins, to discuss the proposed Pathmark. Though some said they welcomed the competition the supermarket would bring, many criticized the plan.
"The talk of profits and jobs is, to be honest, pie in the sky," said Astley Campbell, who warned that the Pathmark would shut down neighborhood businesses, leaving the shopping district and the homes around it to decline in value. "We must put our resources together and block this project morally, politically and legally."
The coalition supporting the Pathmark, which has the backing of the city's economic development officials, Borough President Claire Shulman and other elected officials, vowed to respond to the opposition by rallying those who have complained for years about the dearth of major supermarkets.
"They're trying to draw lines," the Rev. Leroy Burns of the Second Gateway Church of God in Christ in South Ozone Park said of the Pathmark's opponents. "They're trying to make it into something that it's not.
"We've been working on this for three and a half years. And I can tell you that we have more people on our side, who want it, than they have on theirs, that don't."

GRAPHIC: Map of Queens showing proposed site of store.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PTMK (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SUPERMARKETS GENERAL CORP PATHMARK STORES INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPERMARKETS GENERAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; LAURELTON (QUEENS); SPRINGFIELD GARDENS (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; ZONING; ELECTION ISSUES; SUPERMARKETS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (97%); RETAILERS (91%); CITIES (89%); ZONING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (87%); MAYORS (87%); SUBURBS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%); EVIDENCE (61%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



260 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: More Attacks On Dinkins As Giuliani Speeds Pace

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
Harshly criticizing the Mayor over asbestos problems in city schools, then reaching into the Bronx and Jackson Heights to shore up Hispanic support, Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday continued his aggressive effort to challenge Mayor David N. Dinkins and move his campaign to a higher pitch.
In the last several days Mr. Giuliani has opened offices around the city, begun a television campaign and heated up his charges against the Mayor as a "catchup" politician driven by reaction, not action. 
 Yesterday Mr. Giuliani used disclosures about failures in the asbestos testing program for schools to attack the Mayor for failing to name a replacement for Norman Steisel as one of three directors of the School Construction Authority. Mr. Steisel resigned from the board three and a half years ago to join the Dinkins administration as deputy mayor.
"How is it that after three and a half years he has yet to make that appointment?" he said. "I can't see how that can be if he really is interested in the schools."
 
Passive Government
 Although the asbestos testing failures occurred before Mr. Dinkins took office, Mr. Giuliani said the current crisis was reflective of what he called passive government by the Dinkins administration. He said that the Mayor was prone to react only during times of crisis and that the problem with the schools would have been addressed much earlier by a more active administration.
"I would have had regular meetings with school authorities and the board," Mr. Giuliani said. "There should be regularly scheduled cabinet meetings. The Mayor should know about these things."
Leland T. Jones, the Mayor's press secretary, acknowledged yesterday that the the construction authority post was still vacant, terming it "a hard position to fill." He added: "But that's not the real issue. The construction authority had nothing to do with the tests that occurred in 1987 through 1989. It's like saying that the U.S. Attorney for New York should have prevented the savings-and-loan scandal."
Since Friday, Mr. Giuliani has formally opened campaign headquarters in Woodside and Astoria in Queens and Brighton Beach in Brooklyn. Those offices, coupled with offices in Manhattan and Staten Island, give him a full-time campaign presence in all boroughs but the Bronx.
 
A 'Stealth' Campaign
 Those moves, while routine, may help Mr. Giuliani combat criticisms by supporters of Mr. Dinkins that the Republican-Liberal candidate has been waging a "stealth" campaign intended to take advantage of every misstep made by Mr. Dinkins while keeping a low enough profile to minimize any missteps of his own.
Another sign of a shift in the campaign is clear in Mr. Giuliani's schedule for the coming week. Though he has spent much of the summer on routine tasks like parades and raising funds, he is to give his first major policy speech tomorrow in Manhattan.
Due to be presented at a gathering of supporters and friends at a morning meeting at the Sheraton New York, the speech is to focus on his economic policies and is likely to concentrate on his intention to reduce taxes, shrink the size of city government through attrition and increase "privatization."
Other major speeches on such issues as crime, education and jobs are expected to follow within the month, said Christine Lategano, a campaign aide.
But yesterday it was politics as usual for both Mr. Giuliani and the Mayor as they courted Hispanic voters at the Bronx Puerto Rican Day Parade. Mr. Dinkins, who was among the first in the long line of marchers, was flanked on one side by Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, and on the other by Jose Torres, the former boxing champion and current deputy manager of the Dinkins campaign.
Mr. Torres has been criticized recently by the Giuliani campaign for suggesting that people with racist tendencies were more inclined to vote for Mr. Giuliani.
 
Waving Puerto Rican Flags
 As Mr. Dinkins and his entourage passed, women waving Puerto Rican flags screeched his name, and waved for him to come over and greet them. Young men also cheered, offering the Mayor the thumbs-up sign. Some of that response, of course, was the result of Mr. Dinkins walking beside Mr. Torres, who remains a popular figure. Occassionally, however, there was some booing for the Mayor, with one group of young men hollering: "Where's Rudy. He's our man."
Mr. Giuliani was joined by Herman Badillo, the Democrat who has also joined the candidate's "fusion" campaign to run as comptroller. Together they shook hands, kissed babies and hugged women who shouted and jumped at the sight of Mr. Badillo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); PUERTO RICANS; PARADES ASBESTOS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (89%); MAYORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



261 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Staten Island Secession More Than Fringe Threat

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
The distance between SoHo and Staten Island is a short hike and a 50-cent ferry ride, but for Daniel Singletary, a New York artist who has lived on Staten Island for more than 20 years, the mental gap is meaner than the flooded Mississippi.
"I don't know how long I've been going in to the Manhattan art world but I'm still considered the Staten Island redneck artist," he said. It rankles. So, like a growing number of his neighbors, Mr. Singletary wants to get out of town without ever leaving home: he wants Staten Island to secede. 
 "I'm here because New York City is supposed to be the gateway to the arts of the world," Mr. Singletary said. "But what's the point?" Others have sharper critiques: "We should get out," said a magazine store clerk who expressed the frustrations of many. "New York is shot."
 
Resentment and Distress
 The Staten Island secession movement, once dismissed as pointless grousing from a borough angered by its diminished role in city government, has grown in recent years into a powerful shout of resentment and distress that will go to a vote Nov. 2. A yes vote, which seems increasingly likely, would toss the matter to Albany, where the details of the divorce would be reviewed by the Legislature and then subject to the Governor's approval.
Even die-hard supporters of secession do not think that the proposal will make it through the gantlet in Albany. Yet successful or not, the movement has already sent a disturbing message to City Hall that the city's center may no longer hold. Once a virtual paradigm of the city's immigrant, working-class base, Staten Island's mostly white, politically conservative population has in the 1990's suddenly become -- psychologically at least -- a minority in a city now best known for its polyglot liberalism and new immigrants.
We haven't changed, Staten Islanders argue; the city has.
Coming while New York City is struggling with crime, homelessness, a perennially tight budget and a tarnished image as a megalopolis out of control, their anger is an anathema to city politicians who want to cling to the glory days of old. But worst, it sends a stab of fear that if Staten Island were to go, could Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx be far behind?
A breakup of the Big Apple would indicate rot at the core. New York would no longer really be New York. Even some song lyrics would have to change. "We'll have Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island too" just wouldn't make it any more. But then again, the title of that famous New York song is a rebuke itself: "Manhattan."
 
Bigger Than Buffalo
 While its population of 380,000 is dwarfed by borough giants like Brooklyn, with more than two million people, an independent city of Staten Island would surpass Buffalo as the second-largest city in the state and would be comparable in size to Miami, Minneapolis, Atlanta, Oakland, Calif., or St. Paul -- an appealing thought to island residents who feel perennially undervalued.
The cost of that independence would be high, however. Most early studies show that taxes on the island would almost surely rise -- with property taxes in some cases perhaps doubling or tripling. So strong is the sentiment, though, that a study conducted by the New York Charter Commission for Staten Island last year showed that 49 percent of those polled would accept a 25 percent increase in their taxes in exchange for their own city. A more recent, though less thorough, poll taken by the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce found 73 percent in favor, higher taxes and all. That body's directors also voted overwhelmingly to accept the Chamber's Secession Task Force recommendation to break free.
Those conclusions quantify a discontent that has been felt and expressed for years. In fact, Staten Island, the smallest of the city's boroughs, is different. Sixty-nine percent of its population is of Italian, Irish or German descent. Only about 5 percent of the island's residents are black. Less than 10 percent of families with a child under 18 fall below the poverty line, compared with a citywide average two and one-half times as large. And residents are more likely to have a telephone, a car and a mortgage -- the usual trappings of middle America -- than other New Yorkers.
 
Class, Race and Emotion
 The demographic differences disturb some critics who see the secession movement as spurred by issues of class and race. But David Goldfarb, the president of Staten Islanders for a Unified New York, says he believes, instead, that the movement is simply a matter of misplaced emotion. "There is a lot of dislike of the city of New York," he said. "And independence is a nice concept. But if we secede we will have no say at all and the city will still be the main economic engine."
Mr. Goldfarb says that much has already been lost in the debate. He has a son who just graduated from Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, which specializes in mathematics and science. If the island seceded, would other students have that same option? It is just one of many questions that would arise in a breakup, but it touches Mr. Goldfarb's fears that access to such city strengths would be squandered in exchange for higher taxes and the bureaucratic nightmare of setting up a city government virtually from scratch.
Mayor David N. Dinkins has far more to lose. If secession succeeded, he would forever be remembered as the Mayor who let his city fall apart. So he articulated his own opposition with the simplest of phrases: "We need them. And they need us."
For Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor, the immediate dilemma is more difficult. Mr. Giuliani, who won 77.4 percent of Staten Island's vote in his last run for mayor in 1989, hardly wants to lose that supportive district. But neither does he want to alienate one of his most solid voting blocs by directly criticizing their ambitions. Instead, he blames the Dinkins administration for the bad feelings.
 
Giuliani Blames Dinkins
 "I know what it is that is making them want to go," Mr. Giuliani said of impatient Staten Islanders. "The Mayor tries to put it in racial terms and that makes things worse."
In an interview on Saturday, Mr. Giuliani said he believed that sentiment in favor of secession had risen drastically during Mr. Dinkins's four years in office. He said that a better-managed city that paid more attention to borough needs in areas like schools and the management of the Fresh Kills landfill would improve the situation. "In the last few years we have seen the basic quality of the management of the city decline," he said.
For Mr. Giuliani, casting the matter as a complaint against the Mayor works several ways. He can stand as a strong supporter of the borough, criticize the Mayor and oppose secession all at once.
Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island borough president, has shifted his own stance from opposition to grudging, reserved acceptance as support for the referendum has gained momentum. "I am probably going to vote for it," he said hesitantly. "But I'll vote for it fully expecting the tax on my house to double or triple."
 
Whole New Bureaucracy
 Mr. Molinari's real hesitation, he says, is not just a tax increase but the difficulty of setting up an entirely new bureaucracy complete with police, fire, sewer and other services. Just one of many nuisances, he said, would be the requirement for the island, which still has large swaths of undeveloped land, to put in its own sewer lines. Such burdens could slow growth, raise taxes and lead to a tangle of other problems.
"People have asked me, 'Mr. Molinari, wouldn't you really like to be the first Mayor of Staten Island?' " he said. "And I answer very tersely: 'NO!' Let their names be on the first tax bills to go out."
In fact, the tax question is still vague and will need considerably more study. Some of the anticipated $170 million shortfall in revenue could be made up in real-estate taxes. Another possible income source would be a personal income tax. Yet Mr. Molinari and others who have qualms about secession warn that obtaining that particular tax could be a problem, since Albany has approved it only once before outside New York City, in the case of Yonkers, which faced bankrupcy at the time.
Mr. Molinari, having studied the existing reports, has commissioned yet more, perhaps casting about for darker findings. Borough politicians themselves are split on the matter. "It's what I call tribal warfare on Staten Island," said Joseph P. Viteritti, the executive director of the State Charter Commission for Staten Island, explaining the bad blood that has developed over time.
 
More and More Reports
 A result, he said, is dueling reports. In the months before the election two new studies are due to be completed. The borough has hired the consulting firm of Towers-Perrin Inc. of Virginia and Freelance Economics, another group from Albany, to review the proposal and deliver findings just as voters head off to the polls.
Dr. Viteritti says he thinks the plan could work. A study by his group revealed a Staten Island revenue base of $955.4 million, exceeding the $833 million average annual operating budgets of other cities of similar size that were studied by the commission. His study also reports that the island's long-term economic prospects are good. It is one of the fastest growing counties in the New York metropolitan area; it did not suffer a decline in employment since 1989 as the rest of the city did; the population is expected to grow by 20 percent by the year 2010 and employment should expand by 23 percent.
Perhaps just as important, he thinks New Yorkers themselves would not be bothered. "My own feeling is if you polled New Yorkers in the rest of the city they wouldn't care one way or another if Staten Island stayed or went," he said.
If it did go, the hardest work would come in defining the terms of a breakup. Since Staten Island has been intertwined with New York City for nearly 100 years, shoveling money into city coffers and getting services and status in exchange, just who would own a New York City-owned fire station, police building or other bit of infrastructure? And what, if any, stake would a Staten Islander retain in, say, Yankee Stadium?
 
Whither the Landfill?
 Harder, still, would be deciding whether a city of Staten Island would need high-cost items like bomb squads, SWAT teams and other special services demanded by a city like New York. And what to do with the Fresh Kills landfill, the nation's largest, which each year takes acre upon acre of New York City's garbage?
For all the importance of those practical matters, however, it is emotions, not arcana, that are still driving the debate. "It's reasonable to say, 'This city is too damn big; let's break it up,' " said Dr. Viteritti. "But when you get beyond that, you get to all the political questions. And that's the trouble. It's another nail in the coffin for New York City."
Mark F. Muscaro, president of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce, argues that cost should be ignored. "Everyone would survive," he said. "This whole thing is like the breakup of A.T.& T. It's the same kind of situation as that faced by the Russian republics after the fall of the Soviet Union."
Mr. Singletary, the artist, just wants to keep his hometown feel. He says he feels far from the mean streets of New York and the issues that drive life across the harbor. His New York City is a place where tennis shoes dangle from telephone wires, shopkeepers stop to chat and crew cuts and big hair are not a retro-campy fashion statement. He wants to keep it that way. Even if it means goodbye.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With secession on their minds, many Staten Island residents view New York City as being worlds away. (pg. A1); The Staten Island secession movement is growing again, with a vote scheduled for Nov. 2, but the cost could be high. James Downey of Staten Island, who works for the New York City Sanitation Department, said that if the island seceded he might lose his job. He attended a neighborhood block party; Staten Island's mostly white, politically conservative population has in the 1990's suddenly become a minority in a city known for its polyglot liberalism and new immigrants. Residents there, like those in the New Dorp neighborhood, are also more likely to have a car and a mortgage than other New Yorkers. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Graphs: "Secession Vote: Staten Island: A Very Different Slice of New York" shows the following 1990 census data:
 
POPULATION (in thousands)
 St. Paul, Minn. -- 272.2
 Oakland, Calif. -- 273.2
 Staten Island -- 379.0
Atlanta, Ga. -- 394.0
 Portland, Ore. -- 437.3
 Austin, Tex. -- 465.6
 Bronx -- 1,203.8
 Manhattan -- 1,487.5
 Queens -- 1,951.6
 Brooklyn -- 2,301.0
 New York City -- 7,323.0
 
RACE AND ETHNICITY
 ("Hispanic" can be of any race; "Other" category is omitted)
 
New York City
 White -- 43%
 Black -- 25%
 Hispanic -- 24%
 Asian -- 7%
 
Brooklyn
 White -- 40%
 Black -- 35%
 Hispanic -- 20%
 Asian -- 5%
 
Queens
 White -- 48%
 Black -- 20%
 Hispanic -- 20%
 Asian -- 12%
 
Manhattan
 White -- 49%
 Black -- 18%
 Hispanic -- 26%
 Asian -- 7%
 
Staten Island
 White -- 80%
 Black -- 7%
 Hispanic -- 8%
 Asian -- 4%
 
INCOME
 (Median household income; percent figures represent the percentage of families living below the poverty line)
 Staten Island -- $43,861 (6.3%)
 Queens -- $34,186 (8.3%)
 Manhattan -- $32,262 (17.4%)
 N.Y.C. -- $29,823 (16.3%)
 Brooklyn -- $25,684 (19.5%)
 Bronx -- $21,944 (25.7%)
 
EDUCATION
 
Staten Island
 Percentage of people over age 25 who are high school graduates -- 79%
 Portion over age 25 who are college graduates -- 21%
 
Manhattan
 Percentage of people over age 25 who are high school graduates -- 75%
 Portion over age 25 who are college graduates -- 42%
 
Queens
 Percentage of people over age 25 who are high school graduates -- 71%
 Portion over age 25 who are college graduates -- 21%
 
New York City
 Percentage of people over age 25 who are high school graduates -- 68%
 Portion over age 25 who are college graduates -- 23%
 
Brooklyn
 Percentage of people over age 25 who are high school graduates -- 64%
 Portion over age 25 who are college graduates -- 17%
 
Bronx
 Percentage of people over age 25 who are high school graduates -- 59%
 Portion over age 25 who are college graduates -- 12% (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFERENDUMS; SECESSION SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (86%); FERRIES (78%); CITIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); GOVERNORS (66%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



262 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Review/Opera;
Seekers of the Unusual Find It Twice at Santa Fe

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M., Aug. 8

 BODY:
A visitor to the Santa Fe Opera has to admire the delicacy with which the company's season is balanced. Of its five productions, only "The Magic Flute" and "La Boheme" can be heard anywhere, anytime. The double bill of Kurt Weill rarities is guaranteed to lure specialists and the adventurous. But in some ways Handel's "Xerxes" and Strauss's "Capriccio" are the season's most alluring offerings. Because neither is frequently staged, they appeal to seekers of the unusual. As sheer entertainment, both offer abundant charms. And Santa Fe has assembled its starriest casts of the summer for them.
The Handel, on Thursday evening, was also Frederica von Stade's return to the stage after strained vocal cords forced her to cancel several performances this summer. Miss von Stade was in generally good voice, and if there were traces of huskiness in her middle and lower registers, the top of her voice was as pure and smooth as ever. 
 "Xerxes" has an impossibly twisted plot. The young King Xerxes is in love with Romilda. But Romilda is in love with Xerxes's brother Arsamene, who returns the feelings. Xerxes himself is betrothed to Amastre, who arrives disguised as a soldier only to hear that she has been forsaken. And Romilda's sister Atalanta covets Arsamene. Backstairs scheming, misdirected letters and the efforts of Ariodate (Romilda's father) and Elviro (Arsamene's servant) first put all asunder and then set everything right.
It makes great sense to stage a work of this kind in English. Steven Wadsworth, who directed the production, provided his own translation, with additional material by Carol Borah Palca. Mr. Wadsworth's text was often freewheeling, and there were times when he took questionable liberties for the sake of keeping the audience laughing. But overall, his rhymed and eminently singable text conveyed the spirit of the Italian original. And his thoughtful direction turned the text's repetitiveness into an advantage. Arias were not merely sung, but were staged in ways that drew different nuances from every repeated verse.
Mr. Wadsworth also transported the story from Xerxes' Persia, circa 470 B.C., to Handel's 18th-century England; but since the plot has nothing to do with the historical Xerxes, that hardly mattered. The production, designed by Thomas Lynch, used a single set, the exterior of a modest country house. But the staging's precise detail -- from Martin Pakledinaz's period costumes, to the candlelit, wallpapered rooms glimpsed through the windows and the servants occupied with mundane chores -- made up for the lack of scene changes.
There were no real deficits in the casting, musically or dramatically. At times, Miss von Stade's Xerxes edged dangerously close to her Cherubino; but if she overplayed the king's youthful, lovelorn side, she portrayed his vulnerabilities with a winning sympathy.
Dawn Upshaw was a joy as Romilda. She moved through Handel's ornate writing with incomparable ease. Her coloration invariably matched the demands of the text, and her supple performance proved again that she is a superb comic actress.
Arsamene was played by Brian Asawa, a countertenor who made an indelible impression at the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions winners concert a few seasons ago. Few countertenors produce a timbre as beautiful, as fully supported or as consistently well-projected as Mr. Asawa's, and his portrayal was as dramatically sensitive as it was firmly sung.
In the smaller roles, Mimi Lerner was a strong, touching Amastre. Erie Mills's model for Atalanta must have been Gracie Allen: she seemed ditsy rather than scheming, and she sang her music smoothly. George Hogan and Kevin Langan gave solid, comic performances as Elviro and Ariodate. Now and then some of the ornamentation went slightly awry, but for the most part the singers handled the decorative writing expertly. They were supported by generally fine playing from an orchestra of mostly modern instruments, with recorders, a lute and a harpsichord adding a hint of period flavor. Kenneth Montgomery was the conductor and kept things moving at a comfortable pace.
The Strauss operas have always been favorites of John Crosby, the company's founder and general director. Of the composer's 15 operas, the company has staged all but "Guntram" and "Die Frau ohne Schatten." The new "Capriccio," in an English translation by Maria Massey Pelikan, does not move the company closer to completing the series. But it is a ravishing score, and on Friday evening Mr. Crosby conducted a performance that illuminated many of its strengths as well as its principal weakness, a lack of economy.
But perhaps economy was not the order of the day. "Capriccio" was Strauss's last opera, and in turning down further projects, he described it as his "one testament." It is, after all, a treatise on opera itself. Using the story of an 18th-century French countess and her two suitors, the poet Olivier and the composer Flamand, Strauss explores (inconclusively) the question of whether words or music are more expressive. But the listener never cares much who wins the Countess. The artistic discussion is always the focus.
This abstract quality of the work is reflected fully in the production. Wolfgang Gussmann suggests the 18th-century setting with period furniture and costumes. But all the costumes and furniture are stark white, and they are set in a room with deep blue walls, devoid of detail. It is as if the characters and their debates are like fleeting clouds in an azure sky.
Sheri Greenawald was undaunted by the high tessitura of the Countess's music, and her portrayal fully captured the assurance with which the Countess controls her milieu. But Miss Greenawald was not entirely successful in making the text understood, a significant flaw in this wordy, philosophical work.
Mark Thomsen and James Michael McGuire gave vocally solid, dramatically sympathetic portrayals of Flamand and Olivier. Eric Halfvarson's La Roche came to life compellingly in his free-ranging discourse on the nature of art. Richard Stilwell's dry-voiced Count was passable, and Katherine Ciesinski's sultry portrayal of Clairon was a worthy contribution. Generally, though, the singers, like the characters they portrayed, commanded the attention less fully than the issues they sang about. Strauss probably would have found that pleasing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Thomsen, left, and James Michael McGuire in "Capriccio." (Hans Fahrmeyer/Santa Fe Opera)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CAPRICCIO (OPERA); XERXES (OPERA)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (58%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SANTA FE OPERA

ORGANIZATION: SANTA FE OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (58%); NEW MEXICO, USA (58%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS OPERA (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



263 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Head-On Look at the Ethics of Hunting Animals

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

Bloodties
Nature, Culture and the Hunt
By Ted Kerasote
Map. 277 pages. Random House. $22. 
 It is easy enough to dismiss as crackpot some of the thinking that opposes the killing of animals. Ted Kerasote, a nature writer, cites examples in his sensitive report "Bloodties: Nature, Culture and the Hunt," a book that ends up cautiously on the side of hunting. There are, for instance, his nonhunting neighbors where he lives in western Wyoming who take the lead of the civil rights and feminist movements and argue that killing animals -- whether for food or sport -- is, as the author paraphrases the case, "an expression of a long-standing patriarchal culture's enslavement of a minority group that must be ended." As this argument concludes, "Animals, like others who have been disenfranchised, must be given rights."
Mr. Kerasote makes a powerful case against such fanaticism. He once tried avoiding meat but found that there was no escape from killing animals. To embrace what he calls supermarket vegetarianism was to condone a system that does its own form of killing, by clearing land for farming, by creating "ecological traps" that attract and kill a variety of small creatures, by using pesticides, by carrying produce to market and by developing the fossil fuels needed for that transportation.
"In short," he writes, "being a supermarket vegetarian didn't take me out of the web in which animals are constantly dying to feed humans, it merely put their deaths over the horizon, making them, in the bloodless jargon of cost-accounting, externalities." Planting an organic garden wasn't the answer either, since like so much of the world, his part of the country wasn't suitable for such farming, and to drive somewhere to buy organic produce would only increase its fossil fuel cost.
No, Mr. Kerasote found that to kill a 150-pound elk would expend 79,000 kilocalories of fossil fuel energy according to an analysis done at Cornell University; whereas to consume the caloric equivalent in Idaho potatoes would use up 151,000 kilocalories of fossil fuel energy. Better to kill the elk, so long as he was honorable about it and looked the dying elk in the eye.
Yet Mr. Kerasote makes the case against hunting too, against the wanton harvesting of specimens just for the sake of cutting another notch in your sense of dominion. In a section that drips with subtle disdain, he introduces us to several trophy hunters hell-bent on shooting one of every creature that boarded Noah's Ark, and the biggest possible one at that. He even accompanies a few of them on a trip to Siberia to shoot Marco Polo sheep, and reports how one intrepid hunter killed an animal after it had been herded into shooting range by helicopters, no less.
So where is one to turn for an answer to the question, Is it wrong to kill animals? The power of "Bloodties" lies in the way it forces the reader to feel the inescapable tragedy of being both part of nature and outside of it, of having to participate in the violence of sustaining life and yet having to be conscious of the pain inevitably inflicted. The narrative begins with the author's visit to an Eskimo village in Greenland, among people whose only food source is the narwhals, seals and polar bears they can kill.
These people were slow to accept the author because they feared he was with Greenpeace, an environmental organization that, he says, brought economic hardship to the Eskimos by opposing the clubbing of juvenile harp seals in Newfoundland and thereby inadvertently affecting the killing of ringed seals in Greenland. But gradually they came to trust him, and took him along on some of their dogsled hunts.
Next he turns to the trophy hunters, one of whose number, an Alaskan billionaire, says of hunting: "To me it's the same as business. . . . It's goal seeking, it's thrilling, and it gives an extreme sense of self-reliance, self-accomplishment, overcoming almost any difficulty, because the hunter has to go across the river and up the mountain."
Finally, Mr. Kerasote embraces a synthesis, which unfortunately turns out to be none other than himself. This is not as pompously self-serving as it may sound. By looking inward, he can better describe the respectful form of hunting he advocates than if he had interviewed some like-minded person. But his prose in this final section suffers a little.
As a nature writer, he takes as one of his models Henry Beston's classic work, "The Outermost House" (1928), an account of a year spent living in a shack on a beach in Cape Cod. Mr. Kerasote's acute awareness of his surroundings goes well with the excitement of the Greenland hunt: "Over the ice cap the full moon had risen and, to the northwest, the sun skidded along the horizon, tinting the frozen sea the color of wild roses. When it set, the sky above it turned lilac, then lavender, then a clear and profound celestial blue containing one bright star."
But when he is back home in Wyoming, going through the daily rounds of a freelance writer, his sensitivity to nature can teeter toward tedious self-indulgence: "Spring! Spring at last! Spring at home, after so many months away. It's good to lie in bed in the morning, underneath the warm elk hide, as the first pale light takes away the darkness, and listen to the deer chewing the rose hip bushes just beneath the bedroom window, while the caw of ravens floats faintly in the air."
Still, it never takes long for Mr. Kerasote to turn up some new and curious aspect of the hunting debate. And when he has finished summing it all up, it's hard to argue with his final objective. This is to remove the gratuitous forms of pain from the world, and learn to inflict only "the instrumental pain caused by the honest biological clamor of our guts' wanting to be fed . . . which seems irreducible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ted Kerasote (Kim Fadiman/Random House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLOODTIES: NATURE, CULTURE AND THE HUNT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); WYOMING, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); WRITERS (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (75%); ETHICS (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); PESTICIDES (66%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; KERASOTE, TED

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



264 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
'Rising Sun' Is Old Business

BYLINE: By ROGER M. PANG

 BODY:
Asians in American movies are typically portrayed as comedians, geishas, villains or karate masters. In "Rising Sun," based on the book by Michael Crichton, history has repeated itself: The Asians are the villains.
The book is ostensibly a mystery revolving around the murder of a white American woman. Mr. Crichton's larger purpose is to present a dark vision of Japan's economic ambitions. Read either as a thriller or a tract, the book portrays the Japanese as hard-edged exploiters of an increasingly vulnerable America. 
 The movie isn't as offensive as the book; the Japanese do not bear all the blame. Even so, The Times's movie critic Vincent Canby correctly wrote: "It still offends. It directs attention not to the internal reasons for America's economic problems, but to inscrutable, generalized, unknown others from abroad.. . ."
Only one Japanese character in the movie has a multidimensional role -- a sleazy playboy played by Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa. The rest of the Japanese characters are muscle-head yakuza -- Japanese gangsters -- or blue-suited businessmen who want to take over the U.S. by any means necessary.
Asian-Americans worry that ignorant people may not differentiate Asians in movies from Asian-Americans. I am occasionally blamed for the bombing of Pearl Harbor, even though I am a third-generation Chinese-American. And ever since Asians immigrated to the United States, they have had to live with the stereotype of the sneaky invader.
Crimes against Asians increased by 44 percent in New York and 100 percent in Los Angeles County from 1991 to 1992. Last year in Florida, an Asian premed student was beaten to death by a group of white men after the student objected to a slur spoken by one of them. And I can't forget Vincent Chin, a Chinese-American, who was killed in 1982 by two unemployed, white American auto workers because they thought he was Japanese.
Hollywood needs to get real, not only about Asian-Americans but all Americans of color. It needs to stop stereotyping minorities. One place to start is to involve more minority writers in feature films. According to the latest report by the Writers Guild of America, fewer than 3 percent of the writers for major feature films are members of minority groups.
For a while it seemed the movie industry was showing some sense with the release of movies like "Dragon," which showed Asian actors in more complex roles. "Rising Sun" is a step backward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: RISING SUN (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (59%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (59%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILM (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); WRITERS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); RACE & RACISM (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MURDER (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); BOMBINGS (65%); 

PERSON: CRICHTON, MICHAEL; PANG, ROGER M JOHN MICHAEL 'MICHAEL' CRICHTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



265 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Let's Take Closer Look at China's Prison Labor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I am concerned with the tone and implications of "Get Serious About Chinese Prison Labor" (editorial, July 21). Having just returned from a tour of four penal institutions in China, I think the issue of prison labor needs a more balanced examination. 
 Prison labor is used extensively throughout the United States and most other penal systems. Products made by prison labor are placed in the streams of commerce in this country and abroad. Productive work is recognized and encouraged as a key element in every rehabilitative penal program. It is simplistic and unreasonable to condemn the export of goods made by prison labor in China without identifying the real issues that should concern us.
Are the conditions in which the labor is performed safe, humane and comparable to other workplaces within China? Do the profits from production support the penal institution and benefit the inmates who perform the work? Are the inmates who are selected to work fit, and do they receive sufficient nutrition and health care to perform the work?
The Chinese Government is demonstrating an increasing willingness to open its society and institutions to achieve trade and cultural exchange with the West. We should encourage this openness and use it for increased access for necessary inspection and verification of conditions of prison labor. But draconian threats and sanction-rattling will not result in the changes we seek.
We must take care that prison labor is not used as a pretext for imposing protectionist economic barriers that single out the Chinese for punishment. Within the restrictions of applicable law, the Clinton Administration must work with and not against the Chinese to bring them fully within the family of nations.
 
JANE BOND
Akron, Ohio, July 28, 1993
The writer is a judge of the Court of Common Pleas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; LABOR PRISONS (96%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); NUTRITION (52%); 

PERSON: BOND, JANE (JUDGE) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



266 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Deriding Deficit Remedies

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Just Say No to Clinton's Package" by Ronald Reagan (Op-Ed, Aug. 3): I find it appalling that the man who got us into the deficit nightmare derides the first efforts to do something about it. While no one, including President Clinton, thinks the final budget proposal is a panacea, it is a step to quell the hemorrhaging embraced by Ronald Reagan and his ilk as they robbed from the future to pay for what was mostly defense toys. 
 However, the most embarrassing remark in the article is his statement that the President is ill advised to raise taxes on those who did well in the 1980's because, in Mr. Reagan's view, "practically every American benefited from that era."
I know that things may look that way from a lush ranch in California. But I invite the Reagans to walk the streets of any neighborhood in New York City. I would like Mr. Reagan to ask the people who sleep in doorways on every block with their children if the social programs he raided to pay for defense have made them better off. Or to ask the middle-class apartment owners who bought at inflated prices with exorbitant mortgage rates in a glutted market if they are better off now that they can't sell to break even. Ask any urban dwellers who lived through the 80's if all the Federal funds denied the nation's cities benefited their daily lives.
But what is most astounding to me is that the man who left us such a feeble economic legacy is spouting the same voodoo economics that put us in the straits we are in. Mr. Reagan's problem when he was in power was his myopia to the problems facing America; he simply waved the flag and told us all not to worry. He's still myopic.
 
DENISE R. GUILLET
New York, Aug. 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; GUILLET, DENISE R RONALD REAGAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993



267 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON DOUBLING FEES FOR GRAZING ON FEDERAL LANDS

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9

 BODY:
Returning to an issue set aside when it appeared to threaten the budget negotiations, the Clinton Administration announced today that it would more than double grazing fees for ranchers who use Federal land. The move is a major step toward reshaping Western land policy.
Environmentalists heralded the action and predicted it would reduce harm to wildlife, forests and streams that they say is caused by grazing on public land. 
 Western Republicans condemned it as a betrayal, while Democratic senators from the West said the measures were less severe than the proposals President Clinton had originally made in his budget -- proposals that they had persuaded him to drop.
 
More Changes Planned
 Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, who announced the fee increases and new controls over water rights and the use of public land, said changes in Federal land-use would be announced next month. He and other Administration officials described the move as part of a wide-ranging effort to reverse a century of Federal policy that promoted development in the Far West with Government subsidies.
The new land management policy, Administration officials predict, will mean that miners will begin paying royalties for mining gold and other metals, timber companies will no longer log national forests at below-market prices and farmers will begin to pay surcharges to irrigate Federal land.
"It's about our commitment and our responsibility to live more lightly on the land," Mr. Babbitt said. "It's about asserting our American heritage, the landscape, the resources and the culture that constitutes the American West."
 
A Victory for Babbitt
 The policy announcement represented a victory for Mr. Babbitt, who as a former Governor of Arizona has vehemently argued within the Administration that the President can overturn outdated land policies without committing political suicide in the West. His advocacy for environmental issues has been so strong that environmental groups lobbied against his appointment as a Supreme Court Justice two months ago when it appeared that Mr. Clinton might select him.
Administration officials said the grazing fee change, which would apply to owners of livestock that graze on 280 million acres of public range, should generate on average an extra $20 million a year for the Treasury as it is phased in by 1996 -- about $4 million less than the Administration had originally proposed.
The timing of the announcement appeared designed to help the President shed the impression that he had put aside his environmental principles to buy votes for his deficit-reduction plan, which Congress Congress by the thinnest possible margin last week. In February, several Western senators had threatened to withhold their votes for the Clinton economic plan unless the Administration took certain grazing and mining fee provisions out of the legislation.
The President acceded to their request, and was widely criticized for buckling under even though he said then that he would return to the issue with an administrative order. Theoretically, the order could be reversed by a vote of both houses of Congress, but the House has long supported similar proposals.
 
Sharp Republican Criticism
 Some Republicans in Congress sharply criticized today's move as a betrayal of ranchers. "This proposal is misguided and shows the lack of knowledge Secretary Babbitt and his extremist crowd have about current range land conditions," said Senator Conrad Burns, a Montana Republican. "Ranchers are the best stewards of the land."
But the reaction of Democratic senators from the West was far milder, with some saying they had expected the Administration's decision and did not feel that the President had gone back on his word. One Senate Democratic aide said that while Western senators could not have voted for legislation that included the grazing fees, they understand that they cannot win on every issue.
"I don't like it, but it's not as bad as it could have been," said Senator Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat who asked in February that the President take the proposed grazing and mining fees out of the economic plan. Mr. Reid said today that the decision could actually help ranchers if it brought "finality to the issue."
Administration officials said the timing of the announcement had nothing to do with the passage of the budget, but rather to happen before Mr. Babbitt left for a three-week trip to Alaska.
Under the Administration's new policy, monthly grazing fees will rise from the current $1.86 for each animal unit -- defined as a cow and calf or five sheep -- to $4.28 in three years. The value of such rights on private land is estimated at $5 to $15 depending on the land.
The level of grazing fees has long been a contentious political issue, causing disputes between Congress and the White House and between a handful of Western senators and the rest of Congress.
The fee of $1.86 per animal unit was set by the Reagan and Bush Administrations, although Federal leases are supposed to be set at fair market values. The House strongly objected to the policy, and in July 1991 passed a Bureau of Land Management authorization bill that raised fees to $8.70. But nothing close to that price could win approval in the Senate.
In Mr. Clinton's original proposal, monthly fees would have been increased to $5. The new fee the Administration has settled on still represents a subsidy, and it will grow as inflation widens the gap between the market and Federal prices as the new fee is phased in over three years.
"We believe that Government handouts to the livestock industry should be ended, not just reduced," said Melanie Griffin, a Sierra Club expert on land management issues. "However, what's more important than the fee is the change in mindset that this proposal represents."
 
'A Matter of Process'
 Still, White House officials said today that the action on the grazing fees was not a change of Administration policy, but a fulfillment of Mr. Clinton's original plan to raise grazing fees. "We always said it was just a matter of process," said George Stephanopoulos, a senior White House policy adviser. "We're just keeping our commitment."
Mr. Babbitt called the new fee "a reasonable balance between the need to sustain the health of range land and the need to sustain the economic health of rural Western areas." He said the Administration intended to announce new mining regulations next month, followed by new rules on timber and water rights.
The raising of grazing fees came in a package of new land-use regulations announced by Mr. Babbitt today. The Administration also established new standards for range lands, putting far more emphasis on environmental concerns than had the two previous Administrations. From now on, the length of grazing seasons on public lands will be shortened, the use of pesticides curtailed and grazing leases will be broken when ranchers are found to be mismanaging the land they use.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Gap in Fees" shows average monthly grazing fee per animal unit for 11 Western states from 1980 to 1993. (Source: National Agricultural Statistics Services, U.S.D.A.)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN LAND PROPERTIES (58%); AMERICAN HERITAGE HOMES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); WEST USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; PUBLIC PROPERTY; LAND USE POLICIES; ENVIRONMENT; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; FINANCES FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); LOBBYING (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PROPERTY LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (70%); WATER RIGHTS (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); GOLD MINING (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



268 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: With Budget Won, Sales Pitch Begins

 BODY:
President Clinton opened a drive yesterday to convince the American public of what he narrowly managed to convince Congress last week: that his $496 billion package of spending cuts and tax increases was worthy of its support.
The White House billed the President's visit to West Virginia as a victory lap to celebrate Congressional approval of his five-year economic plan. But his campaign-style rally reflected the Administration's view that though the plan had passed, it remained to be sold. 
 "Now we can truly say change has come to America," Mr. Clinton proclaimed. But the President was also aware of polls showing that public support for the plan remained no more than tepid.
Article, page A16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); APPROVALS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



269 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2180 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDWEST FLOODING;
What's Left From the Great Flood of '93

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Aug. 9

 BODY:
In its two-month rampage, the great Midwest flood of 1993 cut an awesome destructive swath. It took 50 lives, left almost 70,000 people homeless, inundated an area twice the size of New Jersey, caused an estimated $12 billion in property and agricultural damage and stirred anew a debate over the nation's flood-control system and its policies.
The crest of the mighty flood, probably the worst ever to wash over the United States, roiled down the Mississippi past Cairo, Ill., today, and from there south the swollen waters will steadily lose their deadly potency because the river bottom widens drastically. 
 The worst is over in the great flood of '93 and the end is clearly in sight. Now come the damage estimates and the big cleanup, both certain to have their own anguish.
Still to be added up are how many little towns were drowned, how many homes and businesses destroyed and how many roads, bridges and stretches of rail swept away.
But enough is known to consider the flood devastating: about $200 million in damage was done to the nation's rail lines and bridges; hundreds of miles of highway were scarred; and farmers suffered about $8 billion in crop damage.
In the wearying effort to fight back the relentless waters, some 75 million sandbags by some counts were piled, though in the end at least 800 of the region's 1,400 levees were topped or breached.
But for now it is reassuring to the inhabitants of the upper Midwest to know that the most serious threat -- along with the record crests -- has subsided.
"The worst is past and the river is beginning to fall nicely," said Gary Dyhouse, the chief hydrologist here for the Army Corps of Engineers.
There is an epitaph, of sorts, to the flood of '93 on the levee here in front of the soaring Gateway Arch. It is a thin drying line of river detritus, now a full five feet above the Mississippi.
Five full feet.
That is how much the great river, the Father of Waters to Indians, has fallen since cresting a week ago at its highest level on record, 49.5 feet.
And the retreat is similarly under way all over the nine-state disaster zone. Everywhere the marauding waters are pulling back, back from sodden houses and stores and cars and fields and barns, back toward the ripped levees and the big oaks and cottonwoods that mark the normally languid edge of the region's rivers.
"She's pulling out," said Cliff Coppedge, a street cleaner in St. Charles, Mo., a town just west of here, as he hosed a pile of muddy debris back into the receding Missouri.
A month ago, satellite pictures found so much water covering the Midwest that the region resembled a sixth Great Lake. That lake is steadily shrinking, particularly in the upper reaches of the disaster region where the flooding started.
To be sure, it is a grudging, rear-guard retreat, not a rout. The Mississippi is still well out of its banks and still pressuring soggy levees. So is the Missouri.
"The worst is definitely over, but people need to stay on their toes," said Jim Brown, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers. "We're dealing with what probably is the worst flood man has ever witnessed in this country, certainly the Midwest. Some levees could collapse even as the waters recede. The sun has to keep shining. Don't get complacent."
 
'The Water's Been Where It's Never Been Before'
 There are still plenty of places where another month will pass before the waters totally fall back. One of them is a 20-mile stretch of rich bottom land north of here that extends eastward from the outskirts of St. Charles all the way to Alton, Ill., near the point where the Missouri and the Illinois Rivers join the Mississippi.
No place in the entire flooded Midwest was hit harder by this watery avalanche caused by unseasonal rain that fell without surcease for six weeks. There are hundreds of farms and a dozen or more small villages out there that have been under 15 feet of water for two, three and even six weeks or more. Some will still be mucking out come first frost.
"The water's been where it's never been before," said Barb Margherio, whose house in Hardin, Ill., went under when the Illinois, Missouri and Mississippi combined record crests the first couple of days of this month.
Flood experts agree with Ms. Margherio. Some call the great flood of 1993 a "500-year flood," meaning that statistically over the centuries one of its magnitude should hit only once in every 500 years, though, of course, there is no guarantee that a similar or even worse flood will not occur again next spring.
This has been the kind of flood that at its absolute worst, when it was cresting here, was sending 7.5 million gallons of water past the Gateway Arch every second, six times the normal summer flow. Every 24 hours, enough topsoil slipped by in that coffee-brown turmoil to cover five 1,000-acre farms a foot deep.
But that was Aug. 1. Today, in St. Louis -- and places like Marshall, Minn., and Manhattan, Kan., and Des Moines -- the great cleanup from the great inundation had begun.
It is work with its own trauma, hard on the body, hard on the nose, hard on the pocketbook and, worst of all, hard on the mind and soul.
"God, I just hate it," Rachel Carlson lamented as she mucked out her basement in St. Charles, heaving up what looked through a layer of river goo to be a table leaf. "We worked so hard to have a nice place. Now it's like a sewer. Oh, Lord, how I hate it."
Then, somehow managing a mud-speckled smile, she bent back to her task, this time heaving up what looked to be a crushed picture frame.
Try as he might, Old Man River never managed in this summer of drowning human creations to drown the human spirit.
Work crews are moving in determinedly behind the receding waters, sometimes hastening them along toward drains with huge brooms. The crews are hauling off soggy sandbags, sweeping down streets and gathering up tree trunks, oil drums and other wretched refuse, including the occasional gar or catfish hung up in a fence-turned-gill-net.
 
Farmers, the Hardest Hit, Are Eager to Get to Work
 Across the Dakotas and into Wisconsin, then down through Nebraska and Illinois and into Missouri, fields that once resembled small lakes are beginning to dry out and farmers are itching to start fall plowing.
Hundreds of farmers along the Mississippi and Missouri and their tributaries lost most if not all of their crops. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy estimated that 8 million acres had been flooded and that 12 million additional acres were too wet to produce crops, for a total land loss of 31,250 square miles.
The Midwest's farmers are probably the hardest-hit victims of the flood, by some estimates suffering close to $8 billion of the overall $12 billion in damage.
But their perennial optimism survives.
"Being out there in the field is what makes me happy," said Joe O'Day, whose 700 acres of beans and corn were wiped out when a levee near St. Joseph, Mo., collapsed.
Along the region's rail lines, repair crews have begun restoring miles and miles of washed-out rail bed and scores of collapsed bridges, repairs that rail officials say may cost as much as $200 million. Trains are slowly beginning to roll again, no longer forced to make 500-mile-long detours.
Barge operators, having lost as much as $300 million in revenue because of the flooding, are nudging tows filled with coal, grain and other material back onto the Mississippi and Missouri. During the worst of the flooding, most of the navigable rivers in the Midwest north of Cairo were closed to barges.
Out on the region's highways, at least on those now drying out, workers are dumping sand and rock into hundreds of huge gouges left by scouring waters.
In Missouri alone, engineers calculate that almost 500 miles of highways, including some sections of Interstate, have been seriously hit by the kind of deep, lengthy inundation that undermines and weakens a roadbed, leaving pavement subject to buckling and cracking when the first big truck passes.
Cost to repair: $150 million.
But most impressive and moving of all as the cleanup gets under way is the gritty determination of homeowners to restore what has been lost.
And a lot has been lost.
People are returning to find their dreams have been cruelly twisted into nightmares. Hollow-eyed and weary from frantic sandbag efforts that mostly failed, they make their way back into their living rooms and kitchens and dens, there to gasp and sob, transfixed by the enormousness of it all.
Then, wiping away the tears, they get on with it, trudging muddily in and out of the mess, trip after sad trip, hauling out soggy rugs, encrusted couches and water-logged family treasures, piling them and a lifetime of hard work and memories into reeking heaps on lawns of slime.
When Richard and Debra DeLaet returned to their home on the outskirts of Kansas City, Kan., what they found was typical: A neighbor's lawn chairs in the front yard, oil drums in the side yard, railroad ties in the back yard, their propane tank turned upside down, the flower box gone, and every single thing inside the house -- everything -- totally ruined unless it had been stored or hung at least five feet high.
The place smelled like a cesspool. A dead snake was stretched out on the living room floor. There was still 10 feet of water in the basement and, under that, a good 18 inches of muck.
Mrs. DeLaet headed for the Red Cross disaster center, where she picked up a cleaning kit that included a broom, a mop, a pail, bleach and ammonia. She's still scrubbing, worried about the disease and pollution lurking in the sodden mess, swatting at the ravenous mosquitoes that just love it.
"We've taken our carpets to the dump," she said, beginning a report that just as easily could have come from a flood victim in a thousand other places. "We're going to have to remove all the floors. We'll have to replace all the electrical fixtures, the fuse box, the furnace, the hot-water heater. And they say that once it starts drying out pretty good, more damage will appear -- the walls and such."
Like homeowners, cities and towns that have fallen victim to the flooding also face not only major cleanup problems but major expenses. Worse, many badly depleted their treasuries in the often futile fights against the relentlessly encroaching waters.
Small towns suffered worst of all, mainly because most big cities, the real exception being Des Moines, were protected by unusually strong levees.
Elwood, Kan., a town of 1,200 people on the Missouri, is still under so much water -- 470 of 500 houses and businesses -- that town officials are running what is left out of a Ramada Inn across the river in St. Joseph. The town's only bank, First State, is operating from an office building in St. Joseph.
"We're coming back!" boasted Marcia Sheppard as she pondered how to get her tipped double-wide mobile home back on its foundation.
Elwood and Ms. Sheppard and thousands of other victims of the flood can look to the Federal Government for help in coming back. There are any number of disaster loans and grants available, long-standing programs that cover everything including the cost of sandbags to replacement of homes, offices, barns and even fields of corn. And Congress just approved a $6.2 billion measure to aid in the flood relief effort.
But disaster experts say that, at best, only about half of the damage will be picked up by the Government. And flood insurance will cover relatively little of the rest since policies are expensive and not widely bought.
Government economists calculate that while the damage caused by this summer's flood may be the worst ever in this country, it is small considering the overall size of the American economy and thus unlikely to have much serious affect beyond the Midwest.
Which is small comfort to Peg Hazelwonder of East Hardin, Ill., north of St. Louis.
"This is like a death in the family," she lamented after returning from a boat trip to see her home.
Only the roof was above water.
And what of the damage to the huge, $25 billion system of reservoirs and levees designed to control such flooding by the nation's rivers? While no estimates are in yet, the damage is clearly huge and the failure of the system indisputable.
More than 800 of the 1,400 levees in the region were topped or breached. Most of them were berms built by towns, cities, counties and farmers, but more than 30 levees put up by the Corps of Engineers also failed and several reservoirs built by the Corps proved too small to hold the run-off from six weeks of unseasonal rain.
These failures have fueled a long-running dispute between environmentalists and levee builders about the wisdom of trying to rein in nature and build on flood plains. But this time around, the argument has a new twist.
A few days ago, the levee builders found themselves in the curious position of dynamiting a hole in one berm to relive flood pressure on another.
So it has gone in the great flood of '93, a watery rampage by nature like no other.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roy Beck, who lives along the River des Peres in St. Louis, getting rid of belongings damaged by the floods. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: The figures for damage are preliminary estimates by state and Federal officials. Because states use different calculation methods, some numbers cannot be compared.
 
ILLINOIS
Agricultural damage . . . $605 million
Property damamge . . . . $930 million
Total damage . . . . . . $1.5 billion
Homes damaged . . . . . . 39,300
People evacuated . . . . 12,800
Flood-related deaths . . 4
Disaster areas . . . . . 25 of 102 counties
 
IOWA
Agricultural damage . . . $1.15 billion
Property damamge . . . . $1.00 billion
Total damage . . . . . . $2.2 billion
Homes damaged . . . . . . 12,222
People evacuated . . . . 11,200
Flood-related deaths . . 7
Disaster areas . . . . . 99 of 99 counties
 
KANSAS
Agricultural damage . . . $434 million
Property damamge . . . . $140 million
Total damage . . . . . . $574 million
Homes damaged . . . . . . 2,650
People evacuated . . . . 13,500
Flood-related deaths . . 1
Disaster areas . . . . . 32 of 105 counties
 
MINNESOTA
Agricultural damage . . . $800 million
Property damamge . . . . $223 million
Total damage . . . . . . $1.0 billion
Homes damaged . . . . . . 10,000
People evacuated . . . . 2,750
Flood-related deaths . . 4
Disaster areas . . . . . 36 of 87 counties
 
MISSOURI
Agricultural damage . . . $1.76 billion
Property damamge . . . . $1.25 billion
Total damage . . . . . . $3.0 billion
Homes damaged . . . . . . 12,000
People evacuated . . . . 19,000
Flood-related deaths . . 25
Disaster areas . . . . . 71 of 114 counties
 
NEBRASKA
Agricultural damage . . . $292 million
Property damamge . . . . $55 million
Total damage . . . . . . $347 million
Homes damaged . . . . . . 2,000
People evacuated . . . . 2,700
Flood-related deaths . . 2
Disaster areas . . . . . 49 of 93 counties
 
NORTH DAKOTA
Agricultural damage . . . $706 million
Property damamge . . . . $812 million
Total damage . . . . . . $1.5 billion
Homes damaged . . . . . . 500
People evacuated . . . . 100
Flood-related deaths . . 2
Disaster areas . . . . . 33 of 53 counties
 
SOUTH DAKOTA
Agricultural damage . . . $571 million
Property damamge . . . . $24 million
Total damage . . . . . . $595 million
Homes damaged . . . . . . 1,000
People evacuated . . . . 2,000
Flood-related deaths . . 3
Disaster areas . . . . . 34 of 66 counties
 
WISCONSIN
Agricultural damage . . . $800 million
Property damamge . . . . $109 million
Total damage . . . . . . $909 million
Homes damaged . . . . . . 4,700
People evacuated . . . . 2,500
Flood-related deaths . . 2
Disaster areas . . . . . 42 of 72 counties
 
(All figures in feet)
 
Davenport, Iowa
Flood stage -- 15
Yesterday -- 11.4
Crest (7/9) -- 22.6
No levees
 
Des Moines
Flood stage -- 23
Yesterday -- 21.5
Crest (7/11) -- 34.3
Levee -- 36
 
Quincy Ill.
Flood stage -- 17
Yesterday -- 20.1
Crest (7/13) -- 32.2
No levees
 
Kansas City
Flood stage -- 32
Yesterday -- 27.9
Crest (7/28) -- 48.9
No levees
 
Boonville, Mo.
Flood stage -- 21
Yesterday -- 28.3
Crest (7/30) -- 37.2
No levees
 
St. Louis
Flood stage -- 30
Yesterday -- 43.6
Crest (8/1) -- 49.4
Levees -- 52
 
Ste. Genevieve, Mo.
Flood stage -- 27
Yesterday -- 48.4
Crest (8/6) -- 49.7
No levees
 
(Sources: Army Corps of Engineers; National Weather Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); MISSISSIPPI RIVER UNITED STATES (96%); MIDWEST USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS; FINANCES RIVERS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); FLOOD CONTROL (78%); LAKES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); ARMIES (52%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



270 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long-Term Issue Leads Bond Rally

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond shattered the 6.50 percent level yesterday, falling to 6.46 percent, as the bond market rallied across the board.
But the rally, traders and analysts said, was not necessarily a positive response to Congressional approval of President Clinton's deficit reduction plan late Friday. Rather, the rally resulted from a host of factors, including the fact that the 30-year bond seemed to take on a life of its own, an indication that its spectacular performance was not a reflection of overall market sentiment. 
 One sign of the differing moods in the market was that the price of the 30-year bond rose 27/32 and the yield fell to 6.46 percent, from 6.53 percent on Friday, while the rest of the market showed smaller gains. The price of the 10-year note was up 10/32 as the yield fell to 5.79 percent, from 5.84 percent.
In addition, while the yield on the 30-year bond is at its lowest level since 1977, when the Treasury began issuing 30-year bonds regularly, the yields on other Treasury securities, even the 10-year note, are above their recent lows. The yield on the 10-year note fell to 5.69 percent on July 16.
 
A Closing High for Dow
 In another odd sidelight of the financial markets, the bond market rally helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average 15.65 points higher, to a record of 3,576.08. [Page D6.]
Yet many people in the bond market said the new taxes in the deficit reduction plan would slow economic growth.
"I would have expected a rally in response to the budget, but to see it focused so exclusively on the 30-year bond is a little surprising to me," said Nicholas Sargen, the chief investment officer at Prudential Insurance's Global Advisers.
"The bond is in its own special zone," said William Pike, a managing director at Chemical Securities. The five-year note, he argued, "is a better barometer as to the way the market feels about interest rates." And, he added, while the price of the five-year note rose yesterday and the yield dropped to 5.11 percent, that was still in the middle of its recent trading range.
In addition, there are many investors who are positive about the budget package but for a cynical reason: They say tax increases in the deficit reduction plan will slow economic growth in the near future, making it much less likely that inflation, which is running at an annual rate of slightly more than 3 percent, will become a problem.
"What we've got is consistent with subdued economic growth and lower inflation," Mr. Sargen said. "It's more the cynical view."
Yet there was probably one clearer response to the approval of the budget. That came in the municipal market, where securities are tax-exempt and the higher tax rates approved by Congress should make them much more attractive. Yesterday, municipal bond prices were up a quarter to a half a point.
The rally in the government market comes on the cusp of the Treasury's quarterly auction of 3-year and 10-year notes and 30-year bonds. Often, there is selling ahead of such auctions as traders and dealers get rid of older securities to make room for the new, and hope to drive prices lower so they can get the new securities at a lower price.
But that is not the case in this auction, which begins today with the sale of $16.5 billion in three-year notes. In the pre-auction or when-issued market, the yield on the three-year note fell to 4.46 percent, from 4.49 percent on Friday, while the yield on the 10-year note slipped to 5.76 percent, from 5.80 percent. The yield on the 30-year bond was down to 6.38 percent, from 6.45 percent.
Figuring out exactly why the market is moving is still a game of interpretation.
Howard Steiner, a senior vice president at Mitsubishi Securities, said many traders on Wall Street think the price of the 30-year bond is too high and the yield too low. But as the market continues to rally, they are forced to buy to avoid losses, adding to the momentum.
 
Seeking Higher Yields
 In addition, he said, there is still a lot of capital coming into the market from bond funds and much of it is seeking the higher yields at the longer end of the market. And because the key trade in the market is a bet that the differential between the yields of longer- and shorter-term maturities will narrow, investors and traders are buying longer-term debt.
There was also more talk yesterday that Brazil was buying 30-year bonds or would buy 30-year bonds as part of the debt deal it has made with its commercial banks. The country needs billions of bonds to strip into zero-coupon bonds, which will then be used to guarantee that the country will pay off the principal of the debt it owes.
At the shorter end of the market, yields are locked in a trading range because there is still a concern that the next move by the Federal Reserve will be to raise short-term interest rates to prevent a rise in inflation. This is why the yield on the two-year Treasury note, for example, which closed at 4.05 percent yesterday, is well above its 1993 low of 3.71 percent.
Following are the results of the Treasury auction yesterday of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.221	98.392	Discounted Rate	3.05%	3.18%	Coupon Yield	3.11%	3.28%	High Price	99.223	98.402	Discounted Rate	3.04%	3.16%	Coupon Yield	3.11%	3.26%	Low Price	99.221	98.392	Discounted Rate	3.05%	3.18%	Coupon Yield	3.11%	3.28%	Accepted at low price	27%	17%	Total applied for	$53,259,920	$56,053,518	Accepted	$12,382,991	$12,347,736	N.Y. applied for	$49,839,593	$52,647,814	N.Y. accepted	$11,005,944	$11,287,232	Noncompetitive	$1,415,098	$1,089,777	
 
Both these issues are dated Aug. 12, 1993. The three-month bills will mature on Nov. 11, 1993, and the six- month bills will mature on Feb. 10, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since April. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES; INTEREST RATES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CHEMICALS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INFLATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX INCREASES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



271 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Takes His Plan to the People

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va., Aug. 9

 BODY:
President Clinton opened a drive today to convince the American public of what he narrowly managed to convince Congress last week: that his $496 billion package of spending cuts and tax increases was worthy of its support.
The White House billed the President's trip here as a victory lap to celebrate Congressional approval of his five-year economic plan. But his campaign-style rally this afternoon also reflected the view of Mr. Clinton and his aides that even though the plan had passed, it remained to be sold. 
 The President, who had to battle solid Republican opposition to the package, appealed for an end to "partisan rancor" when Congress turns its attention this fall to a free-trade agreement and his proposals to overhaul health care and welfare.
But he made a barbed reference to the repeated trips that Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, has begun to make even now to New Hampshire, where the first Presidential primary of 1996 will be held.
 
Bipartisanship Is Urged
 "We cannot have every great issue of the day decided on the basis of partisanship, scheduled around the next trip to New Hampshire," Mr. Clinton said. "We have got to do some of these things together."
Speaking from the steps of the gold-domed State Capitol, Mr. Clinton complained of a "withering fog of misinformation" from Republicans that he said had cast the budget package in a false light. He called attention to the legislation's $255 billion in spending cuts, issued an impassioned defense of its new programs and insisted that the burden of its $241 billion in tax increases would fall mostly on the very wealthy.
"Now we can truly say change has come to America," Mr. Clinton proclaimed to a crowd of several thousand people. But the President, who wryly thanked Vice President Al Gore last week for his help in winning a one-vote "landslide" for the package in the Senate, was also aware of polls showing that public support for the plan remained no more than tepid.
 
Selecting a State
 After praising Democratic legislators for their courage in voting for the package, Mr. Clinton told the crowd that "none of us was sent to Washington to keep our jobs; we were sent to Washington to help you keep your jobs."
In selecting West Virginia for the rally, Mr. Clinton chose a state whose demographics make its voters particularly likely to view his plan with favor. The unemployment rate here is 12.9 percent, the highest in the nation, and the President has promised that his budget package will create millions of jobs. Further, relatively few West Virginia families earn more than $140,000 a year in taxable income, the threshold for the plan's new income tax rate of 36 percent.
Only 4,442 West Virginia families will pay higher income taxes under the package, said Sylvia Matthews, a White House aide, while about 105,000 will become eligible for increased tax credits, the part of the package intended to lift working families from poverty.
That is a wider ratio than applies elsewhere in the country. But even so, Mr. Clinton and his aides emphasized at every turn today that nearly 99 percent of all Americans would escape any income tax increase.
Everything about the President's appearance here -- from the music that greeted Mr. Clinton as he arrived at the Capitol to the signs held aloft in the crowd -- was staged to portray the passage of the defict-reduction plan as a historic beginning.
"Change Has Come," read the placards, which had been distributed by Clinton aides, while audio speakers beneath the Capitol's flag-draped columns blared "New Sensation," a song by the band INXS, a heavy metal group whose name, pronounced "in excess," might seem a strange association for a President who might be subjected to accusations of overspending.
The visit here opened a brief season of extensive travel for the President, who in the next 10 days is to make stops in the Midwest, Colorado, California, Arkansas and Oklahoma.
The itinerary was to have been followed by a weeklong vacation beginning late next week in Jackson Hole, Wyo., at a ranch owned by Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger C. Altman.
But White House officials said today that a review of the ranch had found problems and that Mr. Clinton and his wife, Hillary, were seeking an alternative location.
Among them, the officials said, is that the property is too far from the golf courses, restaurants and shops that the Clintons regard as necessary diversions. The officials also said there had been concern that the President's allergies would be aggravated in the hay-making season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLESTON (W VA); UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); APPROVALS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INCOME TAX (61%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



272 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The Clinton Administration's low-key support for the North American Free Trade Agreement has angered the pact's backers, who contend that the White House has botched the lobbying effort and made passing the accord much more difficult. [Page A1.]
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany cast doubt on the European Community's timetable for creating a single currency by 1999, saying the process might be delayed a year or two. [D2.]
 
The Economy
The nation's top pension regulator says she will be asking fund managers to consider how their investments can contribute to "the long-run health of the economy." [D1.] 
 The Clinton Administration said it would more than double grazing fees for Federal land. The White House had earlier dropped the plan when it threatened budget negotiations. [A1.]
President Clinton began a drive to persuade Americans of what he narrowly managed to convince lawmakers: that his package of spending cuts and tax increases was worthy of support. [A16.]
The Internal Revenue Service has identified 50 New York lawyers as possible delinquent taxpayers. This is an expansion of the agency's crackdown on professionals. [D5.]
 
Companies
When Kellogg raised cereal prices a third time this year, it was just business as usual in an industry in which, studies show, prices have risen almost twice as fast as food prices overall. [D1.]
Unisys eliminated its president's position as part of a reorganization, the latest large corporation to shed the office. [D1.]
A Federal agency denied a request by 12 U.S. steelmakers to review its ruling overturning some tariffs on imported steel. [D2.]
Lawyers for American, Continental and Northwest airlines gave closing arguments in an air-fare antitrust trial. [D3.]
Eastman Kodak officials say they have no plans to sell Sterling Winthrop, but analysts predict Elf Sanofi will buy it. [D3.]
Charter Medical said it would sell 10 medical-surgical hospitals to Quorum Health Group for $340 million. [D3.]
Subaru of America eliminated 17.5 percent of its work force, or 144 of 823 workers. [D4.]
Motorola has reportedly contracted to use Microsoft's Windows NT software with its Power PC microprocessors. [D4.]
Columbia Pictures appointed Lisa Henson president of worldwide production for the studio. [D5.]
An F.D.A. advisory panel recommended approval of Genentech's genetically engineered treatment for cystic fibrosis. [C5.]
 
Markets
The yield on the 30-year bond broke through the 6.50 percent level, falling to 6.46 percent, as the bond market rallied across the board. Traders and analysts said the rally was not necessarily a response to Congressional approval of the budget. [D1.]
Riding the crest of the surge in Treasury bond prices, both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index set new closing highs. Other indexes also rose. [D6.]
The dollar edged higher as weaker currencies continued to slip after the shake-up in the European Monetary System. [D16.]
Energy prices bounced back from three-year lows. Gold and silver prices also rebounded. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Investors in the initial public offering of Robert Mondavi, the California premium winery, are not popping champagne corks these days. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D6.]
British advertising executives have traditionally mocked their American counterparts as hard-selling hucksters. Some traditions are hard to break. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (53%); SANF (BIT) (53%); SAN (PAR) (53%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (52%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); SANOFI SA (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); QUORUM HEALTH GROUP INC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); BOND MARKETS (84%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%); AIRLINES (68%); AIR FARES (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); FOOD PRICES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); HOSPITALS (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (62%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



273 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: After Senate Loss, Abrams Tries to Stay in the Arena

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 9

 BODY:
By his own admission, Attorney General Robert Abrams lost last year's campaign for United States Senate because he committed the unpardonable political sin of letting his opponent, Alfonse M. D'Amato, define him.
As the four-term Democrat now prepares to run for re-election in 1994, he is trying hard -- perhaps a bit too hard -- to make sure that he defines himself. 
 Ask Mr. Abrams's press secretary to send a few newspaper clippings about the Attorney General's recent activities, and he faxes 41 pages, including an item from a Binghamton school district newsletter showing Mr. Abrams reading to a kindergarten class.
Ask Mr. Abrams if he has bounced back from his loss and you are likely to hear a discourse on every lawsuit filed, investigation opened and news conference held since January.
 
Busy, Busy, Busy
 There was the meeting with Henry G. Cisneros, the Housing and Urban Development Secretary, to talk about mortgage escrow practices, the settlement breaking the cable television industry's monopoly over its own programming, the legislation to increase penalties for carrying guns on school grounds. As he ticks off his accomplishments, referring frequently to notes scribbled on a legal pad, Mr. Abrams claps his hands for emphasis like firecrackers.
This is Bob Abrams as he likes to think of himself, the crusading people's lawyer, not the tax-and-spending, mud-tossing, political bumbler depicted by Mr. D'Amato last fall.
"People in the last six months have seen the real Bob Abrams again," he said in an interview last week, "the fighting Attorney General, the guy who's right out there, taking on the special interests, taking on the establishment, protecting us. Gee, that's the guy who got the biggest vote in the history of the office of Attorney General in New York State. That's the guy who was the first Democrat elected Attorney General in 40 years. That's the guy who won upstate and downstate, with Republicans and Democrats."
Mr. Abrams seems moved by his own self-description, almost as if he needed to convince himself. He knows, after all, that if he had persuaded 40,398 New Yorkers, out of 6.5 million who voted, to support him instead of Mr. D'Amato, he would have been making history last week by voting on -- and presumably for -- the President's economic plan. Instead, he lost by 1.2 percentage points and is now facing re-election with new vulnerabilities.
 
A Clinton, Not a Ford
 Until last November, Mr. Abrams had lost only one of 12 races -- his first campaign for Attorney General in 1974 -- in his 26-year political career. Now both Republican and Democratic rivals know he can be defeated.
Mr. Abrams contends that he emerged from his defeat with broader name recognition and a new strength of character. He is quick to search history for politicians who suffered humbling losses only to rise later to greater glory. He does not restrict the list to New York figures like his predecessor, Louis J. Lefkowitz, and former State Comptroller Arthur Levitt. He also finds reassurance in the biographies of Bill Clinton, Michael S. Dukakis and Richard M. Nixon.
"I'm not the first guy in politics to lose a race and to come back to the electorate again," he said. "The lessons are out there.
"I'll be ready for any and all comers," Mr. Abrams said. "If anybody thinks that this last loss by a hair means that I'm going to be a pushover, they've got another guess coming. I mean, I'm resilient."
 
Lingering Hostility
 And yet, there is lingering resentment from Democrats who feel that Mr. Abrams lost a race he should have won, squandering the chance to unseat Mr. D'Amato in a year when Mr. Clinton easily carried New York. And it may take a while for women and Italian-Americans to forgive what they see as Mr. Abrams's complicity in defeating Geraldine A. Ferraro in last year's primary. Mr. Abrams joined another candidate, New York City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman, in repeatedly attacking Ms. Ferraro's ethics and family finances.
"There is a bitterness that is left by the Senate race that he will have to overcome with both women and strong Democrats," said Deborah Sale, the chief of staff to Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine.
William Cunningham, a Democratic political consultant, said that Mr. Abrams's "Teflon has been scratched and dented."
"One of his claims to fame when he started to run for Senate was that he had never lost, that he couldn't be beaten," said Mr. Cunningham, who works for the Brooklyn District Attorney, Charles J. Hynes, a potential Abrams challenger next year. "That's all gone now. It's a psychic hurt and it's also a marketing problem."
 
A Loser's Bounty
 The state Republican chairman, William D. Powers, said he is actively seeking candidates for Attorney General, although he is not ready to announce names. "His vulnerability is still there," Mr. Powers said. "It shows in our polls."
There is also talk of a Democratic primary. Mr. Hynes has not ruled out a race, said Mr. Cunningham. Neither has the Rockland County district attorney, Kenneth Gribetz. Both men are running for re-election this year.
Mr. Abrams said he has "every expectation of making a run for re-election." He has nearly $300,000 left from his Senate race, a sore point for many Democrats who feel the money, if spent, might have bought victory. He spent an unusual amount of time, 30 days this year, in upstate New York, where he ran poorly against Mr. D'Amato. He has two more trips scheduled this month, taking his wife and two daughters on vacations that include visits to newspaper editorial boards and civic clubs.
He recently mailed 10,000 campaign newsletters to supporters. Almost a parody of New York politics, the cover page features three pictures -- one of Mr. Abrams receiving the Thurgood Marshall Award from black civic leaders in Albany, one of him marching in the Puerto Rican Day Parade, and one of him dining with the chief rabbi of Russia.
 
Albany's Ruth Messinger?
 The Attorney General's vaunted public relations machine is humming again. When Mr. Abrams decided to make an issue of the cancer risks that may be posed by high-voltage power lines found near schools, he sent not one, not two, but three news releases -- one asking utilities to conduct a survey of electromagnetic fields near schools, one announcing that the utilities would comply, and one disclosing his finding that 115 schools are within 100 feet of the lines.
When an appellate court was deciding in February whether to order the continued confinement of Larry Hogue, a mentally ill man whose menacing behavior had created fear on Manhattan's Upper West Side, Mr. Abrams showed up for the hearing. Not to testify, he said, but simply to let reporters know that he felt Mr. Hogue should remain hospitalized.
And after the issuance of the Governor's report on the Crown Heights disturbance, Mr. Abrams flew to Washington to join his old nemesis, Mr. D'Amato, and other Republican officials in calling for a Justice Department investigation into the death of Yankel Rosenbaum, a rabbinical student killed during the violence.
"I just felt I should be there and it gave me and Al a chance to shake hands," he said, before breaking into a respectable D'Amato imitation.
 
Rumors of a New Career
 After Mr. Abrams lost last November, there were rumors that he would leave New York to join the Clinton Administration. Some talk had him going to the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Federal Trade Commission. Mr. Abrams said that he was "flattered at some of the outreach," but he declined to say whether a job was ever offered.
Some Abrams friends said he desperately wanted a Washington job as a way to save face. Others said he decided quickly that he wanted to continue serving as Attorney General in New York, waiting for another chance to run for either Senator or Governor.
Whether that chance will ever come is unclear. But many Democrats believe it will be difficult now for Mr. Abrams to move beyond his current position.
"You never say that someone is finished in politics," said Ms. Sale. "But I don't see what comes next for him and that must be very frustrating because he's devoted his entire life to it."
Mr. Abrams said it is too early to speculate. "I'll be out there working hard, strengthening the record," he said. "And I'll be prepared for anything that comes down the pike in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "If anybody thinks that this last loss by a hair means that I'm going to be a pushover, they've got another guess coming," said Attorney General Robert Abrams, who is preparing his campaign for re-election. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ATTORNEYS GENERAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (53%); CITIES (53%); CABLE INDUSTRY (52%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (52%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); SACK, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



274 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Investment With Principle

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If one measure of influence in this power-hungry city is the number of people someone represents, Olena Berg, while hardly a household name, could well lay claim to being among the mightiest.
As the nation's top pension regulator, Ms. Berg, who took office last month, has a constituency numbering around 50 million. Her economic reach is even greater: she is the watchdog for $2.3 trillion in pension investments, nearly 40 percent of the nation's total financial assets. 
 How that money is invested, who manages it and who benefits from it are fundamental to the well-being of millions of American workers and have long-term consequences for the economy and for Corporate America. And Ms. Berg comes with strong notions: as the former Chief Deputy Treasurer of California, Ms. Berg was a trustee of that state's big pension funds, which broke the ground on shareholder activism and on investing in economically targeted projects to help the economy.
 
'Change Their Thinking'
 "We will be asking pension plans to change their thinking," said Ms. Berg, a 43-year-old Harvard M.B.A. who was a real estate executive before joining the California Treasurer's office in 1991. "Instead of thinking only about beating the market by another increment, we want them to think about how their investments are contributing to the long-run health of the economy."
In taking her new job, which has the official title of Assistant Secretary of Labor for Pension and Welfare Benefits, Ms. Berg is charged with regulating the pension industry and bringing legal action in cases of fraud. This is a position held in the mid-1980's by Robert A. G. Monks, whose speeches and regulations helped set in motion the shareholder-rights movement that has shaken up Corporate America with a new level of investor scrutiny. For his part, Mr. Monks said he was excited about Ms. Berg's appointment, especially because the post had been considered dormant in the Bush Administration.
With the shareholder rights movement well entrenched in American business -- and now rapidly expanding overseas -- Ms. Berg said her first order of business would be to focus on the controversial economically targeted investments: the use of pension dollars in nontraditional ways. The idea is that a nation strapped for jobs and with a shaky economy cannot afford to have nearly 40 percent of its free capital in passive stock and bond investments.
"This is the biggest lump of money in the world," Mr. Monks said. "How can you take 40 percent of the money out of the economy and hold it safe? Olena understands the need for prudent investing. But she also understands that these funds must be involved in the economy as a whole because they are so big."
Ms. Berg will encourage the pensions under her jurisdiction, which are corporate and union plans, to make investments that will create new jobs, businesses and housing while still earning a rate of return to protect the future retirees. Those investments might be in start-up companies, housing for the inner city or private companies.
This is in line with the goals of her boss, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, who sees the creation of new jobs and the improvement of existing ones as critical to a better economic future.
"Given the size of funds, it doesn't make sense to try to beat the market for a quarter," Ms. Berg said in an office decorated with personal photographs and Government-issue furniture. "When you are the market, as the funds are, you can't beat it. The goal should be an overall lifting of the economic boats by investing in ways that are economically productive and create more and better jobs. This is our mission, and it fits in with the Reich view of the world."
Anticipating critics, Ms. Berg added: "I can also tell you what economically targeted investments are not. They are not investments with a substandard rate of return."
Economically targeted investments have a mixed track record. There have been some notable failures: the multimillion-dollar losses in Kansas and Alaska from ill-fated mortgage investments; in Connecticut, the $25 million loss when the state pension fund tried to save Colt Industries, the firearms maker. But there have also been successes, largely in California, where the state pension plans have successfully invested in federally guaranteed inner-city mortgages, commercial real estate and private equity placements in growth businesses.
Ms. Berg said she plans to start a clearinghouse to provide information on successful targeted investments and to use her office as a bully pulpit to spread the word rather than to impose regulation. "The best system is for every pension fund to make decisions based on its own needs, its spectrum of investments and the interests of its beneficiaries," said Ms. Berg, who says she has gotten support from pension funds once the concept is understood.
Gordon Binns, chief executive of General Motors Investment Management, which invests $36 billion on behalf of G.M. workers, said he would not "reject any investment out of hand if it offers an appropriate return for the risk." Added Mr. Binns, who was himself briefly considered for Ms. Berg's job, "The economically targeted investment label doesn't scare me off, as long as it's not mandatory."
Ms. Berg's office does not regulate the public pension funds that have been in the forefront of shareholder activism. But those public funds, which represent municipal workers and teachers and are overseen by the states, closely follow the actions of her office and their leaders are delighted. "We like her," said Ralph Whitworth, head of the United Shareholders Association, an advocacy group. "She has a good understanding of corporate governance and has the background and tools to push an agenda."
One example of the influence of Ms. Berg's office on funds, public and private, was the so-called "Avon letter," a 1988 opinion stipulating that corporate proxies are a pension plan asset and must be taken seriously and voted. This opinion was considered a milestone in the shareholder rights movement because it forced pension plans not to vote automatically with management.
"We're looking for another Avon letter," said Nell Minnow, a partner in the Lens Fund, which was formed by Mr. Monks and which invests based on shareholder-rights principles. "Academic studies show that active investing can bring superior investment results, and it may be that some of a pension fund's assets will have to be diversified into a shareholder-activism component."
Just as Ms. Berg took office, the Campbell Soup Company made a ground-breaking announcement and said it would vote all its pension fund proxies according to shareholder activism principles -- the first corporate pension fund to join forces with the activists.
 
A 'Cautious Activist'
 Ms. Berg, a self-described "Army brat" who did not come to the United States until the age of 12, was graduated from the California State University at Chico. She worked in state government in finance, housing and community development before leaving to attend the Harvard Business School in 1982. Upon returning to California two years later, she became the president of a San Francisco real estate company and then moved to Los Angeles to become an executive at a real estate company specializing in troubled properties.
"After six years in the private sector, which I enjoyed, I found I missed the scope of public sector jobs," said Ms. Berg, who became the chief deputy to Kathleen Brown, the Treasurer of California, in 1991.
As Ms. Brown's representative on the California Public Employees Retirement System and the California State Teachers' Retirement System, Ms. Berg earned the reputation as "a very quick study" and a "cautious activist," said Richard Koppes, general counsel to the public employees' fund. "Pension funds have nothing to fear, but they will be challenged -- and should be, given the amount of money they have." The California funds, in fact, lobbied the Administration to appoint Ms. Berg.
In Washington, since her confirmation on July 24, Ms. Berg has been filling in what she does not know: How Washington works, the intricacies of the laws she oversees, making contacts with Treasury and Securities and Exchange Commission officials. She says she will continue the department's strong record of enforcements.
"You can't run over this woman," said Sarah Teslik, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors. "She's a hard person in the right ways." Ms. Teslik said that Ms. Berg, by training and temperament, is a "very loyal deputy who understands the big picture stuff and won't talk out of school." Already, Ms. Teslik said, Ms. Berg has been careful to smooth the feathers of pension funds that have been alarmed by some of the bolder proposals of Labor Secretary Reich. "She's terrific eyes and ears for Reich, and she knows how to mend fences, when that's needed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We will be asking pension plans to change their thinking," said Olena Berg, the Federal official who monitors about $2.3 trillion in pension investments. "We want them to think about how their investments are contributing to the long-run health of the economy." She was at the Labor Department. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Pension Assets's Ascent" tracks annual private pension fund assets in corporate and union plans since 1975. (Source: Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (52%); PENSION & WELFARE BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) PENSION & WELFARE BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PENSION FUNDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BONDS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: BERG, OLENA (ASST SEC); WAYNE, LESLIE CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



275 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cutters Discover Easy Target in Medicare

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
As one of the largest and fastest-growing Federal programs and one bearing the dreaded "entitlement" label at that, Medicare, which covers health care for the elderly, presented budget cutters with a plump target. And not surprisingly it took the biggest single hit, apart from the military, as Congress and the President wrapped up the new five-year economic plan last week.
Money for Medicare from 1994 through 1998 was trimmed by $56 billion, a 6 percent cut from the previously projected total of $971 billion. Another $8 billion was pared from Medicaid, the health care program for the poor, a 1 percent cut from $592 billion. 
 More surprising was the relative political ease with which the medical cuts, more accurately reductions in growth, were achieved. While legislators haggled over the numbers, they took it for granted that payments to hospitals and doctors in years ahead could be reduced by tens of billions of dollars without endangering patients or inflicting great hardship on anyone, at least in the short term.
 
Hidden Tax Is Seen
 When hospitals and doctors are pinched by Medicare, past experience has shown, they often make up some of the loss by raising rates for privately insured patients, a practice known as cost shifting. Thus, what is presented in Washington as a politically appealing spending cut is really an indirect tax on the country's insurance-buying companies and workers. It is a stealthy tax that legislators know they can get away with.
Last week's cuts were far from the reining in of medical entitlements that budget experts say must happen if the Federal deficit is ever to be tamed. But there is also a widely shared sense that this sponge has just about been squeezed dry -- that Medicare may have been cut as far as it safely can in the absence of major new constraints on the health care system as a whole. And that topic is expected to consume Congress in the coming year.
While advocates for doctors, hospitals and the elderly winced and groused at the cuts, their cries were muted.
"Medicare was the piggy bank they went to to achieve the magic formula," complained John Rother, chief lobbyist for the American Association of Retired Persons, referring to the President's political imperative of matching tax increases with spending cuts.
 
Tougher Struggle to Come
 But the affected interest groups seemed intent on keeping their powder dry for the more momentous brawl to come, after President Clinton announces his proposals for sweeping overhaul of the health system.
The largest single cut is in Medicare payments to hospitals, which will be about $22 billion below the projected $487 billion. Hospitals say Medicare already pays them less than 90 percent of their average patient costs. But most of the country's hospitals are doing well financially, and troubled public hospitals will still receive extra money.
"The cuts are significant, but they are not likely to lead to any serious reduction in services to Medicare recipients," said Stuart Altman, an economist at Brandeis University who heads a commission that advises Congress on Medicare payments to hospitals.
Medicare payments to doctors, previously projected at $228 billion, will decline by $9 billion. Promoting a national goal, doctors providing primary care, who are relatively underpaid, are exempted from the cut.
 
A.M.A. Avoids Fight
 Dr. James S. Todd, chief executive of the American Medical Association, said that while his group had registered its unhappiness with the budget bill, "we did not mount a huge campaign," in part because the organization feared that a defeat would result in more drastic measures.
But he added that further cuts in Medicare could cause real hardship, even jeopardizing patients' access to treatment. Many members of Congress who have happily slashed at the program up to now agree with that.
Mr. Rother of the retired persons' association said that the looming health care debate had changed the political equation. If the new cuts stand alone, creating an ever-wider gap between what doctors get for treating the elderly and what they get from privately insured patients, there will be "real damage," he said. But he said he hoped that national reforms would help even things out by also constraining the private sector.
The only direct cost to individuals in the medical cuts involves a small increase in the monthly premiums that Medicare recipients pay to the Government, intended to keep them at 25 percent of the cost of doctor care. Individuals will pay $56 a month in 1997, $7.40 more than expected, and the Government will collect $8 billion more than projected over five years.
 
Cuts in Medicaid
 In contrast with Medicare, the cuts in Medicaid do not involve reduced fees for doctors or hospitals, in part because states, which share Medicaid costs, generally set the fees and in part because the fees are already low.
The largest savings came easily. A 1990 law intended to give states the option of expanding personal care for the disabled had been accidentally written in a way that would require all states to start new programs. By making this optional, as originally intended, Congress shaved $4 billion from projected expenditures.
Other savings involve closing of loopholes that allowed states to gain more Federal matching money than Congress had intended, and tightening restrictions on the transfer of assets by middle-class elderly people who say they are poor and ask Medicaid to pay their nursing home bills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (73%); MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICAID MEDICARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); ELDER HEALTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); AGING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES TAX (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



276 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Wake Up to Increases in Cereal Prices

BYLINE: By VERONICA BYRD

 BODY:
Rosalind Fidelman, a retired bookkeeper in East Northport, L.I., calls cereal prices "disgraceful," bristling at the ever-higher prices she sees posted on grocery store shelves. The latest advance came last week, when the Kellogg Company, the market leader, wrote retailers that it was raising prices 2.1 percent, the company's third increase of the year.
And Mrs. Fidelman is not alone. Robert Abrams, the New York State Attorney General, sued in February to block Kraft's $450 million acquisition of RJR Nabisco's cold cereals. "These soaring price increases, far out of line with other food products, are a clear result of an overconcentrated industry," he said. 
 But in June, Judge Kimba M. Wood of Federal District Court in Manhattan denied Mr. Abrams's request to block the merger. The Attorney General has filed an appeal, which is pending. "The last thing this industry needs is less competition," Mr. Abrams said.
 
 
Five Big Players
 Last year, the top six companies -- Kellogg, General Mills, Kraft General Foods, the Quaker Oats Company, the Ralston Purina Company and RJR Nabisco -- had 90 percent of the industry's $7 billion in sales. With the Kraft-RJR Nabisco deal, there are now five big players. The Federal Trade Commission, which had no objection to the merger, voted 3 to 1 in 1982 to dismiss a 10-year-old antitrust case against three industry leaders.
Cereal prices rose 71 percent from 1983 to 1991, almost double the 37 percent increase in overall food prices, according to the Food Marketing Policy Center at the University of Connecticut at Storrs. Ronald W. Cotterill, an agricultural economist at the center, said that with prices averaging $3 a box, and in some cases topping $5, an average family could easily spend $15 to $20 a week.
Mrs. Fidelman, who lives with her daughter and three grandchildren, buys three or four boxes a week. Because she is retired, she said, she has time to look through newspaper advertisements for cents-off coupons and to go to stores that advertise sales. She even mixes some cheaper cereal with her grandchildren's favorite sugar-coated brands to save money.
 
 
Drawing the Line on Prices
 Given such consumer resistance, some analysts now see signs that price increases may abate. General Mills, the second-largest maker with a 25 percent market share, said last week that it had "no immediate plans" to follow Kellogg, which has 37 percent of the market, and increase cereal prices.
In contrast, when Kellogg raised prices on most of its cereals an average of 3 percent earlier this year, General Mills followed with increases of 3.5 percent, and Quaker Oats lifted its prices on some items by as much as 7 percent while dropping prices on others by as much as 9 percent.
Richard E. Lovell, a spokesman for Kellogg, attributed the increases to "an increase in overall business costs," but he declined to be more specific.
The overall costs of manufacturing breakfast cereals have remained relatively unchanged, the United States Department of Labor says. The costs of five of the eight main ingredients -- wheat, milled rice, oats, barley, corn, wheat flour, refined sugar and dehydrated fruits -- declined in both 1990 and 1991, the department said. Natural gas, hourly wages and paperboard box prices edged up 2.2 percent in 1991, and electricity rates increased 8.2 percent.
 
 
Consumer Disadvantage Seen
 One factor helping cereal price increases is that "there aren't many substitutes for cold cereal," said John M. McMillin, a food analyst at Prudential Securities. "Compared to other food categories, the consumer is definitely at a disadvantage."
Unlike many brand products that have lost market share to low-priced generics, cereal still commands brand loyalty, analysts say, and when children want their favorite brand, most mothers will indulge them.
Cereal makers argue that even with price increases, given the number of servings in a box, cereal remains a good buy.
"Cereal is a very good buy," said R. Craig Shulstad, a spokesman at General Mills. "Where else are you going to get convenience, taste and nutrition for between 15 cents and 19 cents a serving?"
But some analysts say that the one-ounce serving size used in such calculations is unrealistic. A hungry fullback can demolish a box in a single sitting.
Mr. McMillin notes that consumer resistance has increased since some prices have topped $5 a box. Some consumers are even switching from cereals to breakfast foods like oatmeal, bagels and yogurt.
 
 
Sales Are Down
 And cereal makers are feeling the pinch. Kellogg, based in Battle Creek, Mich., reported last month that sales dropped 2.7 percent, to $1.54 billion from $1.58 billion.
Ralston-Purina, the smallest cereal maker, with a 5 percent market share, said its net earnings in the third-quarter of its fiscal year, which ended June 30, were $66.2 million, down from $68.4 million a year ago.
Noting the recent slippage in earnings, Ronald B. Morrow, an analyst at Smith Barney Shearson, said, "Volumes have been slowing down, and growth is becoming more difficult." Cereal makers are "having to reduce costs to remain competitive," he said.
Still, Mr. McMillin said, the profit margin in the industry is "extraordinarily high," and a consumer would "be crazy to buy cereal without a coupon." He estimates that about 45 percent of cereals are purchased with coupons. Marketing costs -- advertising, coupons, promotional and retail deals -- total 30 percent of sales, he said.
 
 
Estimate of Profit
 Dr. Cotterill of the University of Connecticut estimates that producing a box of cereal costs roughly 40 to 50 percent of its list price and that "the rest is advertising, promotion and profits." About 15 to 20 percent is profit, he said.
Mr. Shulstad of General Mills agreed that a profit margin of 15 to 20 percent was about average, but he said consumers had the advantage of discount coupons. "Cereal is the most heavily promoted in terms of coupons," he said.
But Dr. Cotterill said: "Prices have increased dramatically. And even though some people are able to avoid the higher price if they have a coupon, only about 40 percent of cereals are purchased with coupons."
According to data compiled by Information Resources Inc. and based on the 52-week period that ended on Dec. 27, the estimated average price for a box of cereal in 1992 rose 5.3 percent, to $3. After coupons, the price was $2.23, up 8 percent, from $2.06 in 1991.
As he shopped at a Safeway store, Merrill Briley, a 44-year-old city maintenance employee in Portland, Ore., said, "I started buying cereals I don't even like because I have the coupons for them."
 
 
Increased Use of Coupons
 Coupons and two-for-one deals are a benefit to consumers provided they "have the time to consistently clip coupons and shop at several different grocery stores to get the best price," Mr. McMillin said. Still, the increasingly competitive industry has become too dependent on marketing for growth, he said, and that is one reason cereal makers have increased prices.
The increase in coupons reflects "a more price-conscious consumer, private-label penetration and the fact that Kellogg and General Mills are going head to head in competition," Mr. McMillin said. For example, the new General Mills cereal, Wheaties Honey Gold, is very similar to Kellogg's Frosted Flakes.
The cost of a box of puffed flakes or baked oats can take the snap, crackle and pop out of any grocery budget.
At one grocery store in New York City, a 15-ounce box of Cheerios was priced at $4.59. A 20-ounce box of Kellogg's Low Fat Granola was priced at $5.39. In Washington, a 20-ounce box of Raisin Bran was rung up at $4.09. And across the country in Portland, Ore., a 17-ounce box of Nutri-Grain was priced at $3.53.
 
 
Uh-Oh, Cheerios
 Dollar sales of Cheerios -- which account for nearly 10 percent of the ready-to-eat market -- were down last year for the first time since 1989, at $325 million, according to Nielsen Marketing Research. Cheerios' share of the market slipped to 4.7 percent in 1992 from 5.1 percent in 1990.
Some of that slippage, analysts and industry experts said, shows up in a rise in sales of cheaper, private-label brands, which grew by 34 percent for the year that ended October 1991, according to Nielsen. Still, the private-label brands account for only about $350 million of the $7 billion total sales in the industry and control 5 percent of the market.
"To think private labels will grow to 20 or 30 percent of the industry and provide a viable alternative is just not going to happen," Dr. Cotterill said. Many of the private-label brands will eventually be pushed out of the market by the major cereal makers, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: There are signs that increases in cereal prices may have peaked in recent months. At an A.& P., a shopper considers the choices in cereal brands. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. D5)
 
Graphs: "An Expensive Food Group" tracks percentage increase in prices since 1983 for ready-to-eat cereals and all other foods. Also shown is the price per pound of ready-to-eat cereals for the top six companies during 1988 and October 1992 accompanied by figures reflecting the percent increase. (Source: Prudential Securities) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K (NYSE) (94%); GIS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (94%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (94%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (94%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (84%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (68%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (68%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOOD MARKETING POLICY CENTER; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); KELLOGG CO; GENERAL MILLS INC; KRAFT GENERAL FOODS INC; QUAKER OATS CO; RALSTON PURINA CO ; RJR NABISCO; UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT KELLOGG CO (94%); KRAFT NABISCO (84%); QUAKER OATS CO (82%); RALSTON-RALSTON PURINA GROUP (68%); NESTLE PURINA PETCARE CO (68%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD MARKETING POLICY CENTER; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); KELLOGG CO; GENERAL MILLS INC; KRAFT GENERAL FOODS INC; QUAKER OATS CO; RALSTON PURINA CO ; RJR NABISCO; UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CEREALS; PRICES; INDUSTRY PROFILES ; FORECASTS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR PRICE INCREASES (93%); FOOD INDUSTRY (93%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (85%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); FOOD MFG (75%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); APPEALS (68%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); RETAIL COUPONS (58%); 

PERSON: BYRD, VERONICA ; LOVELL, RICHARD E; COTTERILL, RONALD W

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



277 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Merchants Battle a Wave of Peddlers

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STONY BROOK, L.I., Aug. 9

 BODY:
Aaron Smitheimer thought he had seen it all until a peddler came into his Port Washington jewelry store and tried to sell his customers fake name-brand wristwatches.
"I pay taxes, I pay rent, I pay all the other expenses that go along with running a store, and here's this guy trying to sell watches to my customers," Mr. Smitheimer said. "Talk about chutzpah." 
 The peddler left when asked, but even after Mr. Smitheimer put a "No Soliciting" sign on the front door, it didn't stop the onslaught of entrepreneurs who carry their goods in fanny packs, knapsacks, suitcases and plastic shopping bags, and who seem to be spreading all over Long Island.
"The problem of soliciting has grown and grown," said Gary Hudes, a jeweler in Bellmore. "Sometimes they come in as often as three times in one day."
 
'Everything Under the Sun'
 Mr. Hudes said the peddlers hawk "everything under the sun" -- perfume, toys, lighters, jewelry, clothing, wallets, handbags, pots and pans.
"You name it," he said. "If they can't lug it around, they sell it out of the back of their cars."
What galls many merchants is that when the peddlers bother shoppers, store workers must stop serving other customers to intervene. "If you're busy, you don't have time to go after them. I think they count on that," Mr. Hudes said.
The peddlers also seem to count on the fact that they will rarely be confronted.
"If you ask to see their license, they say they don't need one or say that their company keeps it in the office," said Ralph Ekstrand, a pharmacist in Farmingdale. "And if I ask them if they pay New York State sales tax, they always say, 'Of course.' But they never give a receipt and never collect tax from their customers."
Mr. Ekstrand said he realizes that most of the peddlers are young people who are just trying to earn a living. But many merchants, faced with trying times, say the invasion threatens their livelihood.
"The issue of peddlers is the only thing our members want to talk about any more," said Roy Smitheimer, Aaron Smitheimer's son and the president of the Nassau Council of Chambers of Commerce, an umbrella organization of 40 community chambers of commerce, representing more than 6,000 merchants. "The peddlers represent a loss of tax revenue to the community and a loss of business to established businesses who are themselves suffering through the slow economy," he said.
While most towns require that peddlers be licensed, the regulations vary. To make enforcement easier, the Council of Chambers of Commerce has formulated a uniform peddlers code that it plans to ask each town and village to follow.
Among other things, the code would require applications for peddlers' licenses to include a sales-tax identification number, photo and fingerprint, which would then be submitted to the police for investigation. It also would increase the penalties for not having a license to as much as $500. Peddlers would also be required to get permission from the owner of a store or office before entering to sell their wares.
Chris Murray, the lawyer who drew up the code, said no one can prevent peddlers from doing business. But he said they have to abide by the laws, pay taxes and respect the rights of the store owners. "There's also a right for businesses to control what goes on in their property," he said.
 
Buying From Peddlers
 Suzanne Decker, a clerk in a Farmingdale pharmacy, admits that she has bought several items from peddlers. A toy puppy, in its original box, cost her about $12; the same item in a major store was priced at about $25 plus sales tax, she said. "You think about the loss of revenue to your area," she said, "but when you're living on a budget, you have to think about what's good for you.".
But the loss of revenue is not only through lost sales. In New York City, it is estimated that about $25 million in sales tax is lost annually to peddlers who pocket the tax.
"What you have is a little bit of tax evasion by a lot of people," the State Tax Commissioner, James W. Wetzler, said.
Until now, the department focused mostly on peddlers in Manhattan, but with the influx on Long Island, it is widening its scope.
Last year, the department proposed legislation that would require suppliers to file reports including the tax identification number and amount of sales to peddlers, who are considered independent contractors. Mr. Wetzler said this would at least provide a paper trail for the department to follow. The legislation did not pass, but it will be offered again this year.
One of the largest suppliers of goods to peddlers on Long Island is Impulse, a company with offices in Hicksville and Farmingdale. Impulse supplies a vast array of goods. A spokeswoman for the company, who would not be interviewed but provided a written statement, said that all the people who buy from them are independent contractors who are required to issue receipts.
She said that Impulse was unaware of proposed changes to peddling laws, but that the company would fight "any legislation which is over broad or has the effect of unfairly restraining direct salespeople from the marketplace."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The swarm of peddlers is so thick they are even going into established stores to hawk their wares. Ralph Ekstrand, a pharmacist in Farmingdale, L.I., has posted a notice behind his counter, "No Soliciting of Any Kind. Do Not Enter." But still they come. He offered his help to a customer. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE (LONG ISLAND, NY)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE (LONG ISLAND, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; VENDORS, STREET; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); JEWELRY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SALES TAX (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



278 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Help Dow Surge 15.65 to New High

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks moved higher yesterday, riding the crest of a surge in Treasury bond prices. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index closed at new highs, and other indexes posted gains.
The Dow rose 15.65 points, to a new high of 3,576.08. The Dow's previous high was set on July 26, when it closed at 3,567.70. The Nasdaq composite managed a new high, rising 0.41 point to 718.49, surpassing the previous high of 718.08 set on Friday. 
 Trading was heavy yesterday. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 232.3 million shares, up from 221.2 million on Friday. The number of stocks posting gains outpaced losing issues, 1,210 to 804.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 2.04 points, to 450.72, and the Big Board composite gained 1.17 points, to 250.08. The American Stock Exchange composite increased 2.46 points, to 438.80.
 
 
Relief Over Budget's Passage
 Edward P. Nicoski, chief market strategist for Piper Jaffray Inc., said the market had an upward bias following the rally in bonds, as the yield on the 30-year bond fell to a 16-year low of 6.46 percent. Yields and prices move in opposite directions. He attributed the bond rally to investors' relief over the passage of the President's deficit-reduction plan.
More good news, Mr. Nicoski said, will come from the Government's quarterly borrowing, which begins today with the auction of a new three-year note. "It looks like the demand for the quarterly borrowing will be strong, making it a done deal and a healthy situation for the bond market," he said.
"What struck me is that investors have put the tax bill behind them and may refocus on the negatives like this spring, when select health care stocks were beaten down over uncertainty surrounding health care reform," Mr. Nicoski said.
Hugh A. Johnson, chief investment strategist of the First Albany Corporation, said: "The stock market was lifted on the interest-rate side of things. The decline in interest rates encourages investors to buy stock because there is not much alternative."
While passage of the budget plan did bolster stocks and bonds, traders said there was still some uncertainty ahead of the next round of reports on inflation.
 
 
Rally in Energy Stocks
 Energy stocks rallied yesterday. They were led by Chevron, which rose 1 7/8, to 86 3/8. Chevron has underperformed the market recently, so yesterday's gain could be called a technical bounce.
Technology stocks fizzled in the afternoon after showing strength earlier. Motorola fell 3/4, to 95 1/2. Microsoft and I.B.M. slipped 1/4 each, to 73 and 43 1/8, respectively.
Airlines and auto makers also combined to lift the market. General Motors rose 1, to 48 3/4, Chrysler gained 1 1/8, to 43, and Ford rose 5/8, to 52 1/4.
 In other market activity, Ace Limited, rose by 2 1/8, to 32 5/8. The Alex. Brown & Sons brokerage firm began its coverage of the stock with a strong recommendation to buy.
Charter Medical, which was up 1 1/2, to 21 1/2, said it had reached an agreement in principle to sell 10 hospitals to Quorum Health Group, a private company, for $335 million in cash and $5 million in a seven-year note.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (69%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%); MSI (NYSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (69%); GLEACHER & CO INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT GREGORY E JOHNSON (52%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



279 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues to Rise Amid Uncertainty in Europe

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar edged higher yesterday as weaker European currencies slipped in continued fallout from the loosening of the Continent's exchange-rate system.
Currency traders said the French franc, Italian lira and Spanish peseta dropped against the German mark as investors anticipated interest rate cuts in those countries. That, in turn, buoyed the dollar, which is used as an intermediary in many trades involving European currencies. 
 In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6970 German marks, up from 1.6955 marks on Friday. The British pound, meanwhile, fell to $1.4915, from $1.4990 on Friday.
The overhaul of Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism last week allows many currencies to trade in a wider range against the German mark. It also permits countries to lower interest rates, a move that can stimulate their economies but hurt the value of their currencies.
 
French Lower One Rate
 Yesterday, the Bank of France lowered its overnight funds rate from 10 percent to 9.75 percent. While the bank left more important rates unchanged, the move "points in the direction of French rates falling sooner rather than later," said Andrew Hodge, a vice president at Bank Brussels Lambert in New York.
Traders said the German mark also gained strength against other European currencies because it was reportedly being bought by European central banks that must repay loans from the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank. Central banks borrowed billions of marks in the weeks before the loosening of the European exchange rate system, as they tried to defend their currencies from speculative attacks.
The dollar also rose against the Japanese yen. In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted 104.91 yen, up from 104.35 Friday. Currency traders said the yen fell against the dollar because of concerns about the new Japanese Government.
"The markets are still skittish about how the coordination between a center-left Government and the Government ministries and the central bank is going to proceed," Mr. Hodge said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: ING BELGIUM SA/NV (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (96%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



280 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: A Free-Form Film Maker Who Spares All Expense

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Critics often praise a director's work as "personal." It's a pretty safe bet that the films and videos of George Kuchar are not quite what they have in mind when using the term.
For 30 years, working several economic rungs below low-budget, Mr. Kuchar has reached for the glamour of Hollywood and pulled it right down to street level, where ordinary mortals with weight problems and bad skin wage unequal battle with their tawdry surroundings. 
 Mr. Kuchar, the subject of a month-long retrospective that began on Friday at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, is right down there with them, a tortured romantic struggling with the cheap materials that life so stingily provides.
In "Hold Me While I'm Naked," an early classic, Mr. Kuchar (pronounced KOO-char) plays a film maker who coaxes his stars into making passionate love, then returns home to his shabby apartment in the Bronx, where he steps into the shower and slowly bangs his head against the wall. Like most of Mr. Kuchar's films, it makes do without such elements as plot, character or narrative coherence.
In "The Creeping Crimson," one of Mr. Kuchar's recent video diaries, he wanders the streets of the Bronx neighborhood where he grew up and comments on the local scene, holding his video camera at arm's length and training it on his face. Mr. Kuchar's nostrils emerge as major characters in their own right.
Mr. Kuchar, now 50, has made films in as short a time as 10 minutes, on a budget of $200 or so. He has shot greeting cards with doors on them as stand-ins for an interior. As a cost-cutting measure, he has shot with negative film, making his actors up in blackface and white lipstick.
"It turned out pretty interesting," he said in a recent interview in Manhattan, "although when people smiled, their teeth were black."
Mr. Kuchar produces, directs and edits his films. He does the sound and the lighting. He writes the scripts, quickly. "I work best under terrible pressure," he said. "Usually, I write as the actors are getting ready for the scene."
In a Kuchar film, there is no such thing as a second take. Or rather, the second take is simply added on to the first take and becomes part of the film. Anything goes, since the most characteristic Kuchar films embrace at least five genres simultaneously and consist of one climax after another.
"Gossamer Garbage: A George Kuchar Film and Video Retrospective," offers 64 works by Mr. Kuchar, beginning with short eight-millimeter films from the early and mid-60's, many of them made with his twin brother, Mike. Among them are "Tootsies in Autumn," "Lust for Ecstasy," "I Was a Teen-Age Rumpot" and "Corruption of the Damned," a film that, Mr. Kuchar once wrote, "bursts from its girdle of traditional Hollywood pyrotechnics and falls all over the place in a paroxysm of flabby sensuality, senselessness and insanity."
Mr. Kuchar's middle period sees a graduation to 16-millimeter and culminates in "The Devil's Cleavage," a 107-minute epic, and his last work on film, "Ascension of the Demonoids," financed by his one and only grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, a $20,000 bonanza that also paid for a video camera and thereby propelled Mr. Kuchar into a new creative phase.
In the last decade Mr. Kuchar has made video dramas with his students at the San Francisco Art Institute, where he has taught film and video since 1971, and a series of video diaries, which deal with various personal torments, his psychic development and his pet obsessions, especially weather.
Mr. Kuchar has made eight trips to El Reno, Okla., pointing his camera out the window of the same motel to record storms, clouds and the activity at a nearby trailer park.
Mr. Kuchar and weather go back a long way. After graduating from the School of Industrial Art in Manhattan (now called the School of Art and Design) with a major in illustration, Mr. Kuchar landed a job with NBC drawing the clouds on the weather maps used by Frank Field, the station's weatherman.
"He didn't know I had an interest in cloud anatomy, so he was delighted with the accuracy of the clouds on the map," said Mr. Kuchar, who became somewhat disillusioned with the job after it became clear to him that weather was not the focal point of the news program for everyone. "I realized that for most people it was sort of a throwaway event," he said, still seemingly a bit troubled by this.
 
Visiting a Famous Tree
 Somewhat more eventful is "Pilgrimage," a 1992 diary that chronicles Mr. Kuchar's journey to Watsonville, Calif., to visit a tree that became famous overnight when local citizens claimed to see the image of the Virgin Mary in its bark. "It's an uplifting film for the Christmas season," said Mr. Kuchar, who delivers most of his remarks deadpan. It's quite possible that he does think of the film as a holiday treat for the whole family.
"The Shame of Leila LaSeure," about a patient's affair with a psychotherapist, is another gift to the public. "With that one, I was thinking of making a picture that people could understand," said Mr. Kuchar, with the air of someone willing to try anything once.
Mr. Kuchar's admirers, who have included Andy Warhol and John Waters, are generally quite happy to be baffled. And Mr. Kuchar says it's fine with him if viewers leave the theater bemused, since confusion may inspire them to see his films a second time.
There may not be much time left, in fact. "With some of the films, there is only one print in existence, and the videos, who knows how long they'll last?" Mr. Kuchar said. "People say, well, in 10 years they'll turn to dust, but that's true of me, too. But I do hope the stuff will live on -- live on in shame."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Kuchar, who is the subject of a monthlong retrospective at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, was in the theater last week with an image from one of his films on the screen. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (83%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (83%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FESTIVALS VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM; KUCHAR, GEORGE; KUCHAR, GEORGE (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) EDDIE GEORGE (92%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



281 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Revenue-Sharing Ball Is in the Owners' Court

BYLINE: By Murray Chass

 BODY:
Major league club owners meet tomorrow in Kohler, Wis., a city noted for the manufacture of sinks and toilets and bathtubs. Will it be the city where baseball goes down the drain?
That would depend on one's point of view, of course. 
 If the owners, for example, fail to reach agreement on a plan to increase the amount of revenue they share, the players wouldn't have to be bothered by the owners then coming to them demanding a cap on their salaries, which they won't accept anyway.
If the owners fail to reach agreement on a plan to increase the amount of revenue they share, they would leave their side in a quandary as to how to proceed. They also would leave Richard Ravitch, their chief labor executive, in such a dilemma that he very likely would have to resign.
If the owners reach agreement on a plan to increase the amount of revenue they share, some of their own brethern might try to scuttle it by going to court. A rumor is circulating in baseball circles that George Steinbrenner has already drafted papers for a lawsuit he would file against his colleagues if they try to take money out of his deep pockets.
The owners will meet at the American Club, a resort a few miles west of Sheboygan, tomorrow, Thursday and, if needed, Friday. Ravitch had hoped they could meet undetected, preserving the secrecy that has shrouded the entire revenue sharing matter.
"There's an extraordinarily strict confidentiality agreement that governs revenue sharing," one club executive said. The agreement, the executive added, includes a provision for disciplinary action against anyone who violates it, specifying a fine and also saying that anyone breaching the agreement would be subject to sanctions provided in the Major League Agreement.
But the agreement is so strict the executive wouldn't say how much the fine would be, and some others who were asked wouldn't even acknowledge that the provision exists. But one person said the magic number was $100,000.
Ravitch, citing the confidentiality agreement, declined to discuss specifics of his revenue-sharing proposals.
After sending a series of plans to the owners for their study and discussion, then digesting their comments, Ravitch recently sent out a proposal that is designed to serve as the starting point for debate in Kohler. Exact details of the plan have remained secret, but one fearless soul offered what was said to be a general outline.
"It all depends on what salary cap is ultimately agreed to by the union," the informant said. "The higher the salary cap, the higher a percentage of local revenue will be needed; the lower the cap, the lower a percentage is needed."
Last year's player payroll was $783 million. Using a round number, if the payroll were $800 million and the central fund, which includes money from national television, cable and radio and licensing, could pay $300 million of that total, $500 million would be needed from local revenue.
If local revenue, which includes money from local television packages and gate receipts, totaled $1.5 billion, the percentage each team would pay from its local revenue would be derived from the ratio of $500 million to $1.5 billion. Each club would put one-third of its local revenue into the payroll pool, meaning the Yankees and the Mets, for example, would have to pay more than the Milwaukee Brewers and the Montreal Expos.
"That's sort of in the general ball park," a club executive said, "but there's more to it. It's a terribly complicated process we're going through. It's not something that can be explained in a paragraph or two."
In another glimpse of what clubs might expect economically, a few days before the Baltimore Orioles were auctioned in United States Bankruptcy Court, the prospective bidders were given information indicating the Orioles' share of the revenue-sharing pot would be $8.7 million.
Whatever plan finally is put on the table for adoption, it will need 21 of 28 votes to pass. If it passes, Ravitch next would make a proposal to the union calling for a salary cap. The players would reject it, then decide if they should strike next month to pre-empt the owners from imposing crippling rules changes next winter. (Some owners are said to be prepared to vote for a plan, knowing that the players would kill it by refusing a salary cap.)
If the owners vote down any plan, the prevailing view is that Ravitch would resign. He has spent more than a year trying to convince the owners they need to increase their revenue sharing to save the game, and if they were to repudiate him, he not only would have no proposal to take to the players, but he also would have no strength with which to deal with them.
According to a view on the labor side, Ravitch may try to convince the owners to adopt a plan by telling them if they don't, he would have to resign and that would play right into the union's hands.
Ravitch would not talk about his strategy or his future, saying only that he would like to see the owners approve a plan.
"I want to steer it to a conclusion, not a specific conclusion," he said. "It's not for me to tell the owners how much money they should commit. It's up to me to explain all the alternatives."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FINANCES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS REVENUES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LITIGATION (67%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY GEORGE STEINBRENNER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



282 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Science Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: PERIPHERALS;
When Memory And Frill Collide

BYLINE: By L. R. SHANNON

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH it is an old song, "Thanks for the Memory" is still the favorite theme of personal computer fans, particularly those who have resisted moving to Windows or who have made only a partial changeover. Two columns last month about QEMM 7.01, Quarterdeck's new version of an old standard among memory managers, brought in spirited responses from both readers and software publishers.
It was mentioned that QEMM and a screen saver, Razzle Dazzle, did not coexist. A company expert in the Quarterdeck Forum in Compuserve, who had earlier suggested changes to deal with this, noted later: "You will probably find that some screen savers will interfere with system functions that are more important. However, a lot of our users have After Dark, and that seems to work fine." This avoided answering the question of what system function could possibly be more important than a neat screen saver. Then Road Scholar, the publisher of Razzle Dazzle, sent word that an updated version of the screen saver would work with the new QEMM. Meanwhile, a reader, Dick Netzer, senior fellow and professor of economics and public administration at New York University, wrote of version 6.0: "QEMM fights fiercely with Pyro," a screen saver, "and occasionally fights with Sidekick." 
 Helix, the software company in Long Island City, Queens, that helped develop DOS 6.0's Memmaker utility, sent a copy of Netroom 3.02, another memory manager.
Netroom, a DOS program that takes Windows into account, offers three levels of installation: Conservative, for those who wear both suspenders and a belt; Aggressive, for those who wear one or the other, and Custom, for the shamelessly daring.
The Aggressive installation is simple, though slightly fussy, and requires few decisions. At one point in the process, the program warns that it will have to remove references to QEMM from the autoexec.bat and config.sys files, although it considerately saves copies of the old files in case you want to restore them. There are also six utility programs -- disk cache, screen saver, screen accelerator, RAM drive, virus protection and something called D.P.M.I. -- that may be loaded as options.
Despite its macho name, Aggressive is gentle. QEMM had left 649,400 bytes of conventional memory free. Netroom settled for 593,072. More to the point these days, both programs made more than three megabytes -- conventional and extended memory -- available to Windows. And although Netroom did not freeze the keyboard, as QEMM had done when Razzle Dazzle was present, Netroom would not run the screen saver, either. Another reader, Ted Dolmatch, of Briarcliff, N.Y., formerly "an old and loyal Quarterdeck customer," got 634,528 bytes from Netroom 3, "without one hang."
Netroom is $99 for a single-user license. If you want more information, phone Helix at (800) 451-0551 or (718) 392-3100.
 
Still More Memory
 Qualitas, a software company in Bethesda, Md., takes a different approach with its two memory managers, 386Max 7 and BlueMax 7, which are $99.95 and $124.95, respectively. 386Max is for machines with 80386, 80486 or Pentium C.P.U.'s, particularly those running DOS programs either inside or outside of Windows, while BlueMax is specifically for I.B.M.'s PS/2 line.
If you are running a DOS character-based -- not graphics -- application in a DOS window, 386Max can provide it with as much as 736 kilobytes of conventional memory. That marks version 7 of 386Max as a transitional program for people who are working in a mixed DOS-Windows environment. Other features include a far easier way to write Program Information Files (PIF's) to configure DOS programs for Windows, and support for DOS 6's Multiconfig, which allows one to decide which of several alternate configurations will be selected at startup. Information is available by calling (800) 676-0386.
Memory Commander 4.0, a $99.95 memory manager from V Communications of San Jose, Calif., says it can make up to 800 kilobytes of memory available for graphics programs on V.G.A. systems, 920 kilobytes for text programs. Although it is essentially a DOS program, it, too, takes Windows into account and can provide configuration benefits for it as well. If you want information, call (408) 296-4224. Although Memory Commander has been designed for relatively unsophisticated users, the V Communications catalog contains routines for programmers as well.
All this memory managing had left the autoexec.bat and config.sys files in the resident 386 in a mess. So I tried to return the files to the way they were just after DOS 6.0 had been installed. Eventually, after a long series of error messages indicating that the effort had not been completely successful, I reinstalled DOS from scratch. Even with a clean slate, there was not as much memory available as there had been. But the machine will soon be passed on, when the 486 hotrod arrives, and memory shortages in it will be another user's problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: SHANNON, L R

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



283 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Building A Living Monument

BYLINE: By MALCOLM MORAN

 BODY:
THE call-in shows in Boston have moved along to something else. So it goes. There is a rumor that professional football is arriving in New England. The Yankees are in Fenway tonight for the start of a series, and a race is giving Red Sox fans reason to renew their happy hatred. So it goes.
All those hours of grief-stricken calls on the radio, inspired by the sudden death of Celtic captain Reggie Lewis two weeks ago today, seem as long ago as the last Celtic championship. Those heartfelt messages are slipping into the past. 
 They shouldn't. They won't. They can't.
Last Monday, when 15,000 mourners stood in stifling heat to pay their respects at Northeastern University and hundreds more lined the funeral route, the people had not been moved by dazzling commercials, catchy slogans or a calculated glibness magnified by the news media.
As the economics and values of the sports industry spiral out of control, all those people chose to endure the heat because they had been moved on some personal level. These were not consumers. These were admirers. A woman talked of the way Lewis had carried himself. A soon-to-be Northeastern graduate remembered a star athlete who always attended their class.
Richard Lapchick, director of the university's center for the study of sport in society, compared the crowd's remarkable diversity to two other memorable events: Nelson Mandela's appearance in Boston, when black and white children clung to tree branches along the banks of the Charles, and the funeral of Arthur Ashe.
"What athletes have to see," Lapchick said yesterday, "is there may be better athletes in the N.B.A. than Reggie Lewis, although he was a great player, but it was what he did in the community that took it to another level of appreciation."
As inspiring as the lines on St. Botolph Street became before the service, the scene of all those men and women and children standing in the sun was not as powerful as what Lapchick later saw on the ride to Forest Hills Cemetery, where Lewis was buried. He was sitting on a bus, part of a Presidential-type motorcade that passed slowly through Roxbury and Franklin Park, where seemingly permanent demographic lines had been drawn.
"There were Latinos in black neighborhoods," Lapchick said. "There were blacks in Latino neighborhoods. There were whites in both. I'm sure a lot of the white people in Roxbury that day had not walked in Roxbury before, or certainly not in many years.
"I was sitting next to a woman, and I was sure she thought I was being a snob because I was ignoring her. But I was uncontrollably crying from the time we pulled out."
It was not until much later that Lapchick was able to introduce himself. "I said, 'I hope you didn't think I was ignoring you.' She said she didn't notice because she was crying, too."
If every dried tear that has been created by this death could be matched by the type of quiet effort that characterized Lewis's 27 years, his legacy would have a value that transcends records and points and victories.
Reggie Lewis's life was about movement, subtle and effective. Just as the tribute of the people became powerful through its individuality, a living monument could be built through small but meaningful acts.
The Celtics may soon consider establishing the equivalent of baseball's Roberto Clemente Award for service to the community, an honor that could be extended to professional, college and high school players. But some of the most important work would come in response to the offer extended last Monday by Keith Motley, Northeastern's dean of student services.
"You can join Reggie's team," Motley said then. "You can volunteer at least 35 hours next year, so a young kid can see you in their life. And after you volunteer that time for Reggie's team, write down a note and say, 'I did it for Reggie.' "
The words are more important today than they were a week ago. They will be more important a week from now than they are today. So it goes. A response can be as simple or as extravagant as the inspiration. Learn C.P.R. Give blood. Search for the time to become a big brother or big sister. Find a way to cross those lines. Extend yourself back toward an old school -- not necessarily financially, but with advice and support for another generation.
And if the way you felt when you heard the news about Reggie Lewis moves you to some small effort, if you should write to say you were inspired by the bearing of someone you never knew, here is a good place to send that thought:
Ms. Donna Harris-Lewis
c/o The Reggie Lewis Foundation
P.O. Box 35
Dedham, Mass., 02027.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reggie Lewis. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CELTICS NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON RED SOX (58%); BOSTON RED SOX (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (83%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON CELTICS (59%); BOSTON RED SOX (58%); BOSTON RED SOX (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASKETBALL (88%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); RACE & RACISM (69%); 

PERSON: MORAN, MALCOLM; LEWIS, REGGIE REGGIE LEWIS (72%); NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



284 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: 3d U.S. Aide Quits Over Bosnia

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9

 BODY:
Another State Department official has resigned in protest over the Clinton Administration's policy toward Bosnia and Herzegovina, officials have confirmed.
The resignation came from Jon Western, an analyst investigating reports of war crimes committed by Bosnian Serbs. Mr. Western said in a letter on Friday that he was quitting in disagreement with a policy that he said was not tough enough, officials said on Sunday. 
 His resignation, effective in two weeks, follows that last week by Marshall Freeman Harris, the chief specialist on Bosnia, and the resignation in August 1992 by George D. Kenney, who was the deputy chief of Yugoslav affairs.
A dozen State Department officials, including Mr. Harris but not Mr. Western, took their protest to Secretary of State Warren Christopher this year. Since then, several have sent memos to Mr. Christopher urging tougher action.
Mr. Western worked as an analyst in the Intelligence and Research Bureau, studying allegations of war crimes against the Serbs. He also dealt with Croatia and Slovenia, two other former Yugoslav republics.
Reached at his suburban Virginia home today, Mr. Western said he would not discuss his resignation until he leaves the Government payroll. He said he planned to pursue graduate studies at Columbia University.
"He quit to protest U.S. policy," a department official said of Mr. Western, insisting on anonymity.
United States policy on the Bosnian crisis has largely depended on economic penalties against the Bosnian Serbs' supporters in Belgrade, the capital of Serbia, although the Clinton Administration is trying to persuade its European allies to approve the use of force if the Serbian nationalists reject demands to end their siege of Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA WAR CRIMES (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); APPROVALS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); 

PERSON: WESTERN, JON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



285 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Iranian President Presenting a New Cabinet

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, Aug. 9

 BODY:
President Hashemi Rafsanjani presented his Cabinet for parliamentary approval on Sunday, showing flexibility only on ministries that mainly regulate domestic affairs.
The Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Finance and Oil were kept intact, in what political analysts have interpreted as an effort to continue the less militant diplomatic and free-market economic policies of President Rafsanjani, who was re-elected to a four-year term in June. 
 The Ministries of Health, Higher Education, Housing, Defense, Commerce and Interior will be headed by new appointees, all with a university education and years of executive experience, leaving only two clerics in the 23-member Cabinet, in the Ministries of Information and Justice.
Conservatives, backed by the traditional merchant class, command a majority in Parliament and favor strict social al Islamic orthodoxy in a free market economic system. The are staunchly opposed to normalizing relations with the United States.
The state-run English-language Teheran Times reported that Parliament would begin debate on the Cabinet on Tuesday, with "two weeks to complete discussions and vote."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RELIGION (68%); 

PERSON: RAFSANJANI, HASHEMI (PRES) HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



286 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Yes, There Is a Reason to Be in Somalia

BYLINE: By Madeleine K. Albright; Madeleine K. Albright is the United States permanent representative to the United Nations.

 BODY:
With the killing of four United States servicemen in Somalia on Sunday, more Americans may ask why we should care about the United Nations effort to restore that failed state.
President Clinton has said we have no choice but to protect our soldiers and make sure the mission succeeds. 
 Success is important not only for the Somalis -- 300,000 people died from war and famine before the United Nations approved intervention -- but also because anarchy may produce refugees, uncontrolled arms peddling and targets of opportunity for terrorists and their state sponsors. But peace cannot be made overnight. It will take time for people who have been shooting at each other to start trusting each other. Combatants must be disarmed, retrained and re-employed. Development aid must be delivered and efficiently used. Democratic institutions must be established. Those who disrupt the peace must be stopped.
Today, some criticize the U.N. mission in Somalia for supposedly departing from its humanitarian purpose by conducting military operations against the renegade warlord Mohammed Farah Aidid.
Legitimate concerns have been raised about the effect of these operations on relief efforts, about imperfect coordination among peacekeeping forces and about the possibility that Mr. Aidid will succeed in portraying himself as a victim rather than perpetrator of unwarranted violence.
By seeking to disarm Mr. Aidid, the U.N. is fulfilling its mandate in Somalia. The earlier, American-led intervention ordered by President George Bush was limited to humanitarian relief. But the currently applicable Security Council resolutions call explicitly for the disarming of Somali factions because humanitarian and political goals cannot be assured unless a secure environment is created.
The famine of 1991-92 did not result from the laws of nature but from the lawlessness of men like Mr. Aidid. Warlords used thugs who terrorized their fellow citizens, disrupting economic activity and forcing thousands from their homes. Mr. Aidid extorted money from relief workers trying to deliver food to starving children.
Unlike other Somali warlords, Mr. Aidid has obstructed U.N. efforts to end the violence and rebuild the country. He violated commitments made to the U.N. as soon he realized that he could not operate in a society governed by law. For him, piracy meant prosperity. His aim is to return Somalia to anarchy.
Mr. Aidid would like to drive the U.N. out by escalating the cost of staying. On June 5, his henchmen ambushed Pakistani peacekeepers, killing 24. Since then, his forces have killed four journalists, two Italian peacekeepers, at least six Somalis employed by the U.N. and now the four American soldiers.
The Security Council has responded by ordering the capture, detention and trial of Mr. Aidid. Failure to take action would have signaled to other clan leaders that the U.N. is not serious. Advocates of appeasement seem to forget that last year the U.N. tried to cooperate with Mr. Aidid and his counterparts. It did not succeed.
Yes, military operations can complicate and temporarily slow humanitarian efforts. But critics are wrong to suggest that relief and development work in Somalia has stopped. Except for some sections of Mogadishu, the distribution of goods continues. Children are no longer starving to death, thousands have been vaccinated and the flood of refugees has slowed to a trickle.
Work also continues on the political front. A dozen district councils have been established and two dozen more are on the way. Plans for re-establishing a national government are on track. Traditional Somali leaders and others with civilian leadership skills are starting to assert themselves.
It's no secret that U.N. command and control problems arose in Mogadishu during recent fighting, but those problems, primarily with the Italian forces, are being worked out. Such difficulties are symptomatic of the complexity of mounting international nation-building operations that include a military component. It is vital, however, that such problems be resolved in the future by policy makers in New York and not left to commanders in the field.
Normally, the U.N. is criticized for doing too little. In Somalia, it is being criticized for doing too much. Operations like the one under way in Somalia are sufficiently novel that problems and criticisms are inevitable.
The decision we must make is whether to pull up stakes and allow Somalia to fall back into the abyss or to stay the course and help lift the country and its people from the category of a failed state into that of an emerging democracy. For Somalia's sake, and ours, we must persevere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) IN-N-OUT BURGERS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOMALIA SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SOMALIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); FAMINE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STARVATION (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TERRORISM (73%); REFUGEES (73%); EXTORTION (50%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE (AMB) BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993



287 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
COMMANDOS MAY GO TO SOMALIA
The U.S. is considering using commandos in Somalia to search for Gen. Mohammed Farah Aidid, who is suspected of being behind the killing of 4 American soldiers and 24 Pakistanis. A1
 
News analysis: The U.N. mission is now military enforcement. A2
 
BOSNIAN SERBS HOLDING GROUND
Bosnian Serbs held their positions on two strategic mountains and were reported to be moving more weapons and troops toward territory under Government control. A3
 
Mediators in Geneva postponed peace talks on Bosnia. A3 

IN EUROPE, SEARCH FOR LEADERSHIP
Troubled by political scandal, recession and general anxieties, Western Europeans sense that their leaders lack the ability to guide the Continent through the turmoil as they approach a new century. A6
 
NIGERIA IS STIFLING DISSENT
The Government in Nigeria has detained dozens of opponents and restricted the press as protesters prepare general strikes against the annulment of elections in June. A5
 
JAPAN REJECTS TRADE TARGETS
Japan's new Prime Minister emphasized his eagerness to reduce Japan's trade surplus with the U.S., but he rejected most of President Clinton's proposals to do that. A7
 
AN OUTPOST FOR ISLAMIC MILITANTS
A Pakistani outpost that was once home to forces allied against Soviet troops is now a base for Islamic warriors suspected of playing a role in the bombing of the World Trade Center. A8
 
U.S. SPIED ON WARTIME ALLIES
The U.S. spied on its World War II allies, breaking their codes and intercepting their secret diplomatic communiques, declassified documents show. A9
 
Trichardtsdal Journal: Black South Africans see a "Berlin wall." A4
 
National A10-12
 
SOUNDS OF FURY AND DESPAIR
The White House lawyer whose death last month has been ruled a suicide said in a note that he was not meant for "the spotlight of public life" in a city where "ruining people is considered sport." A1
 
NAVY WINS A POINT
The Pentagon has recommended that the United States maintain a fleet of 12 aircraft carriers, officials said, a victory for the Navy. A1
 
SETBACK FOR SATURN
The Saturn Corporation, G.M.'s effort to compete against inexpensive Japanese imports, is voluntarily recalling 80 percent of all cars it has ever made because of an electrical problem that causes fires. A1
 
HOPE FOR VIOLENT YOUTHS
Although statistics show that violence is rising among American youths, a panel of psychologists offered an optimistic view of what might be done, saying, "Violence is preventable." A10
 
CURBING IMMIGRATION
Gov. Pete Wilson of California urged the Federal Government to deny citizenship to American-born children of illegal immigrants, prompting an outcry by civil libertarians. A10
 
BABY-SWAP TRIAL CLOSES
The two sides gave closing arguments in the case of a Florida teen-ager switched at birth. A10
 
PRICE OF A VOTE
The Representative who provided the decisive vote on the budget in the House returned to her heavily Republican district and was praised as a patriotic heroine by some, a traitor by others. A11
 
LOOKING TO NEW ISSUES
President Clinton signed the budget bill he had fought so hard for, and he and aides turned to new issues: trade and health care. A11
 
PROTECTING 'ARYAN BEAUTY'
A man accused of killing a plastic surgeon said he was angry about people "diluting the Aryan beauty" by dyeing their hair blond and wearing blue contact lenses. A11
 
Education Page A13
 
DROPOUTS AND PUSHUPS
The National Guard's Youth Corps Challenge program uses military personnel to tutor and discipline high school dropouts taking the test for a general equivalency diploma. It also signals President Clinton's priorities. A1
 
A Mississippi college says its chief pocketed $3 million in donations.
 
Campus Journal: Cinderella lives.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
LIMITING HOUSING FOR HOMELESS
New York City will soon refuse to shelter families just because they say they are homeless. Those who could continue to live with friends or family or who abandon their apartments because of crime, will be turned away, city officials said. A1
 
CUTS AT EMPIRE BLUE CROSS
The new head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans to cut costs by 10 percent, largely by reducing its staff through attrition, early retirement and layoffs, a company spokesman said. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Oils infused with taste lead the condiment craze. C1
Between speeches with Chief Judge Judith Smith Kaye. C1
SoHo, sidewalks, small cafes: Oh, so romantic. Oh, so illegal. C1
 
Health Page C11
 
Single sperm successfully used to fertilize human eggs.
Personal Health: Neglecting shots endangers children.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Exploring Duke Ellington, in a four-day conference. C13
Film: "Searching for Bobby Fischer." C13
Music: Les Arts Florissants at
Mostly Mozart. C13
Dance: Aboriginal dance from Taiwan. C13
Books: Religious fanaticism in the West. C17
Television: "The Famine Within." C18
 
Sports B6-11
 
Obituaries D20
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
Reform for the public lands.
Sex, Hollywood and August.
The McDade exception.
A brighter day for Legal Services.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Killing "just for whatever."
David Rieff: How Bosnia's saviors became its jailers.
Alice Vachss: All rape is "real" rape.
George B. Pyle: A man marries a man? Print it!
 
Bridge C18
 
Chronicle B4
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOMALIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); NIGERIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: SATURN CORP (81%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SOMALIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); NIGERIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); SCANDALS (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); SUICIDE (70%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); RELIGION (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (57%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



288 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: Military Regimen for Teen-Age Dropouts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NIANTIC, Conn., Aug. 6

 BODY:
It was 6:59 A.M. and Arthur Cole, 17 years old, was due in formation in front of his National Guard barracks at 0700 hours. The prospects were not good. Arthur couldn't find his regulation shoes (he was wearing sandals) and he couldn't find his Guard-issued pants (his bermudas were hanging so low his underwear was identifiable).
"Let's go!" barked his platoon leader, Vincent Lafontan, a former marine who was inspecting bunks. "Suck it up! Tighten up your racks!" 
 Arthur is a former drug dealer from New Haven, and he was not accustomed to his new hours. Until recently, he would go to sleep at 6 A.M.
In front of the barracks, at attention, stood 120 teen-agers from all over the state. They have one thing in common: all are high school dropouts who have signed up voluntarily for a new national program, financed by the Federal Government and run by state National Guard units on military bases, that is aimed at helping troubled civilian youths earn high school equivalency diplomas. If these dropouts succeed in the five-month program, they will get a $2,200 stipend from the Government as a reward.
 
Still a Few Rough Spots
 The young people have been told the program is of great importance to President Clinton, and on this, the official opening day for the first of 10 National Guard Youth Corps camps throughout America, they have been warned, "Look sharp: the President's men are coming to see us."
Of course, like any new marriage, this wedding of the military and these dropouts still have a few rough spots. "Oh man, we got to wear these hats?" said Arthur, finally reaching his platoon. He did 10 pushups for being late, then fell into formation.
Arthur is an orphan, and was eager to enroll here because he hopes to earn a degree and find a decent job so he can get his younger brother, Tai, out of foster care.
What is beginning in Connecticut may soon become widespread because its appeal cuts across the political spectrum while addressing two of the nation's most pressing domestic questions: What to do with the military in the post-cold-war era? And how to expand social service programs in a time of budget constraints?
The National Guard's Youth Corps Challenge program, which will operate in 10 states this year, is a case of guns as well as butter. It relies heavily on current and former military personnel to tutor, counsel and discipline the dropouts in preparation for their taking the test for a general equivalency diploma, or G.E.D. This will not be an easy task. The average reading level of the Connecticut group is the sixth grade; 74 percent did not complete their junior year of high school; nearly a third were expelled from school.
Among the program's supporters are Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois, a Republican, who will open the project in that state on Sept. 1 at a recently closed military base, and Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, a Democrat who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee. In Connecticut, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., an independent, has enthusiastically endorsed the program.
It also signals the new President's priorities. Congress approved the program in 1992, but President George Bush did not propose any financing for it; Mr. Clinton signed a $44 million appropriation on June 11. Besides Connecticut and Illinois, youth corps camps will train a total of 2,500 dropouts the first year in Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, New York (Camp Smith in Peekskill), Oklahoma and West Virginia.
 
Reminiscent of New Deal

To supporters, the new youth corps is reminiscent of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal and the belief that government can be used creatively to put people back to work. Clinton aides say that while the program predates the President's national service program, it fits well with that strategy. And it has caught the public's imagination. In Illinois there were 1,000 calls to the National Guard's toll-free number in the program's first 24 hours.
The 10 pilot projects are being watched closely by military officials worried about budget cuts and ways to ease the transition of soldiers into a civilian economy.
"To put it undelicately, this is a way for the National Guard to create a role for itself in the 21st century," said Beth Solomon, an aide to Senator Nunn. "It's a post-cold-war response."
The corps is the brainchild of Dan Donohue, the National Guard public relations director in Washington. Press releases emphasize "a peacetime domestic return to the American people on their investment in defense."
 
Many Applicants for Posts
 About half of the Connecticut staff is on active National Guard duty or has served in the military. Mr. Lafontan, the platoon leader, whose job is a mix of counselor and barracks supervisor, spent four years in the Marines and is now a civilian with two bachelor's degrees. Tim Coon, who like all the classroom teachers is state certified, has taught in public high schools and is a lieutenant in the Army Reserve.
There are seven hours of classes a day, covering the academic areas tested for the equivalency diploma, as well as drug and alcohol counseling and job-readiness skills.
Financing is generous -- more typical of a military than a social welfare program -- and there were large numbers of applicants for the 46 staff jobs here. Mr. Lafontan and Mr. Coon will each be paid more than $30,000 a year. The spending per student is $18,000.
"Anybody who's anybody wanted this job," says Sgt. Daniel Henderson, a platoon leader who was the state's National Guard Soldier of the Year in 1991.
The dropouts are outfitted from head (red baseball caps) to toe (Adidas sneakers), get a $15 weekly allowance, books and briefcases. While they march in cadence and usually call superiors "sir," they would never be mistaken for regular military.
Lamonte Brockenberry's corn rows pop out of from the sides of his cap; Ramonita Arroyo's ponytail hangs out of a hole in the back of hers. Donald Bunn, a squad leader who barks orders at his fellow dropouts, wears a hoop earring in his left ear and a red stud in his right. On his way to class, Bunn, as he is known to his friends, spotted a Guard officer and shouted, "How you doing, colonel?"
To qualify for the stipend, the dropouts need to do more than simply get the G.E.D., which has come under criticism nationally as not carrying the weight of a high school diploma. They must also find a job or enroll in a college or training course.
If they are too young to take the G.E.D., they can earn the stipend by returning to high school. (There is no military obligation for participants.) After completing the five-month session, they will be assigned a Guard member from their community, who will serve as their mentor for a year.
Applicants are supposed to be free of drugs and not currently involved with the criminal justice system (including not being on probation or parole), although many have had such problems in their pasts. Bunn says he has been "in and out of jail for stealing a car and violating probation." Mr. Lamonte sold drugs and "carried a weapon." Arthur says he stopped dealing because he was scared. "I was shot at and pistol-whipped," he said.
In this first Connecticut group, 58 percent are black or Hispanic teen-agers, 20 percent are female and 44 percent are from the state's three largest cities, Hartford, New Haven and Bridgeport.
While today was the ceremonial opening day, the young people have been here two weeks getting oriented. The challenge at hand is clear. Of 172 accepted, 50 have already left. Most could not take the paramilitary atmosphere and asked to go home; about a dozen were expelled. Earlier this week, four were arrested at the camp by the state police for third-degree assault, accused of beating up a student in the barracks.
And yet, to spend time with the three-quarters who remain is to find considerable hope. They are motivated. They have not been ordered here by a judge or a parold board; they have all decided, for their own reasons, it is time to change.
"I ain't going nowhere without that degree," said Damon Mesite, who wears his ponytail tucked under his hat. "I've been screwing up for two years, fighting and stuff, and I decided I might as well do it now, make my family happy."
Bunn packed his duffel bag and nearly quit on Thursday, but changed his mind after a talk with Mr. Lafontan. "He told me I'm not really a quitter," Bunn said. "They chose me to be a squad leader, and I'm very good in my position."
Mr. Lafontan said, "Slowly but surely, Bunn's being fixed."
Mr. Coon, the teacher, has been surprised that some of the toughest dropouts have privately asked for extra tutoring.
Slowly, they seem to be taking to the discipline. Asked if he enjoyed the program, Rasper Pugh replied, "It's bearable."
 
Some Ready for College
 Mr. Lafontan said he has students reading on the fourth-grade level and others, like Malik Lyons, who is ready for college. "I look at Malik," he said. "To me it's a mystery why he dropped out of school."
Asked why by a reporter, Malik said he quit in the ninth grade just because he did not find school interesting. But later, during a class exercise in which they were supposed to make a list of surprises in their lives, Malik wrote: "Father in and out of jail. Mother had to raise six kids herself. When my mother was at work, my brother brought home troublemakers who hung around the house all day."
"This is the first time I really read anything in two years," Malik said.
Richie DeClet asked Mr. Coon if they could stand at attention when the dignitaries arrived, and the teacher approved.
"You're cool, sir," said Lauryn Marotto.
Arthur ran back to the barracks to find his Guard pants and Adidas sneakers, and returned looking smart and chewing on his toothbrush.
When "the President's men" arrived -- the highest-ranking among them was Deborah R. Lee, Assistant Secretary of Defense -- Mr. Coon shouted, "Squad, ATTENTION!" and they leaped up.
"Uncover!" Rasper barked, and they smartly removed their red baseball caps.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dropouts seeking equivalency diplomas stand in formation at a National Guard Youth Corps camp. (Steve Miller for The New York Times) (pg. A1); A platoon of teen-agers, all high school dropouts, at the National Guard Youth Corp camp in Niantic, Conn., were late for morning formation and had to pay the physical price, top. John Rivera, above left, a team leader, instructed some youths in platoon rules as they straightened up their bunk. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GUARD (US); NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH CORPS CHALLENGE LET'S GO PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US); NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH CORPS CHALLENGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEENAGERS; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; DROPOUTS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (89%); ORPHANS (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); COLD WAR (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); FOSTER CARE (65%); BUDGETS (60%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



289 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3160 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Worry: A Generation of Leaders Not Up to the Task?

SERIES: A Continent Adrift -- Fourth of five articles.

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROME, Aug. 9

 BODY:
Confronted by political scandal, recession and the erosion of familiar comforts, Western Europeans have come to sense that the very people they chose to solve their problems have been in power too long to steer a dejected Continent through the shifting shoals that mark the close of the 20th century.
This year alone, France's Socialists have been ignominiously ousted from power, their counterparts in Spain have lost absolute control of Parliament for the first time in a decade, and an entire political elite has been decapitated by scandal in Italy. In Britain, Prime Minister John Major holds the dubious distinction of becoming his country's least-loved Prime Minister since polling began. And in Germany, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's popularity is at an all-time low. 
 To judge from conversations in London, Paris, Bonn and Rome, a malaise has settled into a region unnerved by joblessness, a decline in social services and the apparent failure of a tired old guard of politicians to produce a vision of the future.
In Bonn, "there is real mental exhaustion" among leaders, said a senior official of the Free Democrats, the junior party in Germany's governing coalition, speaking on condition of anonymity. "Crisis management pervades all the issues, and improvisation only fuels the discontent."
 
Age of Lowered Expectations
 "For the first time, parents are saying that things are going to be worse for their children," said Martine Aubry, a Socialist who served as Labor Minister in France's previous Government. "Before, they saw society as constantly improving."
The bleakness is compounded by predictions in all four capitals of a surge in nationalism that has mutated into violence against foreigners, adoption of stricter immigration policies in France and in Germany and a rise in support for the chauvinistic Northern League in Italy.
Even as Europe's old guard struggles in vain to freshen its image -- Italy's Christian Democrats want to change their name to the Popular Party, and governing parties routinely recruit people in their '40s as junior ministers -- a new generation of leaders seems far from asserting itself.
In Britain, there's "a feeling that the Government can't cope and no other set of politicians could cope either," said Lord Rees-Mogg, former editor of The Times and a Conservative member of the House of Lords. He said that Britons' attitude toward their politicians "is one of psychological, almost clinical depression."
Since the fall of Communism changed the Continent's perception of itself as an increasingly cohesive and ever more prosperous bloc confronting other great blocs -- the Soviet Union, the United States and Asia -- the old calculations, and the politicians who based their careers on them, are faltering.
 
Politicians in 'Time Warp'
 "Europe's politicians are generally stuck in a time warp," said Anatole Kaletsky, an economic commentator in London. "They are preoccupied with the problems of the 70's and 80's, but the challenges ahead are going to be quite different from the past 20 years."
Some common strands are evident in the challenges facing Europe's political systems. Of all the nations of Western Europe, Germany and Italy seem to have been most unsettled by the fall of Communism. After the euphoria of German reunification faded, politicians in Bonn were confronted with the unexpectedly high costs of integrating the Communist east and the affluent west; with no East bloc specter to warn against, Rome's leaders have largely been stripped of their role as a cold-war bastion against Western Europe's strongest Communist Party.
Politicians are also drained by the battle with high unemployment -- 2.95 million are out of work in Britain and more than 3 million in France and in Spain -- at a time when global competition threatens to consign the welfare state to the history books.
In Spain, France and Italy, Socialist parties have all come under varying degrees of pressure. Corruption charges have brought the virtual demise of Italy's Socialists this year, and France's Socialists were trounced in parliamentary elections in March.
 
Right-Wing Ascendancy
 "The Socialist alternative has disappeared," said Tony Benn, a Labor Party lawmaker in London, reflecting an impression across the Continent that tough capitalist policies have won the day.
Even center-right parties are in retreat in Germany, Britain and Italy. And the ideological void is such that "the variables between left and right are much narrower," said Alain Duhamel, a conservative commentator in Paris.
In countries whose politics were long viewed as a contest between moderate left and right, commentators now tend to focus on the danger of allowing any party to govern too long. In a recent commentary on Conservative Party financing, a British Catholic weekly in London remarked that "being in power too long" produces a certain "whiff" of corruption. Nowhere is that more evident than in Italy, where a vast corruption scandal seems inextricable from the struggle between old and new.
 
Italy
Scandal Brings Calls for Renewal
 Possibly the most quoted comment about the nation's politics came from the Sicilian writer Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa, who posited that, in Italy, everything has to change so that nothing will change.
That strain of cynicism suffuses what is without doubt Western Europe's most dramatic break with a discredited past. A corruption scandal that began in February 1992 has wrapped its tentacles around the entire business and political elite that has run the country since World War II.
Overwhelmed by evidence of graft, the Socialist Party of former Prime Minister Bettino Craxi has shriveled. The most senior echelons of the Christian Democrats are decimated. Giulio Andreotti, seven times prime minister and a symbol of postwar Italy, faces charges of corruption and association with the Mafia -- allegations that he denies -- and most of his most senior lieutenants are under investigation for fiscal wrongdoing.
So pervasive was the system of kickbacks that a former Health Minister has been accused of taking bribes from a private television station in return for publicly financed advertising on the dangers of AIDS. The biggest private and state companies have been implicated in the network of bribery.
As the standing of the old guard has plummeted, recent municipal elections have shown a rise in support for forces previously barred from the corridors of power -- the insurgent Northern League, particularly in Italy's wealthy northern region, and the former Communists, now known as the Democratic Party of the Left, in Italy's center.
The shift in voting patterns has begun to set off alarms -- in part because of the Northern League's embrace of xenophobia and in part because the decline of established parties has removed Italy's political center of gravity.
 
A Growing Divisiveness
 "The will to change is accompanied by a new form of intolerance and bitter local patriotism, which are dangerous because they tend to divide rather than unify," said Dacia Maraini, a prominent Florentine novelist and poet.
Warning that racist appeals could splinter this culturally diverse nation, one politician, Giuseppe Ayala, is seeking to promote a new centrist alliance to challenge the Northern League's leader, Umberto Bossi. "The greater the number of votes obtained by the League, the greater the threat to national unity," Mr. Ayala said.
There is little doubt that the people want profound political change. A referendum last April showed Italians overwhelmingly in favor of political reform. Municipal elections in June left the Socialists in complete collapse, and the once-powerful Christian Democrats with only a rump of support in their traditional southern domain.
While Italy has a new Government led by Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, a former central bank governor who has no political affiliation, the prospects for change are uncertain. The Italian Parliament, elected in April 1992, before the vast scope of Government corruption had become known, still reflects the old order. Dominated by a coalition led by Christian Democrats, it has little interest in calling new elections.
Only huge public pressure for change led the lawmakers to enact reforms last week changing the old system of pure proportional representation in Parliament, a system that had produced 52 unstable coalition governments since World War II.
The new rules, under which most lawmakers will be elected by direct ballot, are expected to reduce the number of parties in Parliament and make for more durable governments. But both Parliament and the Government seem reluctant to call a new vote before next spring.
Many political analysts say a parliamentary election next spring would probably help the Northern League translate its powerful support in the north into a strong parliamentary bloc in Rome. But it is unclear what else could emerge as politicians jostle to re-invent themselves. The only issue uniting new forces seems to be a rejection of the past.
"We must say it frankly: We have produced a political class which we can only be ashamed of," Mr. Ayala said recently.
 
Germany
Indecision At Europe's Heart
 In a recent opinion survey in Germany, 72 percent of the respondents thought it "scandalous" that former Labor Minister Gunther Krause used public money to pay his domestic help and cover the costs of a household move.
The amount involved, and the nature of the crime, may seem minuscule in comparison with what passes for corruption in Italy. Nonetheless, Mr. Krause resigned in May, just as Economics Minister Jurgen Mollemann had stepped down in January after acknowledging that he had written letters promoting a relative's business interests -- a common practice among German politicians.
In July, Interior Minister Rudolf Seiters resigned unexpectedly after a man described as a member of the Red Army Faction guerrilla group was killed at extremely close range in a shootout with an anti-terrorist squad in the eastern town of Bad Kleinen.
The impression created by the scandals, the resignations and the Government's frequent indecisiveness is that, after almost 12 years of rule sustained by the prosperity of the 1980's, the resolve of the Christian Democrats and their coalition partners, the Free Democrats, has slackened just as the country is facing up to the staggering financial costs of reunification.
"The population has the feeling that the basic problems are not being solved," said Meinhard Miegel, head of an independent research institute in Bonn.
In Germany, the challenges are immense.
 
Challenge of Absorbing East
 The cost of absorbing the wrecked economy of the former East Germany since October 1990 has been far greater than politicians or many ordinary Germans had expected. Millions of refugees from Eastern Europe poured into the country until tighter restrictions were imposed on July 1 eliminating the automatic right to political asylum. Inflation, unemployment and the unabated right-wing violence against foreigners haunt a Government that seems fearful of acknowledging the very weight of the problems.
"The violence happens, they get together to deal with it and then put it on the back burner," said an official of the Free Democratic Party, speaking on condition of anonymity. He lamented the absence of long-term strategies to cope with what many see as an alarming rise in neo-Nazism.
With elections looming next year -- and talk of a subsequent grand coalition of Christian Democrats, Free Democrats and Social Democrats -- opinion surveys show Mr. Kohl trailing behind his most likely challenger, the newly chosen leader of the Social Democrats, Rudolf Scharping.
Perhaps tellingly, neither man drew overwhelming support in the survey. The poll by the Allensbach Institute showed Mr. Scharping with 32 percent of the vote and Mr. Kohl with 24 percent. Equally worrisome, Government officials said, are predictions that far fewer Germans will bother to go to the polls next time than in previous elections.
Across Europe, people "are not particularly interested in selecting the most able people to be in charge of politics," Mr. Miegel said. Developments in France and Britain are putting that assertion to the test.
 
Britain
Tory Leader Sinks In the Polls

Whenever Prime Minister John Major peers across the Channel these days, it must be with a sense of envy. Even though the British leader says he has brought down inflation and sees the beginning of the end to his country's recession, poll experts estimate that only 19 percent of the British are satisfied with his performance as leader.
In Paris, by contrast, Edouard Balladur, another conservative Prime Minister facing similar economic and fiscal problems, is enjoying such overwhelming support after three months in office that one commentator calls him "the Balladur phenomenon."
Yet Mr. Major's problems are also strikingly different from those faced by Mr. Balladur. Personally he cannot shake off the impression that he is a "wimp," as he puts it. His Conservative Party has been in office for 14 years, a period overwhelmingly dominated by the tenure of his strong-willed predecessor, Margaret Thatcher. Even some of the party's senior members believe a spell in opposition would help the Conservatives regenerate.
In a reflection of its deep unpopularity, the Conservatives lost an important by-election in Christchurch, a middle-class stronghold for the party in southern England for the last 83 years. Many attributed the Conservatives' loss to Mr. Major's low standing and to what The Economist of London recently described as "the whiff of a party that is arrogant, out of touch and bloated by power."
Mr. Major's own party is riven with dissent over the Government's policy on fuller integration of the European Community, so much so that Mr. Major resorted to a high-stakes gamble by calling a confidence vote in Parliament -- where his party has a narrow, 17-seat majority -- to complete the debate on ratifying the Maastricht Treaty on European union.
"We've been through a difficult period," he acknowledged. "There have been difficult decisions that have had to be taken. Some difficult decisions lie ahead. I'm not going to be deflected from those difficult decisions."
Mr. Major's Government can also point to some economic progress, including signals that Britain's recession may be ending. The inflation rate is down to 2.8 percent, and unemployment has been gradually declining. But none of that seems to shake off the feeling that if general elections were held right now, the Conservatives would lose badly.
Deepening the mood of malaise, some commentators say, is a sense that the Labor Party opposition under John Smith has not seized the opportunity to present itself as a credible alternative the way the conservatives did in France in the parliamentary elections last spring.
Part of the problem is generational. Mr. Major himself is only 50, but to many Britons, his Government represents the tail end of 14 years of Conservative rule that set off the boom of the 1980's only to tumble into recession when the bubble of privatization burst.
Mr. Major, said Dottie Riley, a literary agent, "just does not inspire confidence."
Across the Channel, Mr. Balladur, 64, is doing the opposite, though no one is certain how long his appeal will last.
 
France
Voters in Search Of New Leaders
 Mr. Balladur offers the French a "reassuring," a patrician image of competence, says the journalist Pierre Hasky, even though his Government has been buffeted by Europe's currency turmoil and strong downward pressure on the French franc.
"He made fewer promises and gave no false hopes, so people take him seriously," said Mr. Duhamel, the conservative commentator. Such an approach caught the national mood at a time when, according to Ms. Aubry, the former Socialist Cabinet member, "the French don't want to be told stories anymore."
Mr. Duhamel remarked that Mr. Balladur was "politically still very young," having served in a top government post only once, as Finance Minister from 1986 to 1988 -- the last time parliamentary elections forced President Francois Mitterrand to "cohabit" with a conservative government.
None of that obscures the dilemma that Mr. Balladur runs the Government in loose consultation with Mr. Mitterrand, a 76-year-old Socialist who is as much a symbol of political longevity in France as Chancellor Kohl is in Germany or as Giulio Andreotti once seemed to be in Italy.
French parliamentary and presidential elections run on different schedules; the next presidential vote is set for 1995. That vote looms over French politics and reinforces the impression that the French, too, are living through an uneasy transition period.
 
Missing: The 60's Generation
 A slightly "younger" generation -- those who were high-school or college students during the street protests of 1968 -- has not made a significant mark, though Socialist governments have sought to appoint members of that age group to Cabinet posts. Some activists who were briefly viewed as potential challengers to the old elite, like Brice Lalonde, a former student leader of who now directs a political alliance of environmentalist groups, fared badly in the parliamentary elections.
Once again, the politicians mentioned as likely candidates for the 1995 presidential elections have a familiar ring.
In theory, Mr. Balladur became Prime Minister so that the leader of his neo-Gaullist party, former Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, could remain above the fray of day-to-day politics yet capitalize on any Government successes in making his presidential bid in 1995. The only problem with that calculation is that, after four months in office, Mr. Balladur is now running ahead of both Mr. Chirac and his conservative coalition partner, former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing, in opinion surveys.
None of the poll ratings mask what is viewed in Britain, France, Germany and Italy as a fundamental gulf between people and politicians.
What the politicians offer, in varying degrees and with varying effectiveness, is management; what they do not offer is the broader vision that inspired the French under de Gaulle or the Germans under Adenauer. "French politics were too ideological, and now it's gone too far the other way; there's no ideology, no ideas," Ms. Aubry said.
After decades of certainty, even complacency, about its security and prosperity, it is difficult to tell what force could energize Western Europe again.
"The most important problem," said Mr. Miegel, the analyst in Bonn, "is a problem afflicting all our societies: All these states got too wealthy. They are very cushioned, very comfortable -- and generally have a lack of stimulus."
NEXT: Europe's unemployed but hopeful youths.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Italy's corruption scandal may represent the biggest departure from Western Europe's political past. A fight broke out in the Senate in March during a speech by Giuliano Amato, then the Prime Minister, who had backed a plan to soften punishment for bribery. (Reuters)
 
Graphs/Photos: "Ebbing Confidence in the Old Guard" shows respective national levels of dissatisfaction with the leaders of Britain, France, Germany, and Italy. Photos are of Prime Minister John Major, President Francois Mitterrand, Chancellor Helmut Kohl, and Prime Minister Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. (Sources: Market and Opinion Research International; Le Figaro Magazine-Sofres; Emnid Institute; La Repubblica)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); ITALY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE ; FRANCE; ITALY; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY EUROPE (97%); ITALY (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) PRIME MINISTERS (92%); POLITICS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); TRENDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (75%); PARENTING (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); RELIGION (66%); DEPRESSION (60%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (56%); HELMUT KOHL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



290 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: After Her Pivotal 'Yes' on Budget, Now the Fallout

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WYNDMOOR, Pa., Aug. 10

 BODY:
A vision of the future stared back at Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky from a table at Nick's Pizzeria the other day, and it did not appear altogether happy.
This was her first foray back home since her name became more than a mouthful Thursday night in Washington. She had changed her mind at the last minute and cast the vote that insured passage of President Clinton's economic package in the House, a stunning move for a freshman Democrat from a district in which Republicans outnumber Democrats almost 2 to 1. 
 Jay Moore, a 47-year-old veteran of the Vietnam War, not much of a fan of politicians to begin with, was slightly bemused to find himself in the same restaurant with the woman who represents him in Congress from the suburbs northwest of Philadelphia in Montgomery County.
 
Visions of Deceit
 "They're all deceitful," he said before Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky made her way across the room to shake hands and try to make sense of her date with history.
It was quite a story. Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky had widely proclaimed her opposition to the bill for not going far enough to cut spending and deal with the costs of social programs, and that is what she told anyone who asked: Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader who inquired the day before; party whips, as they leaned on House members all day Thursday; even Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger C. Altman, who called about an hour before the vote.
But as she had in voting for the House version of the bill in May, she waited until the end of the balloting in case her vote was crucial. This is not uncommon for undecided members or those from difficult districts. Routinely, party leaders ask them to delay voting, as they had of Pat Williams of Montana, Ray Thornton of Arkansas and David Minge of Minnesota. If their votes are then not needed, they are free to vote as they choose. If the votes are necessary, they are asked to consider the party first.
This time the party needed her, and as a result, she voted with the President -- but not before extracting a fig leaf or two to respond to critics for her 11th-hour reversal. At the least, she won assurance from the President of a conference in her district on the deficit in which Mr. Clinton and several Cabinet members would participate.
 
'Window of Opportunity'
 It was a political gamble -- she readily acknowledged that -- but also a chance to make a difference by adding a new voice to the mix. "A window of opportunity," she called it today during a visit to the Green Acres senior center here, where she found people more supportive than those at Nick's in Norristown. "I wasn't going to do it at 217. I wasn't going to do it at 219. Only at 218, or I was voting against it."
Predictably, in a region where people debate politics as passionately as the Phillies and the Eagles, reaction was swift and intense. In Montgomery County and beyond, Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky has been judged a patriotic heroine by some and a traitor by others.
But beyond labels and name-calling, she faces the larger question of political survival. Last year, she became the first Democrat to represent the district since 1916, defeating her Republican opponent, Jon D. Fox, by only 1,373 of 257,510 votes cast in a campaign in which she accused him of reversing his position on abortion rights. Yet she acknowledged that any chance for re-election might hinge less on sentiments of the moment than the willingness of angry constituents like Mr. Moore and other diners at Nick's to accept her explanation of why she changed her mind.
"Look, I have a terrible time not telling the truth," Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky said. "My staying there is not the issue. I don't possess that job. That job does not possess me. I'm not there to be popular. I'm there to do what's right. I will explain it; I just hope I have the time."
What is right, she has insisted since the vote, was seizing a chance to push a discussion of automatic-spending programs into the forefront of national debate, to make Social Security, welfare, Medicare and Medicaid more fair and efficient and a smaller piece of the budget. Entitlement programs, as they are known, now account for more than a third of the Federal budget.
To her detractors, voting for a bill to raise taxes was egregious enough. Changing her mind made it worse. Never mind the conference on entitlements, as many of them have said. She knows they are the ones she needs to persuade, but for now, it is unclear whether they can be or, because of their anger, want to be.
"I don't believe in people with two faces," Tom Borai, 59, a worker at a local tool company, said while Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky was eating lunch in another room at Nick's. "She stated she was not for it. Then after 15 minutes with Mr. Clinton she changed her mind. I do know that bothered a lot of people in this county, and I think it will hurt her in the next election."
 
Prospects for Re-election
 Sitting nearby, Ralph Herge, a 37-year-old landscaper who said he had voted for Mr. Fox, called her "a sellout" for relinquishing her position. Yet he applauded her explanation and predicted that alone might soften the damage in a re-election campaign.
"What she did, by telling us exactly what happened, seems to make sense," Mr. Herge said. "It may not hurt her if more of Clinton's stuff works. But if it all falls apart, then it will."
Mr. Moore, who was reared in South, said he had voted for Mr. Clinton only as a matter of loyalty to a fellow Southerner. But he said he had not cast a vote in the House race because of a general distrust of politicians who might raise taxes. That was why he continued to express skepticism, even after receiving assurances from Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky that she would help him if he ran into problems collecting veteran's benefits.
"She said she didn't think it was a good piece of legislation but she still voted for it," he said. "If it wasn't good, why did she vote for it? She said if she didn't, we'd still be in gridlock. But it doesn't make sense to me."
Still, Mr. Moore was satisfied enough with her sincerity to be "a little open-minded" about voting for her next year.
Not unexpectedly, Republican leaders in the district have vilified Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky, gleefully predicting that she had severely damaged her chances for re-election next year. Christopher J. Bravacos, executive director of the Republican State Committee, assessing the effect of Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky's vote, said, "It's premature to say it's suicide, but maybe Dr. Kevorkian is lurking." He was referring to Dr. Jack Kevorkian, the retired pathologists who has assisted people in committing suicide.
Mr. Fox, her vanquished opponent and one of three Montgomery County Commissioners, said: "She pretends to be a Republican and a reformer and a fiscal conservative. But the facts are, she's a typical tax-and-spend Democrat. She has lied to the taxpayer. Now, she's an insider career politician."
 
Democrats Assess Damage
 While Democrats have rallied to her side, applauding her courage, they at least acknowledge difficulties ahead.
"I'm sure her vote has done some damage," said Colleen S. Alexander, co-chairwoman of the county Democratic committee. "I don't think a lot of people really understand the difficulties involved with cutting entitlements. But by the time this all plays out, I think she'll be able to educate people, and maybe turn some of them around."
Edith Greenberg, the 70-year-old wife of Phil Greenberg, a resident of Green Acres, is among those already convinced.
"I'm scared and frightened," she told Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky. "I could live another 14 years, but how will I live? I might have to get a job. But it took a lot of courage for you to change your mind. Even if it costs me more, you were honest enough to say the plan was no good. Why do we want that? But things have to change, and I appreciate what you're doing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky made her first foray back home in suburban Philadelphia since she changed her mind and cast the vote that insured House passage of President Clinton's budget plan. She explained her decision to Jay Moore, a Vietnam War veteran, at a local pizzeria. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); 

PERSON: MARGOLIES-MEZVINSKY, MARJORIE (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (90%); ROGER ALTMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



291 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: JAPANESE PREMIER TACKLES U.S. TIES

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 10

 BODY:
Japan's new Prime Minister used his first news conference today to emphasize his eagerness to improve strained relations and reduce Japan's huge trade surplus with the United States, but he rejected most of the tools President Clinton has insisted on using to do the job.
While the Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, said Japan would open its markets and reform its political structure, he suggested that Tokyo would not open its rice market, would not cut taxes to stimulate the anemic economy and would refuse to set targets for Japanese imports or for reductions in the trade surplus. The Clinton Administration has pressed for such targets. 
 In the hourlong news conference today, Mr. Hosokawa indicated that he was committed to change, but on a narrow range of issues, focused principally on eliminating corruption in Japan's electoral system.
In one respect, Mr. Hosokawa broke with tradition by plainly saying that he personally believed that Japan should admit its role in World War II. "I myself believe it was a war of aggression, a war that was wrong," he said.
 
Seeks Smoother Relations
 Mr. Hosokawa said that relations with the United States "should remain the core of Japanese foreign policy."
"As in the past, even more than in the past, we should try to operate U.S.-Japan relations more smoothly than before," he said.
But he said that he was generally happy to defer to longstanding policies on a range of other issues, including relations with Washington.
President Clinton has demanded measurable improvements in the trade relationship with Japan. He has sought to pry open formally closed markets, like that for rice, to remove barriers that discriminate against foreign companies and products, to encourage Tokyo to stimulate the faltering Japanese economy with a tax cut and to rely on numerical targets for increasing imports and narrowing the surplus.
 
Plans to Meet Clinton
 Mr. Hosokawa said he hopes to meet President Clinton soon, either in September at the United Nations or in November at a meeting of Asian nations in Seattle. He also said that he hopes to alter the Japanese economy so that its impetus comes more from domestic consumption than exports, and to deregulate the economy.
But overall, his ideas do not appear to be any more in harmony with Washington's than those of his predecessor, Kiichi Miyazawa.
"Currently, because of this very difficult economic situation, we don't think the climate lends itself to tax reduction," Mr. Hosokawa said, adding that numerical targets on trade questions are "somewhat inappropriate."
"Free trade and free-market economic principles are the basis on which we would like to correct the imbalance," Mr. Hosokawa said.
 
Moves Closer to Bureaucrats
 His new positions hewed much closer to the policies that have been articulated by Japan's powerful bureaucrats than his campaign pledges, a sign that for all his reformist credentials Mr. Hosokawa will be pragmatic.
Mr. Hosokawa took office on Monday as the head of a seven-party coalition that wrested power from the Liberal Democratic Party for the first time in 38 years.
But the Cabinet he announced on Monday is dominated by conservative former Liberal Democrats, and his comments today seemed to show that the bureaucracy of Japan's Government may prove more of an obstacle than Mr. Hosokawa had anticipated.
The best example of this shift was his attitude toward those suffering from what is called Minamata disease. Hundreds of people from Mr. Hosokawa's native prefecture of Kumamoto in southwest Japan have suffered painful long-term disorders and birth defects because of industrial poisoning of the waters at Minamata Bay.
The chemical company involved has agreed to provide compensation to those afflicted, but the central Government has refused to approve the deal because it would be tantamount to admitting Government responsibility for not acting more swiftly to prevent the poisonings. As Governor of Kumamoto, Mr. Hosokawa fought the Government. He said today, however, that he would accept the old policy.
"My feeling is unchanged, but my position has changed," he said. "The fact is that I am placed in a rather difficult position."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CONSUMPTION (71%); TRENDS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



292 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

EMPIRE PLANS STAFF REDUCTIONS
Moving swiftly to reverse years of financial decline, the new head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans to cut costs by 10 percent, largely by reducing its staff through attrition, early retirement and layoffs, a company spokesman says. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
NEW LIMIT FOR SHELTERING FAMILIES
New York City will soon refuse to shelter families who say they are homeless but who could continue to live with friends or family, or who abandon their own apartments because of crime in their neighborhoods, officials say. A1. 

TRAINING IN OLD ARTS
Twenty-four summer interns are working on a restoration effort that include stained-glass restoration at St. Ann and the Holy Trinity Episcopal Church in Brooklyn Heights through the city's summer jobs program for young people. B2.
 
GIULIANI OFFERS ECONOMIC PLAN
Looking toward the future by casting back to the revitalization of New York City's economy in the early 1980's, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor, has released a plan for the city's economy. B3.
 
CHEAPER WATER COVER SOUGHT
Mayor Dinkins has instructed his environmental commissioner to look into less expensive ways to cap the city's Hillview reservoir. B3.
 
A teen-ager who prosecutors say was criminally beaten by two off-duty New York City police officers has testified about the incident. B3.
 
Sam Chwat teaches senators how to drop their regional accents when they are in Washington, and how to pick them up again on the campaign trail. B4.
 
Few scenes in New York may be as romantic as an outdoor cafe table in SoHo, but to a small group of artists and urban pioneers, nothing has been more disturbing. C1.
 
REGION
 
DISMISSAL PROMPTS SUIT
JoMarie DeGioia is suing Weight Watchers, contending she lost her job because she was pregnant and her employers believed she was gaining more weight than is normal. B4.
 
LESBIAN GETS PARENTAL RIGHTS
A family court judge in Newark has upheld a lesbian's right to become the adoptive parent of her partner's child, in an unusually detailed opinion addressing a practice that has been growing. B5.
 
SUFFOLK PLANNING DIRECTOR NAMED
The Suffolk County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney, has nominated Stephen M. Jones to become the county's director of planning. B5.
 
A TRIUMPHAL YEAR FOR JUDGE KAYE
For Judge Judith Smith Kaye, New York State's new chief judge, the warm reception she received at the American Bar Association convention caps an extraordinary 10 months. C1.
 
CHECKING OUT THE YANKEES
New Jersey's Gov. Jim Florio said state officials have been talking to the New York Yankees to see if the team is serious about moving across the river from the Bronx. B9.
 
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman B3
 
Chronicle B4

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Commercial Vacancies" tracks average vacancy rates for commercial real estate in Hartford, Northern New Jersey, and Westchester County, in percent of space vacant, since 1987. (Source: Cushman & Wakefield)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); JUDGES (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GAY PARENTING (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAMILY COURTS (76%); FAMILY LAW (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); COUNTIES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LITIGATION (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); MAYORS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DIETING (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); BASEBALL (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (66%); SAME SEX PARENTAL RIGHTS (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); ADOPTION (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



293 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
American Airlines did not try to drive weaker rivals out of business with "predatory" prices during last summer's air fare war, a Federal jury swiftly decided. [Page D1.] 
 General Motors is recalling 80 percent of all Saturn cars it has ever made to correct an electrical problem that has caused engines in at least 34 Saturns to catch fire. [A1.]
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans to cut costs by 10 percent, mostly by shrinking staff, to save the insurer up to $55 million a year. [A1.]
A power struggle at the Rodman & Renshaw Capital Group pits two former Wall Street executives against each other. [D3.]
I.B.M.'s supercomputer business got a lift as two Federal agencies awarded a grant to a test center for the machines. [D3.]
Mips Technologies named as its president the director of RISC processor development at I.B.M. [D3.]
Pepsico said it would invest $500 million in Poland, expecting to create 9,000 jobs during the next five years. [D3.]
Globex ended talks to include the London Financial Futures and Options Exchange in its computerized trading system. [D4.]
 
The Economy
Few high-income investors, whose Federal tax rate has been increased to as much as 39.6 percent, have done much to seek out tax breaks -- either in the months leading up to the tax bill, or after its passage by Congress. [D1.]
American workers' productivity fell between January and June, after rising for almost two years. The Labor Department report could raise fears of layoffs or inflationary pressures. [D1.]
President Clinton signed the budget bill and discussed legislative battles to come on trade and health care issues. [A10.]
 
International
Japan's new Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa, used his first news conference to stress an eagerness to reduce the country's trade surplus with the U.S. But he suggested Japan would not open its rice market and would refuse to set targets for imports. [A7.]
In an apparent attempt to talk Germany out of its worst recession since World War II, its economics minister said that a mild recovery would begin in the second half of this year. [D2.]
 
Business Technology
Not since the Bell System breakup has the telecommunications industry seen such upheaval as in California, where long-distance phone companies will soon be allowed to carry short-haul toll calls that are now the province of local companies. [D1.]
A.T.& T. and TDS Telecom announced a plan to provide rural customers phone services like Caller I.D., which are becoming widely available in cities. [D5.]
 
Markets
As the Treasury's quarterly auction got under way, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond slipped to a 16-year low, 6.44 percent. Yields on most Treasury notes were slightly higher. [D14.]
Stocks were mixed. The Dow Jones industrials closed at 3,572.73 points, down 3.35 from its high set on Monday. [D6.]
The dollar rallied amid speculation that several European Community countries would cut interest rates. [D16.]
Prices for pork bellies fell for a sixth straight session as receding Midwest floods let farmers bring hogs to market. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Jay, David, Chevy, Conan and Arsenio are pursuing almost every imaginable promotional ploy to attract viewers to their late-night television talk shows. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Investors in Johnstown America, which has sold well since going public in July, may not know of a significant lawsuit that the prospectus did not disclose. Kurt Eichenwald: Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); POLAND (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (84%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (72%); DIRECT MARKETS HOLDINGS CORP (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (56%); MIPS TECHNOLOGIES INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); POLAND (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); AIRLINES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); AIR FARES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BONDS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); RECESSION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); FUTURES (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (54%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (54%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



294 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Rich Aren't Rushing to Avoid New Taxes (Yet)

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
The Dreyfus Corporation, one of the largest distributors of tax-free mutual funds, ran full page ads on Monday, the first business day after the Clinton tax bill passed, offering a toll-free telephone number to discuss shifting investments into tax-exempt funds. Only 50 people responded.
Dreyfus is just one of the brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, financial advisers and private banks that have jumped on the new tax law as an excuse to sell products to their customers. 
 But so far, few of the high-income investors, whose Federal tax rate has been increased to as much as 39.6 percent, have done much to seek out tax breaks -- either in the months leading up to the tax bill, or after its passage by Congress -- according to executives who deal with wealthy clients.
"There has not been a lot of reaction to the tax bill thus far among our clients," said David W. Parsons, the head of financial planning at Chase Manhattan Bank's private banking unit. "Next April 15, people will realize they should have done something to cut their tax bills, then people will take a year to figure out what to do. The market has been changing so much, the individuals we talk to have been somewhat paralyzed."
This paralysis may confound those economists who predicted a rush into tax-sheltered investments. In fact, some have argued that raising tax rates on the rich actually would not bring in more dollars to lower the deficit. The view from those who sell investment products is that the Internal Revenue Service will have a bountiful harvest next year.
Tax rates for families with incomes of more than $140,000 a year, who file jointly, have been raised from 31 percent to 36 percent. Those with incomes of more than $250,000 a year will pay a top rate of 39.6 percent. The Clinton Administration says these changes will bring in $115 billion over five years.
But even if few people have made changes in anticipation of the tax increase, executives do expect an eventual shift of funds into more tax-sheltered investments. "History says changes in tax law change investor behavior," said Gerald H. Tankersley, the head of asset management at Prudential Securities.
One reason that there is no immediate rush into tax shelters is that there are not as many. The most lucrative tax dodges of the past, such as certain limited partnerships, were eliminated by the tax act of 1986 and not restored this year.
"This bill is purely a tax rate increase," said Paul Gordon, the head of tax planning at U.S. Trust Company, a New York bank that serves the wealthy. "It will just cost more, and the clients are not happy."
Investors would likely move more money into tax-deferred retirement accounts, such as 401(k) plans offered by employers, investment executives said. And the tax law, which does not raise rates on capital gains, creates a small incentive to prefer stocks that will appreciate in value over those that pay dividends.
The most widespread tax-sheltered investments are municipal bonds, which are free of Federal income taxes and usually the taxes of the state and local governments that issue them. Yet even leading municipal bond dealers, like Dreyfus, report limited impact from the tax bill.
That is not to say that no one has reacted to the prospect of higher taxes. At the retail brokerage unit of Lehman Brothers, 6 percent of the money that clients invested in taxable bonds has been shifted into tax-free bonds over the last year. And at Dreyfus, sales of tax-free funds are up 18 percent over last year.
 
 
Small Shifts
 But these shifts are small and come at a time when interest in all investments is increasing. "There has been such a great influx of cash into the markets recently," said Robert Silver, the head of the brokerage offices at Paine Webber.
Most of this money, however, has been from investors discouraged by low interest paid on bank accounts. "To be sure, we are the beneficiaries as people respond to the tax bill, but it's hard to tell how much," he said.
Indeed, many investors who would have benefited from tax shelters under the old law have not taken advantage of them. At Fidelity Investments, the country's largest mutual fund distributor, only 25 percent of the money invested in its money market funds, by upper-bracket investors, is in tax-free versions. "Most of the people who would be better off in a tax-free fund, oddly enough are not," said Neal Litvack, the head of marketing at Fidelity.
"Tax-free investing is complicated," he said. "It's hard for someone to see a yield of 4 percent on a tax-free fund and see that is the equivalent of 7 percent on a taxable fund." In fact, many stockbrokers and other financial advisers still recommend that their clients use taxable investments, Mr. Litvack said. "Those are the ones they understand and are comfortable with," he said.
 
 
Limited Effect
 On the other hand, for sophisticated investors, the new law should have limited effect, precisely because if they were optimizing their tax positions, they would already have had most of their bond investments in the tax-free variety. "Even before the passage of the tax bill, we were advising clients to look at tax-free bonds; changing the rate from 31 to 39.6 percent hasn't changed our outlook much," said Mr. Silver of Paine Webber.
Moreover, tax-free bonds are an alternative to taxable bonds for investors who need a steady income with less risk to their principal, such as retired people. They are not a substitute for stocks, which offer potential for more capital growth with more risk. Most brokerage firms continue to recommend that the bulk of their clients' portfolios be invested in stocks.
The tax rate on capital gains, which are earned from the appreciation of the price of an investment, remains at 28 percent, significantly lower than the highest rate on ordinary income. Thus investors have an additional incentive to buy stocks with long-term growth potential. Yet even this fact has not changed the amount of a portfolio most firms allocate to the stock market.
"It's a big tax increase, but not so big that we would change what we are doing," said Mr. Parsons of Chase. "One thing we stress is that clients need to be tax-wise, never tax-driven."
 
 
'Pretty Bearish'
 Perhaps the greatest effect of the tax bill has been to contribute to the uncertainty of many investors. "People are pretty bearish about the economic outlook," said Mr. Litvack.
He said that Fidelity's consumer sentiment study shows that investors are in the most pessimistic mood since last October. They expect taxes to keep going up, interest rates to rise and the stock market to fall, he said. As a result, Fidelity, like other investment firms, has noticed that more investors are becoming more conservative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DRY (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (95%); U S TRUST CO NA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX-SHELTERED INVESTMENTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); TAX PLANNING (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US 401K PLANS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); TAX FRAUD (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); BONDS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (85%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



295 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Of Workers Falls Sharply

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10

 BODY:
After rising steadily for almost two years, the productivity of American workers dropped between January and June, the Labor Department said today in a report that could raise worries about layoffs or renewed inflationary pressures.
The department reported that average nonfarm output per hour of work sank at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 2.5 percent from April to June, the second quarterly drop this year and the biggest decline in more than four years. From January through March productivity dropped at a rate of 1.6 percent. 
 Economists say that, in the long run, the paychecks of workers and the profits of companies depend heavily on their efficiency. Because wages continued to rise while productivity was falling during the second quarter, the labor cost for each unit of nonfarm business production leaped by 4.2 percent. Rising production costs force businesses to raise prices or risk watching their profits dwindle.
"The unit labor cost increase for the business sector is not favorable from the point of view of inflation pressures," said Edwin R. Dean, associate commissioner for productivity and technology in the department's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 
Warning About Layoffs
 Michael R. Darby, Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs in the Bush Administration, warned that companies might lay off workers if economic output continued its slow pace, saying, "You may see decreases in the hourly work force to match the output, rather than the other way around."
But some Wall Street analysts played down the significance of today's figures, saying some erosion in productivity was inevitable when employment was rising and economic output was increasing very slowly. Productivity, calculated by dividing output by employment, grew very quickly last year when the economy was expanding and few companies were adding workers.
"We've had two quarters in a row of sharp contractions of productivity," said Stephen S. Roach, a principal and senior economist at Morgan Stanley. "On the surface it seems disturbing, but you have to put it in the context of coming after seven consecutive quarters of steadily rising productivity."
Mr. Roach said that while companies might not lay off the extra workers they hired this spring, today's figures suggested they might not be hiring many more.
 
Several Estimates Used
 Some economists contend that quarterly productivity figures are unreliable because they are calculated from several estimates, including how many hours the average employee works each week. "The quarter-to-quarter numbers basically don't mean anything," said Barry P. Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings Institution.
Today's announcement did not appear to affect financial markets, said Marilyn C. Schaja, a money market economist at Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette. "It's one of those sort of orphan numbers that doesn't get much attention," she said.
The decline in overall productivity came despite a 5 percent gain in productivity for manufacturing companies, which make up a fifth of the economy. Wall Street analysts attributed the overall decline to a steep plunge in services industry productivity, for which the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases no figures because of doubts about the data's reliability.
The restaurant, health care and temporary-services industries hired many workers in the first half of the year and these industries tend to have low, slow-growing productivity, said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch & Company.
 
Lower Productivity Increases
 Annual increases in American productivity averaged about 1 percent during the 1970's and 80's, much less than the 2.5 percent increases in preceding decades. Many economists attribute some of the nation's lackluster economic performance since the Johnson Administration to slow productivity growth.
Second-quarter productivity was up only seven-tenths of 1 percent from a year ago. Pointing to strong growth in manufacturing productivity, Mr. Steinberg at Merrill Lynch said the Labor Department figures might have understated recent productivity growth.
Productivity could average 1.5 to 2 percent in the 1990's, he said.
But Mr. Bosworth said he distrusted the estimates of high manufacturing productivity because manufacturers were contracting out for many services, which made it seem as though they were producing more goods with fewer workers.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Productivity" shows index of output per hour of all people in nonfarm businesses from '89 to '93 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MORGAN STANLEY (53%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); PRICES PRODUCTIVITY (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE; DARBY, MICHAEL R; BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



296 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Outlines Plan to Stir Economy

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
Looking toward the future by casting back to the revitalization of New York City's economy in the early 1980's, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor, yesterday released an extensive plan for the city's economy that stressed cutting the city work force by more than 16 percent, tax relief and an end to some fines that he said were driving small businesses from the city.
His proposals, delivered in a morning speech at the Sheraton New York before an audience of about 80 supporters and dismissed by the Mayor's office by dusk as "political plagiarism," were essentially a refrain from speeches he has given in recent months. 
 Though bulwarked by specifics, his plan -- billed as a major speech on the city's economics -- essentially offered no new ideas, economists familiar with the city budget said. It did, however, rework some proposals that have been kicked around at City Hall for years.
Among Mr. Giuliani's specific proposals were these:
*A 10 percent reduction in the size of the Mayor's staff.
*Reducing the size of city government to 1983 levels by cutting about 35,000 city jobs, of a total of 215,000, through attrition and early-retirement packages.
*A phase-out of the unincorporated business tax and the commercial rent tax and at least a 5 percent reduction in the hotel occupancy tax.
*An end to duplications of services provided by the city and the state in such agencies as the Civil Service Commission, the Department of Mental Health and the Department of Consumer Affairs.
 
Prediction or Quota?
 As Mr. Giuliani discussed sanitation and parking fines that have angered small shopkeepers, his handpicked audience roared with laughter when he pointed them to page 198 of the present city budget and a line item that predicts 8 million parking tickets in the current fiscal year as opposed to 7 million last year.
"How does he know that 1 million more people are going to be parking illegally next year?" Mr. Giuliani asked. "In fact, we all know that 8 million figure becomes a quota."
Many of Mr. Giuliani's proposals have long been backed by the Citizens Budget Commission and were quickly embraced by the private watchdog group yesterday. "I thought it was very good," Raymond D. Horton, the group's president said yesterday after reviewing a copy of Mr. Giuliani's plan. "These are the ideas and notions that the Citizens Budget Commission has really been emphasizing in recent years."
Yet critics of the plan countered that the proposals remained both vague and general. Hearing details of the speech while at a news conference in Elmhurst, Queens, Mayor David N. Dinkins criticized the Giuliani proposal as "generalities" and added: "That won't do. Not for a plan. You can't run a city like that."
The Mayor's office later took Mr. Giuliani to task for suggesting across-the-board cuts, an approach they said Mr. Giuliani himself called a "simplistic solution" in 1989. The Mayor's staff also attacked the proposal to reduce taxes, saying that such cuts would result in a $2 billion loss in revenue, "enough to pay for the police, juvenile justice and probation departments, all five district attorneys and the special narcotics prosecutor."
Mitchell L. Moss, the director of New York University's Urban Research Center and an informal adviser to the Dinkins campaign, said Mr. Giuliani's remarks called for easy fixes that would not work when put into practice. "Most of these things are the most popular and easy forms of rhetoric in New York," he said. "Everyone speaks about cuts, but no one says where they are."
 
'The Real Question'
 Felix G. Rohatyn, a leading Wall Street financier who is supporting Mr. Dinkins, also disagreed with generalized cuts. "Attrition is a very random and very ineffective way of doing anything," he said. "The real question is how do you have the cuts and have the unions go along."
In his first major policy speech of the campaign, Mr. Giuliani told supporters that it was time for "some straight talk," then assailed the Dinkins administration for losing jobs and weakening commerce. "Once, New York City was the undisputed business capital of the nation and the world," Mr. Giuliani said. "The sound of our commerce circled the globe." Now, he said, "what you hear is an ominous silence."
He criticized the Dinkins administration for backing a "taxing program without parallel," noting that city taxes had increased $2.5 billion in the last 13 months. The answer, he said, "is management -- and management starts with the Mayor."
His own plans for management would include trimming the processing time for arrests to several hours from 10 to 15 hours, using more civilian employees in the Police Department to free officers for police work, consolidating a number of city offices and contracting with private companies to provide city services wherever they can be accomplished more effectively outside the government's purview.
 
'Appeals to Us'
 "My broad reaction was good," said Ronald K. Shelp, president of the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry. "The only way you solve the problems of this city is through partnerships. And another thing that appeals to us is privatization."
Many who reviewed the speech said, however, that some of Mr. Giuliani's proposals have also appeared on the Mayor's agenda only to be turned back in Albany or dropped because of difficulties in pushing them past strong unions.
Privatization, for example, has worked effectively in Philadelphia, Phoenix and Chicago, Mr. Shelp said, and has drawn support from both sides of the New York City Mayor's race. "They have at least both now said they approve," he said.
Marc V. Shaw, the director of finance for the City Council, also responded positively, but cautioned: "It sounds good in theory, but the devil is in the details. Some of these things are a lot easier said than done."
 
Some Exemptions
 One of Mr. Giuliani's most detailed suggestions is sizing down city government from its current payroll of about 215,000 workers to a level of 180,000 within four years. That reduction, he said, would result in savings of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion annually in the fourth year of the next mayoral term, generating savings that could be used in trimming taxes.
Mr. Giuliani said he would exempt some city agencies, including those involved with "children and public safety and parks and cultural affairs."
Giuliani proposals that won broad support yesterday included those encouraging government and business links, privatizing some public services and establishing enterprise zones.
"I think he has laid out the smart way to do it," said Mr. Horton of the Citizens Budget Commission. "I don't remember anything this specific from him when he ran in 1989. These things he is saying now, well, they are not new ideas. But we have been doing a kind of rough and dirty analysis here and, basically, what he says can work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor, released a proposal to overhaul the city's economy. He took a break from politicking to join in a birthday celebration for his daughter, Caroline, who is turning 4. Standing second from left was Mr. Giuliani's wife, Donna Hanover. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; TAXATION; SMALL BUSINESS; ELECTION ISSUES MAYORS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PARKING OFFENSES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PLAGIARISM (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); TRENDS (68%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



297 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: In Summer Doldrums, Stocks Are Mixed

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday, taking their cue from a bond market now working its way through the Government's quarterly auction of new debt securities.
Ricky Harrington, senior vice president and technical analyst at Interstate/Johnson Lane of Charlotte, N.C., described yesterday's market performance as "typical summer doldrums that are measured not in days, but months, showing no progress in terms of the Dow." 
 "We have stayed at about 3,550 for more than a month," he said, "wandering within a narrow, 50-point trading range. On the positive side of the market you have low interest rates, especially in long-term rates, now at 16-year lows. Individually, stocks adjusted during earnings season, and now that that has passed, the market is without stimuli to break out of this range. Any move now above 3,600 on the Dow will be temporary."
 
Gains and Declines Close
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 3,572.73, down 3.35 points from a high set on Monday. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 255.5 million, up from 232.3 million in the previous session, as gaining and losing issues were close, with 1,002 up and 949 down.
Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks lost 1.27 points to 449.45, while the Big Board composite index slipped 0.45 point to 249.63. The Nasdaq composite dropped 1.41 points to 717.08, but the American Stock Exchange composite was 0.39 point higher, at 439.19.
Robert C. Walberg, equity analyst at MMS International, said "there was a lack of follow-through from Monday, but that's in keeping with the pattern set by the market over the past few months."
"The holding pattern is in keeping with what is going on in the bond market," he said.
Investors' attention was mainly focused yesterday on the first leg of the Treasury's quarterly borrowing, consisting of $16.25 billion in three-year notes. Today, the Treasury auctions 10-year notes. "Yields under 6.50 percent are hard to ignore," a trader remarked.
RJR Nabisco said that it was again increasing the size of its planned preferred-stock offering, which is expected today. The size of the deal is $1 billion, up from $750 million and doubling the originally planned offering of $500 million. It calls for the sale of 40 million shares of cumulative preferred stock at $25 a share, and is expected to have a dividend yield of 9.25 percent.
Another area of interest was retail stocks. Traders said that flood damage in the Midwest may increase sales. With a great deal to be replaced, they expect some investors to be looking at discount retailers.
 
Drug Stocks Down
 An article in The Wall Street Journal yesterday on drug stocks said the latest blow to the group was the provision in the budget bill that would reduce tax benefits for manufacturers from operations in Puerto Rico. Merck was off 5/8, to 30; Bristol-Myers Squibb was down 3/8, to 51 3/8; Abbott Labs down 1/2, to 23 3/4, and Johnson & Johnson dropped 1/4, to 36 1/2.
Scitex Corporation, a computer-software company, fell 1 5/8, to 25 3/8, after posting lower earnings -- 52 cents a share, compared with 75 cents for the second quarter -- as a revenue drop in Europe cut the revenue increase for the entire company to 9 percent.
Analysts' recommendations were behind some of the selling. Mirage Resorts dropped 2 1/4, to 47 3/4, when Oppenheimer reduced its rating of the stock to market performer, from buy. Comair Holdings, parent company of Comair Inc., a regional airline, fell as much as 1 1/4 before closing 5/8 lower, at 31, after Alex. Brown lowered its rating to buy from a strong buy, based on price.
But Alex. Brown raised its rating on Aldila Inc., a maker of high-quality golf club shafts, to buy from neutral, and the stock rose 3, to 32 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); DIVIDENDS (79%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); RETAILERS (63%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



298 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: New Chief at Empire Blue Cross Moving Quickly to Reduce Costs

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH

 BODY:
Moving swiftly to reverse years of financial decline, the new head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans to cut costs by 10 percent, largely by reducing its staff through attrition, early retirement and layoffs, a company spokesman said yesterday.
The personnel cuts, as well as possible reductions in the use of rented office space, are intended to save the financially troubled insurer $50 million to $55 million a year, said Howard Rubenstein, a spokesman for Empire, which lost a total of $250 million in 1991 and 1992. 
 The cuts are part of a broad reorganization plan developed by Philip Briggs, who took over as chairman and temporary chief executive in July after months of tumult in Empire's upper management. Mr. Briggs has said that he found the company to be poorly managed and desperately in need of streamlining.
 
A Change in Focus
 The cuts signal a significant break with the company's longtime contention that its problems were not of its own making and could only be solved by help from the state, like rate increases and favorable legislation.
In addition to a financial and management retrenchment, Mr. Briggs plans to shift the company's focus toward "managed care" networks, which limit customers' choices but offer medical care at lower costs. More than 97 percent of Empire's 7.6 million customers now have traditional insurance policies that offer them a virtually unlimited choice of doctors, hospitals and other medical services.
The personnel cuts will come at a particularly difficult time for the company as it begins the transition to managed-care plans, including its health maintenance organization, Healthnet, and its newer and more loosely organized network of doctors and medical providers called Empire Blue Choice. Empire's attempts at managed care have been met with complaints of poor service.
Company officials have not determined how many jobs will be eliminated under the reduction plan, Mr. Rubenstein said. But calculated at an average of $35,000 in annual salary and benefits, the number could be as high as 1,500.
Empire, the state's largest health insurer, has 9,300 employees in locations from New York City to Albany and an annual operating budget of $520 million.
Meanwhile, Albert A. Cardone, who was ousted in May from his $600,000-a-year job as chairman and chief executive, has applied for unemployment compensation. His blustery style and fondness for expensive perquisites made him a lightning rod for criticism from customers whose rates have soared in recent years. Board members voted to dismiss Mr. Cardone after learning that he had kept important information about the company from them and that he was deeply disliked by top managers.
Mr. Cardone, who has homes in New Canaan, Conn., and Florida, filed his unemployment claim in Westchester County last week. He is eligible to receive the New York State maximum of $300 a week for 26 weeks, a total of $7,800.
Empire will not oppose Mr. Cardone's application, Mr. Rubenstein said. When an employee is dismissed, an employer may object under certain circumstances to the payment of benefits.
The matter of Mr. Cardone's pension and severance benefits from Empire, which could be as high as $2 million, has not been resolved. Mr. Cardone's lawyer, Steven Thal, said yesterday that he has had no discussions with Empire about the matter in recent weeks.
 
Devastating Losses
 Mr. Briggs's broad retrenchment of the company follows years of devastating losses and rate increases that averaged as much as 25 percent and forced thousands of New Yorkers to abandon their policies and go without medical insurance. Empire ended 1992 with only $40 million in reserve, an amount far below the $500 million considered safe by state insurance regulators.
Some of the personnel cutbacks will be made this year, but most will come in 1994, Mr. Rubenstein said. According to company projections, Empire will bring its reserves up to more than $100 million by the end of 1993. The $50 million in savings next year would shore up the reserves even further but would still leave the reserves far below the $500 million required by state law.
Mr. Rubenstein said the personnel cuts would be made judiciously. "They're going to make an effort not to impact service," he said. "They will be very carefully done."
 
Service Problems
 Empire officials have acknowledged that if they are to succeed at managed care, they must solve the service problems and complaints that have dogged Healthnet for years.
Mr. Briggs, a retired official of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, said shortly after taking over Empire that he believed the company was poorly organized and inefficient. He said he planned to cut overhead costs, reorganize the outmoded management structure and provide better service to customers.
He also said Empire would no longer seek special help from the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAYOFFS (LABOR); RETIREMENT; LABOR; FINANCES LAYOFFS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); HOSPITALS (70%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (57%); 

PERSON: FRITSCH, JANE; BRIGGS, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



299 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices of Pork Bellies Slide; Coffee and Oil Also Tumble

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Prices of pork bellies plunged yesterday for the sixth consecutive session as receding floodwaters in the Midwest encouraged farmers to dump hogs on the market.
Pork bellies hit a five-month high last week as hog sales were restricted, partly because of floods in the Midwest. Since Friday, producers have sold more hogs, of heavier weight than anticipated, traders said. 
 "The floods disrupted marketings and caused plants to close last month, so sales were light, but everyone is back in business now," said Charlie Andrews, president of Andrews &Associates, a brokerage firm based in Chicago.
Live hogs for October delivery closed 77 cents lower at $44.82 per hundredweight, after falling the $1.50 limit yesterday on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Pork bellies for February delivery closed $1.80 lower at $47.07 per hundredweight, after losing the $2 daily limit yesterday.
On other commodity markets, losses in coffee and oil helped drive the Commodity Research Bureau index to a three-week low. The index tracks the performance of 21 commodities and is a widely used gauge for inflation.
Coffee futures tumbled as concerns about a freeze and crop damage in Brazil subsided. September coffee closed 1.80 cents lower at 74.95 cents a pound on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York.
Oil prices slipped as an OPEC committee recommended that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries maintain its current production levels. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for September delivery closed 3 cents lower at $17.52 a barrel. Heating oil was 0.20 cent lower at 50.01 cents a gallon and unleaded gasoline finished 0.41 cent lower at 53.63 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PORK BELLIES; PRICES; FARMERS; WEATHER; FLOODS PORK & HOG MARKETS (95%); FUTURES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); COFFEE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); PORK (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



300 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rallies on Possibility Of Rate Cuts by Europeans

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The dollar rallied against most European currencies yesterday amid speculation that high unemployment would force several European Community nations to cut interest rates to stimulate economic growth.
In New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.7170 German marks late yesterday, up from 1.6970 marks Monday. 
 Gold prices fell as the strength in the dollar eased concerns about inflation. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery lost $2.40 an ounce, to $380.90. December gold, the most actively traded contract, also fell $2.40 an ounce, to $384.40.
Lower interest rates abroad make dollar-denominated deposits more attractive, bolstering demand for dollars.
Although it fell against the dollar, the German mark gained against weaker European currencies as investors bet that Germany probably would not cut rates as quickly as its neighbors.
 
German Rate Unchanged
 Yesterday, Germany held its key money-market rate unchanged at 6.80 percent, indicating that it might not soon lower its closely watched discount rate. Germany's discount rate stands at 6.75 percent, compared with 3 percent in the United States.
On Monday, the Bank of France trimmed a short-term rate to 9.75 percent, from 10 percent.
"People think there are big interest-rate cuts yet to come in Europe, and the dollar is gaining," said Ezra Zask, president of Ezra Zask Associates Inc., a currency-trading fund in Falls Village, Conn., that has $90 million under management. Mr. Zask said his fund had sold the Danish krone and other weak European currencies, betting that interest rates in those countries would fall.
The dollar slipped slightly against the Japanese yen, falling to 104.70 yen, from 104.91 on Monday. Several traders said they expected the dollar to remain below 105 yen in coming weeks as Japanese exporters continued to sell the dollar when it rose.
Japanese exporters must buy yen with the dollars they earn abroad to return revenue to Japan.
The British pound tumbled against the dollar after the Bank of England, in a quarterly report, said British inflation remained within the bank's targets. That prompted speculation that Britain would also lower rates. In New York, the pound was quoted at $1.4675, its lowest level since June, down from $1.4915 on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY BANK OF ENGLAND (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); DENMARK (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOLD; PRICES; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); US DOLLAR (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



301 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
30-Year Bond Continues to Gain

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Treasury market appeared to take a breather yesterday as the Government began its quarterly auction of notes and bonds.
The yield on the current 7.125 percent 30-year bond due in February 2023 managed to slip to a new 16-year low of 6.44 percent, from 6.46 percent Monday, as the bond continued to rally on special factors, like the sharp reduction in their regular issuance by the Treasury. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, was up 10/32 of a point. 
 But in the rest of the market, from Treasury bills to 10-year notes, yields were mostly higher. The yield on the 6.25 percent 10-year note due in 2003 was up to 5.8 percent, from 5.79 percent, as the price dropped 2/32 .
Traders said the bidding at the auction of $16.7 billion of three-year notes was better than average and even a little stronger than was expected just before the bidding deadline of 1 P.M.
 
 
'Defensive' Action
 Dan Callahan, a managing director at Paine Webber Securities, said it appeared that some investors were buying the three-year note as a "defensive" action, while they waited to see how the other two auctions this week would turn out. He said investors and traders also wanted to get a better idea of what impact the new deficit reduction package, which President Clinton signed yesterday, would have on the economy.
He said that if the tax increases in the deficit reduction plan did slow the economy and kept inflation in check, the Federal Reserve was unlikely to raise interest rates soon. This makes buying 3-year notes, he said, less risky than the 10-year notes and 30-year bonds that were scheduled to be auctioned today and tomorrow, respectively, at a time when their prices are very high and yields very low. The three-year note, he said "is a good place to hide."
The average yield on the three-year notes wound up at 4.49 percent, up from the 4.27 percent average in the May auction but below the 4.73 percent in February and below the 4.69 percent in August a year ago. In late trading after the auction, the yield on the new note, with a coupon of 4.375 percent, was 4.47 percent, another sign of good demand.
The 4.49 percent yield was just above the yield of 4.48 percent the new note was trading at in the pre-auction, or when-issued market, before the trading deadline.
But the auction did not give a lift to the rest of the market. That is partly because the market had rallied on Monday ahead of the three auctions this week.
In addition, it often is hard to gauge what the impact on the market will be until more than one auction is completed.
 
 
Concern Over High Prices
 Going into this auction, although there appeared to be demand, some traders were still worried about buying these new Treasury notes and, especially, the 30-year bond, with the prices at or near recent highs and yields at such low levels.
Howard Steiner, senior vice president at Mitsubishi Securities, said he was worried about buying at the auction at a high price when the market had already had a good rally. "If the market runs up and I pay a lot at the auction," he said, "I have an expensive security after a long run-up." He said he would rather wait for the market to pull back a bit so he could get Treasury notes or bonds at a lower price. That way, he said, he would "have a cheap security in a bull market."
If many dealers find themselves with too many highly priced new issues this week, that could lead to a selloff after the auctions as they try to sell some of the new supply into the secondary market. Mr. Callahan of Paine Webber said such problems could develop with the 10-year note.
For the 30-year bond, it is hard to tell how the auction will go because it seems to be trading in a zone of its own, moving up in price and down in yield far ahead of the rest of the market.
 
 
Fewer 30-Year Bonds
 One big force behind this rally is the fact that the Treasury is cutting the total of new 30-year bonds issued every year and moving from four auctions a year to two. After the auction tomorrow, the next 30-year bond sale will not be until February. And over the next 12 months, the Treasury will sell only about $22 billion of bonds instead of the pace of about $37 billion a year that it had been selling.
The decision to reduce the sale of 30-year bonds grew out of the Clinton Administration's deficit-reduction effort. The reduction in the sale of 30-year bonds is part of a major shift from longer-term borrowing to maturities of three years and under, for which interest rates are lower.
The Administration had originally hoped to cut borrowing costs by $16.4 billion over five years. Its revised estimate is for a savings of $10.8 billion. But the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the savings will be less, totaling just $6.4 billion.
In when-issued or pre-auction trading yesterday, the yield on the 10-year note to be sold today was 5.77 percent, up slightly from 5.76 percent on Monday. The yield on the 30-year bond was 6.37 percent, down from 6.38 percent.
 
Corporate Bonds
 Citicorp sold $350 million of 12-year subordinated notes yesterday as it continued its program of switching lower interest rate debt for older higher interest rate debt that it can now redeem.
So far this year, Citicorp has sold $1.5 billion of new debt to pay off these older issues. The yield on the issue sold yesterday was 6.75 percent, 98 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, over the yield on the new 10-year Treasury note in the when-issued market. The lead underwriter was Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Following are the results of the Treasury's three-year note auction yesterday:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 99.681
Average Yield . . . 4.49%
Low Price . . . 99.681
High Yield . . . 4.49%
High Price . . . 99.709
Low Yield . . . 4.48%
Accepted at low price . . . 68%
Total applied for . . . $45,585,830
Accepted . . . $16,667,915
N.Y. applied for . . . $42,933,009
N.Y. accepted . . . $15,781,769
Noncompetitive . . . $887,000
Interest set at . . . 4.375%
 
The three-year notes mature on Aug. 15, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields on selected Treasury securities (Source: Technical Data); "3-Year Treasury Notes" shows their average yields from '89 to '93 (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); INTEREST RATES (63%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



302 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: 2.8% Growth Predicted for '94

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 10

 BODY:
A newsletter, Blue Chip Economic Indicators, reported today that the consensus of 51 economists is for 2.8 percent economic growth next year.
The findings of its survey, taken this month, compared with an annualized growth rate of 3.1 percent projected for the current July-September quarter and 3.3 percent for the final three months of the year. 
 The newsletter's editor, Robert J. Eggert, said many of the economists did not think that the full effects of the higher gasoline and income taxes in a law signed today by President Clinton would be felt until 1994, permitting faster growth now.
Thirty-six of the 51 analysts questioned lowered their economic forecast for all of 1993 since the previous poll, taken in July. The latest forecast projected economic growth of 2.5 percent, down one-tenth of a percentage point from July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CHIP ECONOMIC INDICATORS

ORGANIZATION: BLUE CHIP ECONOMIC INDICATORS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (88%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



303 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Outlook Is Uncertain on Revenue Sharing by Owners

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Richard Ravitch, the architect of baseball's plan to increase revenue sharing among the 28 clubs, can count on a certain number of votes for adoption of some sort of plan. But it's the votes he isn't certain of that will determine the outcome of the owners' meeting in Kohler, Wis., that begins today.
The critical meeting will continue tomorrow and perhaps Friday as the owners try to reach agreement on a plan that would take effect only if the players then agreed to a salary cap. Because the players are opposed to a cap, the owners may be meeting in vain, even if they adopt a plan. 
 Ravitch, the owners' chief labor executive, presumably will open the meeting with debate on a proposal he recently sent to the clubs. Although details of the plan have been kept secret under a confidentiality agreement enforced by a $100,000 fine, some management people have talked about the general outline.
 
Looking to a Formula
 The plan, they have said, centers on a formula linking total player payroll to total local revenue. The percentage of local revenue each club would be required to put into the payroll pool would be determined by the amount of money needed to fund the payroll after national revenue is used and by the amount of total local revenue. Other factors apparently could add to or subtract from the percentage.
"The discussion," one management person said, "will be about whether each team puts in a different percentage or the same percentage. Will there be a limit on the high end as to how much each team has to put in, or no limit no matter how high the revenues go? That's what the big debate will be."
Listening closely to the debate will be Jerry McMorris, chairman of the Colorado Rockies, an expansion team that has become an instant large-revenue club, surpassing the economic position of many established franchises. Holding one of the uncertain votes, McMorris epitomized the dilemma facing the wealthier clubs.
"I'm open-minded," McMorris said by telephone from Denver. "Our club understands the need for this industry to get back on its feet, so we're very concerned with the long-term economic future of baseball. All that being said, we have a responsibility to the shareholders and the fans of the Colorado Rockies, so we have to look out for our own interest also. We paid what we thought was a large fee to get into this, and here we are one year later with what could be a tremendous economic change in baseball."
 
Going Beyond $95 Million?
 The Rockies and the Florida Marlins each paid $95 million for membership in the National League. The group that made the winning bid for the Baltimore Orioles in last week's court auction is paying $173 million to get into baseball. They are among the clubs that would not be thrilled to have to toss millions more per year into the revenue-sharing pot.
Before the Oriole auction, bidders for the team were told to figure that they would have to pay about $8.7 million from their local revenue if a plan was adopted. Larry Lucchino, the Orioles' president, will represent the club at the Kohler meeting, and even if he were to abstain, given the circumstances, his move would be tantamount to a negative vote because 21 votes are needed to approve a plan.
When Ravitch embarked more than a year ago on the task of persuading the owners that a new revenue-sharing plan was needed, the economic differences were viewed as large-market clubs versus small-market clubs. Now, though, the labels more realistically are high-revenue clubs and low-revenue clubs.
Denver isn't considered a large market, but the Rockies do have large revenues from their attendance, which will exceed 4 million this season. The Orioles are in a similar position because of the fans who have flocked to Camden Yards. Other clubs classified in the high-revenue group are the two New York teams, the two Chicago teams, Los Angeles, Toronto, Atlanta, Florida and Boston. To get a plan adopted, Ravitch almost certainly will need 4 votes from that group of 11 clubs.
On the other hand, if the plan is so watered down to induce the high-revenue clubs to vote for it, might some low-revenue clubs rebel, feeling that in this case something isn't necessarily better than nothing? Or would they take what they could get?
 
Selig Won't Speculate
 Going into the meetings, no one was predicting the outcome.
"I don't want to speculate," said Bud Selig of the low-revenue Milwaukee Brewers, the man running the major leagues in the absence of a commissioner. "There's been a lot of work done, a lot of thought given to all this, an enormous amount of time spent by lot of people. For an industry that never shared financial information, we've really done a lot of that. So all the necessary steps have been taken. What will happen, I don't know."
Ravitch, one club executive said, is not going into the meeting thinking his proposal is the one the clubs should accept. "He acknowledges this is a starting point," the executive said. "Clearly, there's a lot of work to be done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); WISCONSIN, USA (72%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLORADO ROCKIES (74%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (74%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (75%); WISCONSIN, USA (72%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL SPORTS REVENUES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; RAVITCH, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



304 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: TRACK AND FIELD;
Young Hurdler Hustling, Both On and Off Track

 BODY:
Wanted: Part-time job for recent graduate of Georgia Tech. Qualifications: Degree in mechanical engineering, with a specialty in biomedical technology. Also able to run on the heels of the world-record holder Kevin Young in the 400-meter hurdles.
Derrick Adkins is not your typical 23-year-old unemployed college graduate. He is ranked second in the United States in the 400-meter hurdles, behind Young, the Olympic champion. Like Young, Adkins is on his way to the world championships, which get under way Saturday in Stuttgart, Germany, and is aiming for the 1996 Olympics. 
 In the meantime, he's looking for part-time work in his field, concerned about preparing for his future after track. He's even considering medical or graduate school, so he wants to work in engineering while he trains.
It's a lot to handle, but Adkins seems capable.
 
Born to Run
 He grew up in West Hempstead, L.I., and his running career took off at Malverne High. His father, Earl, a hurdler at Morgan State in the 1960's, coached his son, who showed early glimpses of extraordinary talent and then grew into a 6-foot-3-inch frame.
"His build is exceptional -- high cut legs, very long for his height," said Grover Hinsdale, the track coach atGeorgia Tech. "He is a very graceful runner with exceptional leg speed, very fluid, fast turnover. You're either born with that or you're not."
Hinsdale recruited Adkins, who was seeking a school with a solid academic reputation and a warmer training climate. Adkins has grown to love Atlanta and has made it his permanent home.
 
Winning Notice
 Adkins showed improvement each year at Georgia Tech, finishing in the top six in the N.C.A.A. championships his freshman and sophomore years. In his junior year -- 1991 -- he finished second, but 1992 was a disaster. He was on his way to victory but fell after the seventh hurdle. He got up and kept running, but finished eighth.
That's the way Adkins is -- he gets up and keeps running. He has not been touted as the next Edwin Moses. He doesn't hold any national records. Gold medals at the 1991 and 1993 World University Games are a few of his highlights. He ran the third leg in a 45.0 split for Tech's national champion 1,600-meter relay at the 1992 N.C.A.A. championships. Running on a sprained ankle, he failed to qualify for the 1992 Olympics, placing fourth.
But the competition still keeps a lookout for him.
 
Is His Best Yet to Come?
 Samuel Matete of Zambia, a former world champion, has long been his nemesis. Matete, who ran for Auburn, has the third fastest time in the world, behind Young and Moses, and beat Adkins at the 1991 N.C.A.A. championships. Adkins recently beat Matete at the World University Games in Buffalo -- the only time he has beaten him. Although Adkins had an unspectacular time of 49.35, he was running in a strong wind. "I would like to run 48 flat or 47.9, and if I can do that I'd like to in Stuttgart," Adkins said. "It's going to take a perfect race, perfect conditions."
Young's world record is 46.78. Adkins's best time is 48.69, accomplished in June in the United States championships in Eugene, Ore., where he finished second to Young (47.69) and qualified for the world championships.
"I'm satisfied right now with the way I'm running," Adkins said. "Kevin Young is on another level. He wins races by pretty good margins."
Hinsdale thinks Adkins will command respect.
"I'm not saying he can beat Young, but he is getting stronger," Hinsdale said. "He has a chance to be right in the mix of it. The timing should be perfect for him to peak."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derrick Adkins, the second-ranked 400-meter hurdler in the United States, has shown considerable resiliency. (Rick Stewart/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRACK AND FIELD; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TRACK & FIELD (91%); RUNNING (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); ATHLETES (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); RANKINGS (71%); 

PERSON: ADKINS, DERRICK MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



305 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: A Brighter Day for Legal Services

 BODY:
Lawyer-bashing is an old story for the underpaid, overworked attorneys who represent the poor in more than 300 poverty law offices under the federally funded Legal Services Corporation. For eight years the Reagan Administration pummeled the program with abuse and tried to kill it, and for four years the Bush Administration neglected it. Now President Clinton has wisely chosen a new board of directors committed to breathing renewed life into the program.
Some of the 11 new directors are veterans of the bashings Ronald Reagan administered as a Governor and President. Others are bar leaders who lobbied to gain the organized bar's strong endorsement for the program. Still others are allies of President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton, who headed the board during the Carter Administration. All deserve swift confirmation when the Senate returns next month. 
 The hostility in high places stemmed from the audacity of Legal Services attorneys in challenging important officials and powerful business and agricultural interests. Earlier legal aid societies had been content to bail out debtors and postpone foreclosure dates. The idea of suing governors for failing to obey laws designed to help the poor, or growers for ignoring health standards on their farms, alarmed the comfortable in many states.
When President Nixon attacked the legal services program begun under the war on poverty, Congress created the corporation with Presidentially appointed directors subject to Senate confirmation. But Presidents Reagan and Bush packed the board with enemies of the program by issuing recess appointments that bypassed the confirmation process in every year but 1985.
Once confirmed, the new board will face formidable problems. Its budget of less than $400 million has lagged behind inflation and the increasing population of poor people. The directors must also seek renewed authorization from Congress, which since 1980 has withheld a new charter, partly because the program's leaders so often sought to undermine and even abolish it.
Those are impressive problems but they'll be easier to confront when the board of directors is in the hands of supporters of the program and its lawyers rather than the bashers of bygone years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (92%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL SERVICES CORP SERVICE CORPORATION INTERNATIONAL EUROPE CONTINENTALE (92%); SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (92%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL SERVICES CORP LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LEGAL AID (93%); LEGAL SERVICES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); LOBBYING (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); BUDGETS (69%); FORECLOSURE (67%); AGRICULTURE (67%); POPULATION SIZE (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



306 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Region Stands To Gain Little In New Budget

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Aug. 10

 BODY:
New Jersey, New York and Connecticut will be among the states that benefit least, while paying the most, under the economic plan that President Clinton signed into law today.
Economists, regional planners and executives have spent the last weeks poring over details of the Clinton budget and breaking the numbers down to suit their particular needs. Their calculations show that the three states rank low on nearly every measurement of new spending intended to boost the economy. 
 At the same time, because Connecticut, New Jersey and New York have many wealthy residents, they will pay a disproportionately high share of the income-tax increases.
 
Figuring Pluses and Minuses
 As home to some of the nation's major businesses and a huge restaurant industry, the region also is much more apt to feel a greater impact than other regions from the less publicized parts of the Federal budget, from the thousands of businesses that face a percentage point increase in the corporate income-tax rate to a sizable cut in business entertainment and meal deductions.
But if the plan works and the economy does revive, they say, it would push the Northeast ahead of other regions because of the large real-estate market here and a surge in the stock and bond markets.
"In the short term we may suffer more of an economic drag in the Northeast," said H. Claude Shostal, president of the New York City-based Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit organization that promotes planning for a 31-county area in the three states. "But long term, I think the plan is tremendously important to the economic health of the country and the region."
"The thing that we don't know is exactly how the pluses and the minuses offset each other," said Nicholas S. Perna, chief economist for Shawmut National Corporation, a bank holding company with its corporate operations divided between Hartford and Boston.
A central element in President Clinton's budget is an economic growth plan that the White House has said would add 8.3 million jobs nationwide over the next four years and funnel billions of investment dollars into states for schools, worker training, housing, bridges and roads, health care and research, tax credits for the working poor and tax incentives for business investment.
The Clinton plan calls for Connecticut to receive $1.44 billion, generating an estimated 39,320 new jobs, New Jersey to receive $3.55 billion, generating 94,614 new jobs and New York to receive $8.64 billion, generating 173,337 new jobs. Economists cautioned that the job estimates, while sounding precise, should be viewed as rough guides subject to political influence.
Kerry Sutten, a regional economist with the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition, said, under the plan, the region ranks near the bottom in per capita Federal investments and in projected job growth.
 
Projected Job Gains
 "Some have argued that the Clinton plan is ignoring the Northeast and the Midwest," Mr. Sutten said. "The per capita investments going to the Northeast and Midwest are much lower than the South and the West."
Mr. Sutten said the increased spending per capita would place New York 41st on the list at $47.71 a person, New Jersey 45th with $45.55 a person and Connecticut at 49th with 43.86 a person. Rhode Island was 50th with $43.58. Mr. Sutten said he has not figured out how the White House arrived at the investment levels.
Projected job gains for the three states range from 2.60 percent for New Jersey, to 2.41 percent for Connecticut and 2.20 percent for New York, each of them below the 3.16 percent job gain projected for the Northeast as a whole and well behind the 9.26 percent job growth for the South or 11.22 percent gain for the West. The Midwest fared worst among the regions at 2.77 percent projected job gain.
The new Federal budget also sets a 36 percent tax rate for couples with taxable incomes of $140,000 and individuals at $115,000, an increase from 31 percent that is most likely to have a more concentrated effect on New York, New Jersey and Connecticut than any other region.
"We are going to pay more than our fair share largely because residents of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut per capita are among the wealthier people in the nation," said Mr. Shostal, the Regional Plan Association executive. "We have got more people who make more money."
Mr. Perna, the chief economist for the Shawmut banking group, said the higher tax rates for the region's wealthier residents was less of a problem than other parts of the budget.
"We tend to focus too much on income and not on wealth," he said. "At the same time that people are mentally recalling their income taxes, the worth of all their stocks and property is going up, too."
Experts said that other budget changes will deliver an above average blow to the region, especially in Manhattan, because of its concentration of restaurants.
The Clinton plan reduces to 50 percent from 85 percent the amount of business entertainment and meal deductions a company may deduct from its taxes.
 
Impact of Gas Tax
 "This is going to further destroy our tavern and restaurant business in New York City, and as a matter of fact, all across the nation," said Tom Slattery, a former president of United Registered and Liquor Dealers Inc., an association of 500 Manhattan restaurants and bars.
Mr. Slattery said that almost a third of the association's membership went out of business between 1987 and 1991 after President Reagan in 1987 cut the deduction for business entertainment and meal deductions to 85 percent from 100 percent.
"When that happened, companies started feeding their employees in-house and they encouraged their sales force to dine in-house and thereby wrote it off as a different tax expense," Mr. Slattery said.
In general, residents of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut will fare better than most on the 4.3 cent a gallon increase in the Federal gasoline tax, which will increase the tax to 18.4 cents a gallon, because their gasoline consumption is less.
"We tend to use mass transit more and drive shorter distances to and from work," Mr. Shostal said, "so the gas tax will have less impact on us."
By dividing the total amount of petroleum used in the state by the numbers of households, the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition compiled a state-by-state breakdown on the cost of the gasoline increase.
The cost per household would be an additional $43 a year in New York, $52 in Connecticut and $63 in New Jersey.
The national figure was $76 a year more to cover the increased tax. The state figures ranged from a low of $47 for Rhode Island to $150 for Wyoming. The District of Columbia had the nation's lowest projected increase at $34.
The Regional Plan Association has advocated that the local, state and Federal governments raise gasoline taxes even higher to pay for services.
"Gasoline is still the cheapest liquid in our society," Mr. Shostal said. "We were sorry to see the gas taxes as low as they were."
That position has placed the association squarely at odds with the American Automobile Association.
"It just seems that the motorist is the fall guy any way you go," said Max D. Winget, a spokesman for A.A.A. of Central New Jersey.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the impact of the Federal economic plan on the New York region misstated the per capita spending for four states. The per capita spending for New York would be $477.07 (not $47.71), for New Jersey $455.51 (not $45.55), for Connecticut $439.50 (not $43.86), and for Rhode Island $435.82 (not $43.58).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; INCOME TAXES ; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BONDS (68%); BOND MARKETS (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (61%); RANKINGS (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993



307 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
U.S. PRESSES SERBS TO WITHDRAW
The United States intensified pressure on the Bosnian Serbs by explicitly warning that they could face a NATO attack unless they moved quickly to abandon strategic mountains around Sarajevo. A1
 
HOW BIG A SERBIAN WITHDRAWAL?
Under the threat of air strikes, Serbian leaders have promised repeatedly to withdraw their mountain forces, but confusion continued over the extent of the withdrawal. A10 

MUSLIMS BOYCOTT PEACE TALKS
Bosnian Muslims boycotted peace talks again, but evidence that Serbs might be withdrawing raised hopes that talks would resume. A10
 
Britain and Sweden are to evacuate 41 Bosnians. A13
 
EUROPE'S YOUTH FEELS EUROPEAN
Europe's young men and women, struggling to find work in a recession, have reason to feel pessimistic. Yet, despite the gloom, they also offer proof that a new Europe is in the making and that they consider it natural to feel European. A1
 
GERMANY CUTTING BENEFITS
Struggling to cope with the rebuilding of eastern Germany, the Government announced plans to make its first postwar cuts in unemployment and welfare payments. A3
 
U.N. ABOUT TO LEAVE CAMBODIA
With dozens of lives lost and billions of dollars spent in the cause of ending a generation of suffering in Cambodia, the largest United Nations peacekeeping operation ever is preparing to shut down. A6
 
MEXICAN PLANT WORRIES TEXAS
A $1.6 billion sale to private investors of a huge thermoelectric power plant in northern Mexico has been thrown into doubt by concerns that pollution from the plant could blow over the border into Big Bend National Park in Texas. A7
 
Rio Journal: Brazil's ambivalent attitude toward homosexuals. A4
 
Monument to Berlin Wall victims hits a snag. A14
 
Israel recommends that Demjanjuk be released. A15
 
National A16-23, B10-11
 
NEW CHAIRMAN OF JOINT CHIEFS
President Clinton named Army Gen. John Shalikashvili, a Polish native and the grandson of a Czarist general, to be Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A1
 
MARINE MISSTEPS
A Marine Corps plan to phase out married recruits was reported, but Defense Secretary Les Aspin quickly reversed the policy. A1
 
John Shalikashvili has been preparing for war all his adult life. A22
 
Clinton backs an anti-crime bill that tightens gun control laws. A20
 
ART IS A TAXPAYER'S $10 BILL
In the scrub-covered hills of Encinitas, Calif., just north of the Mexican border, three experimental artists supported by a Federal arts grant are handing out crisp $10 bills to illegal immigrants. A1
 
FOSTER'S FILES ARE REMOVED
The White House said the files of Vincent Foster, the White House lawyer who committed suicide, had been removed from his office in recent days and dispersed to other Presidential legal advisers. A16
 
ANTI-GAY RESOLUTION IN GEORGIA
Cobb County in suburban Atlanta passed a resolution condemning homosexuality and is considering another that would hold county-financed arts groups to "community, family-oriented standards." A16
 
PREGNANCY AND ARTHRITIS
Researchers now believe that pregnant women experience relief from rheumatoid arthritis because genetic differences between the fetus and the woman set off immune responses in the woman. A23
 
Female doctors are more likely than males to order Pap smears. A17
 
NEW LABELS FOR MEAT
The Agriculture Department unveiled labels with cooking and handling instructions that all raw meat and poultry will carry by the middle of October. A18
 
POPE ASSAILS INDIANS' TREATMENT
Pope John Paul II criticized injustice against indigenous people "from the Alaskan peninsula to Tierra del Fuego" and urged a new redistribution of wealth between the America's rich north and poor south. B10
 
The Pope's love-hate relationship with the United States. B10
 
Clinton and the Pope present a security nightmare for Denver. B10
 
The jury now has the bank fraud case of Robert A. Altman. B11
 
Metro Digest B1
 
NEW YORK SHIFTS CLINICS
In a major bureaucratic overhaul aimed at reducing costs and unifying New York City's health clinics with its hospitals, the Dinkins administration will turn the management of dozens of city clinics over to the public corporation that owns the municipal hospitals. A1
 
HISTORY OF INCOMPETENCE
The New York City Board of Education's asbestos task force has a history of incompetence that stretches beyond the mismanaged federally mandated inspection of public schools, city investigators and board officials say. A1
 
WOOING A GROUP OF VOTERS
The two leading mayoral candidates in New York City are pursuing a certain stripe of skeptical, independent-minded voters who will be important in determining the outcome of a mayoral election that is widely expected to be close. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-11
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
New way to validate Rembrandts. C13
N.Y.U. to manage New-York Historical Society library. C13
British Library, 31 years in the
making. C13
Stolen art recovered. C20
Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame names its director. C16
Music: Notes C13
Books: "Judy Garland," by David Shipman. C18
 
Sports B12-19
 
Obituaries D21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
The clues left by Vincent Foster.
Russia-Japan ties on the rocks.
Child health: now, get it right.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: The 28th piece.
Elizabeth K. Hersh and Susan G. Lazar: Politics didn't kill Foster.
Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi: Relax? Relax and do what?
Warren M. Hern: The Pope and my right to life.
 
Bridge C14
 
Chronicle B10
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BOYCOTTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); LAWYERS (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); RELIGION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); POWER PLANTS (70%); DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); SUICIDE (63%); GUN CONTROL (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



308 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Art Dollars for Me, $10 for You, $10 for You

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ENCINITAS, Calif., Aug. 10

 BODY:
In the scrub-covered hills north of the Mexican border, three experimental artists supported by a Federal arts grant are handing out crisp $10 bills to illegal immigrants.
To David Avalos, one of the artists, the act of giving the money is a work of art and a political statement about "the interaction of physical space with intellectual space and civic space." 
 To Domingo Santiago, an illegal day laborer murmuring seriously with his companions as the artists explained their project, "It's strange, because people don't usually give us money."
 
'Outrageous' Giveaway
 To Representative Randy (Duke) Cunningham, Republican of California, the giveaway is "outrageous."
"I can scarcely imagine a more contemptuous use of taxpayers' hard-earned dollars," the San Diego lawmaker wrote the National Endowment for the Arts, which paid some of the costs of an exhibit that includes Mr. Avalos's work.
The befuddlement, the anger and the general hubbub that the handouts have stirred here in the San Diego area are also apparently part of the project, "Arte-Reembolso/Art Rebate," in which the artists are giving away most of a $5,000 grant.
The artists say they are trying to demonstrate the illegal aliens' role in the economy at a moment when public anger is rising over the cost to taxpayers of government services for those immigrants.
The moment the aliens received the bills, each signed by all three artists, some hurried to a nearby food truck, recycling their artworks into the economy by exchanging them for tacos and soft drinks.
"I don't think it's an accident that the piece happened right now," said Kathryn Kanjo, assistant curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art inSan Diego, which sponsored the work.
A spokesman for the endowment, Josh Dare, said the agency had not known about the project in advance or financed it specifically, and added, "These three artists are very adept at pushing people's buttons."
Mr. Dare said he expected the giveaway to be an issue next month at confirmation hearings for Jane Alexander, who was nominated last week to head the endowment.
 
Politicians' Response
 Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who has led attacks on the agency for financing such controversial projects as an exhibit of Robert Mapplethorpe's homoerotic photographs depicting sadomasochism, did not reply to a request for comment on the $10 handouts.
In recent days, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, responding to the mood of their constituents, have visited the border and called for major steps to keep out illegal aliens. They slip across the border by the thousands every day.
Saying the country is "under siege" from the illegal aliens, the Governor said this week that the state should not provide them with such services as education and health care. In a letter to President Clinton, Mr. Wilson called for a constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to illegal aliens' children born in this country.
The artists -- Mr. Avalos, Louis Hock and Elizabeth Sisco -- insist that the aliens contribute to the economy through their work and the sales taxes they pay.
"It's interesting that it is the politicians and policy makers who choose to be irrational and that it's up to the artists to be rational," Mr. Avalos said.
 
Comedy in High Seriousness
 That responsibility seems to be never far from the artists' minds. They go about their business with the quiet seriousness of high comedy.
"We're going to do a little work here," Mr. Hock announced the other morning, alighting from his car at the edge of a strawberry field and approaching a group of illegal aliens who wait in the area to get work. As Mr. Hock shuffled through a stack of neatly numbered envelopes, the aliens shrank back, uncertain whether these were Federal immigration agents and the moment had come to run.
But the sight of the money held them. And soon, ready to accept the incomprehensible, they were gravely nodding as the artists handed them fliers that explained, in English and Spanish: "This $10 bill is part of an art project that intends to return tax dollars to taxpayers, particularly 'undocumented taxpayers.' The art rebate acknowledges your role as a vital player in an economic community indifferent to national borders."
As if to confuse the recipients still more as they kept a wary eye on the road for immigration agents, the fliers explained that the handout was supported by Federal and local government agencies.
The project received its grant from the San Diego museum as part of an exhibition called "La Frontera/The Border." The artists say that $500 of the grant is going into the costs of producing the fliers and photocopying the individual bills for their records, and that the remainder is going directly into aliens' pockets.
 
Part of $250,000 Project
 "The Border" is, in turn, one in a series of exhibits in a four-year project at the museum called "Dos Ciudades/ Two Cities," which received a $250,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Arts. That amount is being matched 3 to 1 by the museum, with donations coming from the State of California, the City of San Diego and the Rockefeller Foundation. The museum is sponsoring "Two Cities" in partnership with the Centro Cultural de la Raza, a Hispanic cultural organization in San Diego.
Given the variety of sources and types of donations and the fact that fund-raising for "Two Cities" is continuing, Hugh Davies, the museum's director, said it was impossible to say what part of each $10 bill was from Washington.
In addition, he said, it was important to note that the national endowment financed only the four-year umbrella project and had no specific knowledge of the "Art Rebate" giveaway.
When the three artists were invited to participate, Mr. Davies said, "The N.E.A. had no knowledge, nor did we for that matter, of the specifics of what their commission might be."
Mr. Davies said the museum strongly endorsed the artists' freedom of expression. "With respect to the content of the work and whether we think it is a good art work or a bad art work," he said, "we really have no position on that."
 
Sharp Division
 Opinions on that question have been sharply divided in the San Diego area, where the project has been the subject of letters-to-the-editors' columns of newspapers.
"I think it's horrific what they are doing," said Garuda Terra, the owner of La Petite Boulangerie, where the artists decompressed over cups of coffee after a morning's work. "Why not pass out $10 to just anybody who pays taxes?"
But then, perhaps realizing that by her own reaction she had become part of the artwork's intellectual and civic space, and even possibly at her bakery, part of its physical space, she added: "But that's what they want. That's what makes it wonderful. If it hits enough nerves, it can make people respond."
At the endowment, Mr. Dare said that because of the recent controversy the agency was expediting a routine examination of how its money had been spent in the San Diego project.
The creators of "Art Rebate" are more than ready to be audited. Each new $10 bill, as crisp and vivid as a work of hyperrealism, is signed for by its recipient, sometimes with an X.
 
An Alien's Story
 At the edge of the strawberry field the other day, Mr. Santiago said he had been working illegally in the United States for 12 years. His 17-year-old son Jose, who has worked with him for three years, is in 11th grade at a local high school. Even working only two to four days a week at odd jobs, and earning $4.25 an hour, Mr. Santiago said he can make double or triple what he could back home. He tries to spend as little as he can on food and shelter and send the remainder to his family in Mexico.
As the three artists packed away their documents, Mr. Santiago and his companions had already gathered around two elderly women who had arrived to pass out religious tracts.
The men looked up and waved as the artists drove away, and one called out: "Come back soon. We'll be here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eager for $10 bills, illegal aliens form a line next to David Avalos, second from right, and Louis Hock, who call the gifts art. (pg. A1); Supported by a Federal arts grant, three artists are handing out $10 bills to illegal immigrants as a project about "the interaction of physical space with intellectual space and civic space." Elizabeth Sisco, right, in glasses, one of the artists, found willing participants near Encinitas, Calif. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times) (pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (SAN DIEGO) ; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (SAN DIEGO) ; NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO ; CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ART; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ; FEDERAL AID (US) ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (64%); GOVERNORS (63%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; AVALOS, DAVID; HOCK, LOUIS; SISCO, ELIZABETH DIANNE FEINSTEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



309 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Demjanjuk Charges Opposed
An Israeli official said John Demjanjuk, who was acquitted of being "Ivan the Terrible," should not face new charges. Page A15.
 
Germany Cuts Benefits
 Struggling with the rebuilding of eastern Germany, Bonn made its first postwar cuts in unemployment benefits and welfare payments. Page A3.
 
Immigrants' Detention Cited
 Immigrants are being detained by the Government in Manhattan under inadequate conditions, the American Civil Liberties Union says. Page B1.
 
Pope Urges Sharing Wealth
 John Paul II, in Mexico, criticized injustice against the indigenous people of the Americas and urged a redistribution of wealth. Page B10.
 
Drug Industry Job Cuts
 Johnson & Johnson plans to eliminate 3,000 jobs worldwide this year, joining a surge of cost-cutting by companies in the health care field. Page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (90%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (70%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (90%); UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (87%); 

PERSON: JOHN DEMJANJUK (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



310 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Pope's New America

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 11

 BODY:
For decades, Popes viewed the United States as a steadfast ally against Communism. Now, as Pope John Paul II makes his first visit to the United States since the end of the cold war, that view has changed. For the Pope, the United States remains an indispensable part of his vision of a new world order, but maybe an unreliable one.
The Pope, who arrives here on Thursday and will meet with President Clinton in the afternoon, has said he loves the United States. But he clearly hates some things about it: liberal policies on abortion and what he regards as a culture that is increasingly self-absorbed and self-destructive. He admires American political institutions and recognizes the power of the American economy, but he has deep doubts about whether this country can measure up to what he sees as its potential and its responsibilities. 
 Despite the shared opposition to Communism and the close, sometimes covert, cooperation between Rome and Washington in keeping alive the dissident movement in Poland and elsewhere in Eastern Europe, John Paul has not hesitated to chastise American foreign policy. Before and during the Persian Gulf war, he repeatedly suggested that American actions in the region were precipitous or excessive.
 
Change in Emphasis
 "The Holy Father does not want a single-power world with the United States dominant," said the Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, a former international-affairs adviser to American Roman Catholic bishops. "But he also does not want the United States to 'come home' and worry only about health care."
"The old conversations between Popes and American Presidents would be about arms control, avoiding war and maybe Central America," said Father Hehir, who is now pastor of the Cambridge, Mass., parish near Harvard University, where he teaches. "The new one will reflect the Pope's concern about the future of international institutions like the United Nations and other multilateral agencies and whether the United States will provide the resources and the legitimacy essential for them to develop."
But the Pope's hopes for American leadership are countered by his doubts about American culture.
"He is worried that Americans are losing the strong and firm moral character they once had," said Michael Novak, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute whose writings in defense of capitalism are widely believed to have influenced the Pope's encyclical "Centesimus Annus" ("100 Years") in 1991.
 
Critique of United States
 In 1987, when John Paul arrived in the United States and met President Ronald Reagan in Miami, the Pope immediately thanked God for the American Constitution but then admonished "Americans who have received so much in freedom and prosperity and human enrichment" to share those blessings with the rest of the world. "A new birth of freedom" was required, he said, a "freedom to exercise responsibility."
John Paul's frequent laments about materialism, preoccupation with consumer goods, abortion and the breakdown of traditional sexual norms seem particularly aimed at the United States. Father Hehir and Mr. Novak agreed that the Pope's image of the United States was influenced by reports of sexual promiscuity and sexual explicitness in movies, television and magazines. The Pope, Father Hehir said, fears that American culture is "a culture without restraint or limits."
But the Pope is also known to have been deeply impressed by the religious feeling shown by Americans during his 1987 visit to six cities. Church leaders who spoke with him after the trip said he was surprised and moved by the crowds' reverence during worship services.
 
Ties With Presidents
 This is the Pope's third visit to the United States, not counting brief stops in Puerto Rico in 1981 and Alaska in 1984, and his fifth meeting with an American President. Papal meetings with Presidents go back to 1919, when Woodrow Wilson met Benedict XV at the Vatican; the first President to meet with a Pope in the United States was Lyndon B. Johnson, who greeted Paul VI in New York in October 1965.
But John Paul has had far more exposure to the United States than any other Pope. As Archbishop of Cracow, he traveled here twice before his election in 1978, stretching out a 1966 visit for several months. Nonetheless, opinions vary on how well he understands this country, especially its pluralism of faiths and ideas.
Mr. Novak maintained that the Pope was much more pro-American than many other leading figures in the Vatican who, he said, tended to suspect American capitalism and to disdain American culture as superficial.
 
'Explorer for the World'
 The Pope's critical attitude toward the United States might be more apparent today, Mr. Novak said, simply because "John Paul's attention is moving from the political and economic questions of the cold-war period, where the United States was a model, to the cultural questions, the cultural ecology, if you will, of the new world order."
"And that," Mr. Novak added, "is where he especially thinks the United States is vulnerable. The Pope sees the United States as an explorer for the world, for both good and ill, often for good in terms of free institutions and for ill or worse in terms of the output of Hollywood."
Father Hehir said something similar but believed that for all the Pope's concern about the internal condition of the United States the Vatican never loses its focus on the possible American role in vital international areas, like abetting a settlement between Israel and its Arab neighbors.
"The Vatican view," Father Hehir said, "is less concerned about whether it likes the United States or not than about the fact that it remains an indispensable force for change in the world."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (73%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); ITALY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (92%); RELIGION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DESERT STORM (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); POLITICS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); ABORTION (55%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II); STEINFELS, PETER RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



311 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: POPE CELEBRATES INDIGENOUS PEOPLE

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: IZAMAL, Mexico, Aug. 11

 BODY:
On the eve of his first meeting with President Clinton, Pope John Paul II today criticized injustice against indigenous people "from the Alaskan peninsula to Tierra del Fuego" and urged a new redistribution of wealth between the American continent's rich north and poor south.
The Pope arrived in this small town of 20,000 people in the Yucatan peninsula from Jamaica on the 60th overseas tour of his papacy. He is to travel on Thursday to meet President Clinton and celebrate World Youth Day in Denver, Colo. That visit is expected to illuminate fundamental differences between the Vatican and many American Catholics over artificial birth control, abortion and the ordination of women as priests. 
While the Pope repeated his conservative views on those issues in Jamaica on Tuesday, urging young people in particular to avoid what he called sexual misbehavior, he focused principally today on depicting the church as a defender and protector of indigenous Americans and on promoting a new economic order in the wake of the cold war.
"From Izamal, I want to launch an appeal," the Pope said, "to developed societies to overcome economic systems oriented solely toward profit and seek real and effective solutions to the serious problems that afflict wide sectors of the continent's population."
 
Unusual Reference to the U.S.
 The speech echoed other forthright denunciations of what the Pope sees as social and economic injustice in Latin America, but was unusual in its inclusion of the United States just one day before the meeting with President Clinton. While Vatican officials said there was no formal agenda for the 45-minute meeting in Denver, the Pope's comments seem intended in part to insure that social and economic disparity were discussed.
"My message is not only for those present here, but goes beyond the geographic limits of the Yucatan to embrace all the indigenous communities, ethnicities and peoples of America, from the Alaskan peninsula to Tierra del Fuego," he declared.
Along with Latin American indigenous groups he also listed Apaches and Eskimos as examples of the people he was talking about.
"My presence among you is meant as a decisive support for your right to space for your culture, your lives and your societies, as individuals and as ethnic groups," he told 4,000 people in a heat-baked church square painted canary yellow and white -- the Vatican colors -- for the occasion.
 
Symbolic Venue for Speech
 The Pope chose an unusual and possibly symbolic venue for his speech -- a Christian fortress-church on the ruins of a Maya temple that seemed eloquent with the overlay of alien faith that came with Columbus's Christianizing journeys five centuries ago.
"From the first steps of evangelization, the church was the untiring defender of the Indians, the protector of their cultural values and the promoter of humanity against the abuses of unscrupulous colonizers," the Pope declared, listing by name missionaries who had protested against the conquistadors' injustices.
The question of the church's historic role is still uncomfortable for some in Latin America who accuse missionaries of sheltering behind Spanish and Portuguese conquerors to enforce conversions among people who already practiced their own religions. Today, according to the Vatican's figures, some 52 million Indians live in Latin American countries, and the biggest group -- more than 25 million -- is in Mexico, forming 29 percent of its population.
Catholic bishops have frequently accused Latin American governments of discriminating against indigenous people and taking their land and rights, a theme the Pope pursued today.
 
'Shadow of Sin' on America
 "Unfortunately, it needs to be said that the richness of your culture has not always been duly appreciated, and neither were your rights as people and peoples always respected," the Pope said.
"The shadow of sin falls on America, too, in the destruction of your artistic and cultural creations and in the violence to which you were many times subjected," he said.
The Catholic Church, he said, "supports you in your legitimate aspirations and just claims."
"I know from many indigenous brothers and sisters that they were uprooted from their places of origin and deprived of the land they lived on," the Pope said. "There are also many indigenous communities throughout the American continent that suffer from great poverty. For this, the world cannot feel at ease or satisfied."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pope John Paul II watching dancers perform a Maya creation dance yesterday in Izamal, Mexico. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); HOLY SEE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; IZMAL (MEX); UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); HOLY SEE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); ALASKA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); ETHNICITY (68%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



312 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Vote in Atlanta Suburb Condemns Homosexuality

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MARIETTA, Ga., Aug. 11

 BODY:
In a striking example of the emotional politics surrounding homosexual issues, Cobb County in suburban Atlanta has passed a resolution condemning homosexuality and is considering another that would require county-financed arts groups to meet "community, family-oriented standards."
Several communities around the country have passed measures aimed at combating political initiatives by homosexuals, but the resolution approved here -- although it carries no legal weight -- is believed to be the first one condemning homosexuality. 
 The proposed arts resolution, on the other hand, could break new ground in limiting government financing for even mildly controversial fare.
Critics of the resolution, which was passed Tuesday, say they are not planning to challenge it in court because, they say, its effect is more symbolic than real. But they say they will sue the county if the financing measure is passed on Aug. 24. The county will spend $123,000 of its $142 million budget on support for arts groups this year.
"We've already got lawyers lined up," said Gerry Weber, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union.
The resulting uproar has stirred extraordinary feelings, both for and against the resolution, in the largely white, conservative, upper-middle-class suburbs north and east of Atlanta. And it has shown once again how homosexual issues, a major rallying point for the Christian right, have also come to symbolize a broader cultural divide in American life.
 
'New York of the South'
 "Atlanta is sort of the New York of the South," said Matt Sander, a 27-year-old businessman and aspiring politician as he ate lunch this afternoon at the Original Chicago Hot Dog Co. here.
He did not mean it as a compliment.
"This was a way to say we want to live by the standards set by the parents, not some of the things they allow in big cities," he went on. "It's an effort to keep Cobb County the way it was 20 years ago."
Opponents of the proposals said a strident, narrow-minded minority was trying to force its view of morality on the entire community.
Speaking at a public hearing on Tuesday before the commission voted, the director of the Atlanta Shakespeare Company, Jeff Watkins of nearby Decatur, criticized the resolution's supporters, saying: "Theirs is not the voice of God. It's not the voice of America, and it is not the voice of family values. Theirs is the voice of pride, prejudice, bigotry and tyranny."
But with a crowd full of church groups wearing yellow tags reading "Support Community Standards" cheering them on, the commissioners voted 3 to 1 in favor of the proposal. The measure says that "life styles advocated by the gay community are incompatible with the standards to which this community subscribes."
 
Measure Is Defended
 Commission Chairman Bill Byrne said today that the measure was not intended as an attack against homosexuals. He called it an attempt to go on record as opposing what he called special privileges for homosexuals. But he conceded that the resolution that was passed had no legal weight.
"We are saying the values we want to adhere to and build on are the traditional community standards," he said. "Reinforcing those values and those standards is the responsibility of the political leadership of the United States, from the President down to the mayor and city council of the smallest city."
Anti-gay measures have cropped up in as many as 20 states, including Colorado, Oregon, California, Florida and Michigan. Last month, the Colorado Supreme Court delayed the enforcement of that state's anti-gay constitutional amendment, pending a hearing.
Most of these measure seek to bar laws protecting homosexuals from discrimination or to prevent measures like domestic-partner provisions giving homosexual unions a legal weight equal to heterosexual marriages.
The debate here has diverse roots. Some residents had complained about the local Theatre In The Square's production of "Lips Together, Teeth Apart," which has references to homosexuality. The group gets $41,000 of its $800,000 budget from the county.
But when the controversy arose, the company was presenting "Smoke on the Mountain," a bluegrass gospel show that some patrons criticized as an attempt "to cram conservative values down their throats," said Michael Horne, a co-founder of the theater.
 
Spark From Atlanta
 A more important factor behind the resolution may be Atlanta's decision to give benefits to the live-in domestic partners of city employees.
"That was the spark," Mr. Byrne said. "If it didn't happen in Atlanta, this would not have happened in Cobb County." By the end, supporters were invoking things like President Clinton's support for allowing homosexuals in the military and Gov. Zell Miller's invitation to the Gay Olympics to hold their games in Atlanta as a reason for the measures.
Only one of the four commissioners, William A. Cooper, dissented. But opinions are clearly split in the community.
"People should be able to make their own decisions about how to live their lives," said Elizabeth Lively, a 27-year-old mother who was shopping with her 5-year-old daughter today.
But supporters supported the resolution, both on moral grounds and because they contend that homosexuals are seeking special privileges.
Mary J. Gilstrap of Cobb County objected at the hearing to " the portrayal of homosexuality as an alternative life style compatible with traditional family values."
But the issue surrounding the financing proposal to be voted on later this month may be more complicated.
Even Mr. Byrne, who supported Tuesday's resolution, said the vague wording of "community, family-oriented standards" might make the pending proposal unenforceable.
The county was flooded today with phone calls, many from outsiders and most of them critical, county officials said. An economic boycott has been mentioned, and Mr. Weber said the vote could come back to haunt the county.
"This is the first county that has done such a thing, and they have labeled themselves as a backward, stereotypical Southern county, and they will be treated as such by the business community," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Commissioners of Cobb County, a suburb of Atlanta, Tuesday passed the first of two resolutions condemning homosexuality in the community. During the vote, the measure's supporters stood waving "Support Community Standards" cards as those opposed sat silently in the front. (Barry Shapiro/the Marietta Daily Journal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GWI (FRA) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: GERRY WEBER INTERNATIONAL AG (55%); SHAKESPEARE CO UNITED KINGDOM (52%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COBB COUNTY (GA) UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA, USA (96%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; FINANCES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); CULTURE GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); POLITICS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); BUDGETS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); RELIGION (65%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



313 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Yen Reaches Another High As Canadian Dollar Drops

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar continued to hit new lows against the Japanese yen today as investors bet that the enormous Japanese trade surplus would continue to push up Japan's currency.
The decline came even though the dollar rose yesterday against some other currencies, hitting its highest point against the Canadian dollar in more than five years. 
 Meanwhile, gold prices dropped again yesterday. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery fell $5.60 an ounce, to $375.30. December gold, the most actively traded contract, fell $5.70 an ounce, to $378.70.
In Tokyo today, the dollar was quoted at 103.30 yen in afternoon trading, its lowest level since modern exchange rates were set after World War II, down from yesterday's Tokyo close of 103.77 yen. In New York late yesterday, it was quoted at 103.64 yen, down from 104.70 yen on Tuesday.
Traders said the yen was supported by the belief that Japan's new Government would continue the practice of running a large trade surplus.
Japan said yesterday that its merchandise trade surplus with the rest of the world jumped to $11.82 billion in July, from $9.23 billion a year earlier. Moreover, its trade surplus with the United States climbed to $4.68 billion from $3.81 billion.
The surplus pushes up the Japanese currency because it means importers of Japanese goods need more yen to pay for them, raising demand.
Hillel Waxman, the chief foreign exchange dealer at Bank Leumi Trust Company in New York, said speculators contributed to the dollar's fall. "It's just continued pushing by speculators trying to bring the yen to the 100 level" to the dollar, he said.
By contrast, the dollar yesterday reached its highest rate against the Canadian dollar in five years, trading at 1.3068 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2930 on Tuesday. Traders said the Canadian currency was hurt by low interest rates in Canada, mixed economic reports and concerns about national elections later this year.
The selloff came after Canada's bank interest rate -- charged for loans to banks by the central bank -- fell from 4.32 percent to 4.20 percent yesterday, its lowest level since 1964. Lower interest rates hurt a currency, since investments denominated in that currency earn less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUMI (TASE) (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK BANK LEUMI LE ISRAEL BM (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES; CANADA CANADA (95%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); ELECTIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); WORLD WAR II (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



314 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Johnson & Johnson plans to cut 3,000 jobs this year through early retirements and layoffs, joining a surge of cost-cutting in the drug and health care industries. But the company's stock price fell to a 12-month low. [Page D1.]
Royal Appliance's troubles reflect the difficulty of coming under Wall Street scrutiny after years as a private company accountable only to owner-managers. [D1.] 
 Trans World Airlines won a judge's approval to emerge from 18 months of Federal bankruptcy protection. [D1.]
MCI's president and chief operating officer quit to become chief executive of General Instrument. [D1.]
Where to shop? Barneys for innovation? Lord & Taylor for the quiet cachet? It all has a psychological dimension, it seems. [D1.]
Westinghouse Electric agreed to sell its electrical distribution and control business to the Eaton Corporation. [D4.]
Federated Department Stores withdrew its motion for a preliminary injunction to prevent the chairman of its merchandising unit from taking a job with R. H. Macy. Instead, Federated asked an Ohio court to schedule a trial in the case. [D4.]
Hughes Aircraft met with N.A.A.C.P officials in an effort to dispel charges that the company has a poor record of hiring members of minority groups. [D4.]
Computer-chip stocks rallied after an industry association released figures showing record-breaking orders for July. [D4.]
Morgan Stanley purchased a Times Square skyscraper from a group of banks for $176 million, reflecting more interest in the New York City office-building market than many had expected. [B3.]
 
The Economy
Negotiators have completed most work on labor and environmental issues connected with the North American Free Trade Agreement and might announce side accords on these issues as soon as today or tomorrow, according to officials and Congressional aides. [D2.] The $1.6 billion sale of a power plant in northern Mexico has been thrown into doubt by concerns about pollution. [A7.]
The new tax law takes some luster off subchapter S corporations by raising the top individual tax rate. [D5.]
 
International
The Bank of France lowered its overnight lending rate for commercial banks by half a percentage point, to 9.25 percent. [D2.]
Germany plans to cut back benefits for unemployment and welfare for the first time in postwar history. [A3.]
 
Markets
Stocks advanced in tandem with the Treasury market. The Dow Jones industrial average set a new closing high, finishing up 10.62 points, at 3,583.35. [D8.]
The Treasury's auction of 10-year notes saw an average yield of 5.78 percent, the lowest since the United States began auctioning the 10-year issues regularly in 1976. [D16.]
In early trading today, the dollar hit another postwar low against the Japanese yen as investors bet that Japan's enormous trade surplus would continue to put pressure on the dollar. [D18.]
Soybean and other grain prices rallied in advance of the Government's first crop report following the devastating floods in the Midwest. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Some economists consider deficit "sustainability" as a budget concept. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Cigna's troubled property-casualty business is proving a drag on the company's stock. Market Place. [D8.]
More magazines are carrying fold-out posters to pitch products. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); M (NYSE) (83%); ETN (NYSE) (69%); DTV (NASDAQ) (55%); MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (69%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (69%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); MACY'S INC (83%); EATON CORP PLC (69%); DIRECTV (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (74%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); AIRLINES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); TAX LAW (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); POWER PLANTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); OFFICE PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



315 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: FEAR OF POLLUTION AT MEXICAN PLANT

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 11

 BODY:
The $1.6 billion sale to private investors of a huge thermoelectric power plant in northern Mexico has been thrown into doubt by concerns that pollution from the plant could blow over the border into Big Bend National Park in Texas.
The future of the nearly completed plant, which the Mexican Government had hailed as a first, shining example of its new effort to privatize the generation of badly needed electricity, is now mired in complex political bargaining tied to the North American Free Trade Agreement, officials said. 
 Officials of the Mexican Government and Mission Energy Company, the American concern that negotiated to buy the 1,400-megawatt plant along with a Mexican mining company, insist there is no conclusive evidence that its emissions would degrade air quality in Big Bend National Park, 130 miles northwest, as the United States Environmental Protection Agency fears.
But both sides say concerns about pollution across the border have been enough to generate a wave of American pressure for the plant to be refitted to meet not only the emissions standards of Mexico and the World Bank, which was to help finance the project, but something approaching the higher standards of the E.P.A. as well.
 
$300 Million to Cut Emissions
 Equipment to reduce the emissions to levels that would be permissible in the United States could cost the coal-fired plant as much as $300 million, Mission executives say. And that is much more than Mission and its majority partner, Grupo Acerero del Norte, say they will spend before renegotiating the 30-year contract under which they are to sell most of their electricity to Mexico's state-owned utility.
"We're kind of between a rock and a hard place," said Bob Dietch, a senior vice president of Mission Energy, a subsidiary of Southern California Edison. "Whatever the two Governments resolve, we will try to work with them." But, referring to the trade agreement, he added, "We've gotten caught up in the Nafta debate."
The struggle over the plant, known as Carbon II, underscores both how sharply the pressure to "harmonize" Mexican environmental standards with those of the United States has risen during the American debate over the trade agreement and the complications of doing so.
The Clinton Administration is expected to submit the agreement to Congress this fall so that it can be put into effect as planned next Jan. 1, and concerns about its environmental impact are a major obstacle to its passage. The agreement, which has already been approved in Canada and faces only a perfunctory legislative review in Mexico, would knock down most barriers to trade and investment among the three countries over 15 years.
 
Focus on Enforcing Laws
 In negotiations for a parallel accord to safeguard the environment under the trade pact, American officials have focused mainly on how to insure the enforcement of existing Mexican environmental laws.
But American and Canadian officials have generally accepted Mexico's claim that it cannot simply raise its environmental standards to their levels. Until Mexico's economy and enforcement mechanisms are strengthened, Mexican officials say, higher standards would probably be unenforceable, not to mention unfair.
Yet to some American environmentalists and Congressional representatives, Carbon II is a vivid example of the conflicts between Mexico's development and America's environment that have no clear solution. E.P.A. officials stress that they have no regulatory authority over the plant.
One senior E.P.A. official said that whatever solution the United States recommends it will likely be based not only on the emissions of Carbon II, but also those of Carbon I, a 1,200-megawatt generating plant that the Mexican Government owns and runs nearby.
The official said the E.P.A. will not necessarily seek to have the plants meet American standards, but to reduce emissions to levels that would safeguard air quality in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Maps show the location of Carbon II power plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCE (AMEX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (54%); SIC2873 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (54%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); MISSION ENERGY CO; GRUPO ACERERO DEL NORTE SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (57%); EDISON MISSION ENERGY LTD (57%); GRUPO ACERERO DEL NORTE SA DE CV (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); MISSION ENERGY CO; GRUPO ACERERO DEL NORTE US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK (TEXAS); TEXAS ; UNITED STATES; CANADA MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AIR POLLUTION; COAL ; PRIVATIZATION; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENVIRONMENT; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (87%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); APPROVALS (70%); MINES & MINING (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



316 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Midway Will Fly Again

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 11

 BODY:
A new, smaller Midway Airlines plans to fly again soon from its old Midway Airport hub in Chicago, its president, Kenneth Carlson, said today. Midway, which shut down in 1991 as a result of a weak economy, fierce competition and some ill-timed business moves, intends to resume operating in November. Mr. Carlson said that the new airline would be able to offer fares 40 percent below standard coach fares. No actual prices have been announced. Mr. Carlson said the new Midway would eventually operate 25 or so aircraft, carry 2.1 million passengers on 72 flights a day and post revenues of roughly $250 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MDWY (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MIDWAY AIRLINES MIDWAY AIRLINES INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIDWAY AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MIDWAY AIRPORT (CHICAGO, ILL); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR FARES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



317 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Midtown Building Is Sold for Lofty $176 Million

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
A Times Square skyscraper that has stood for months as one of the most potent symbols of the commercial real-estate crisis in New York City was sold yesterday to the Morgan Stanley Group Inc. for $176 million, a price considerably higher than many real-estate insiders had thought it would bring.
The sale reflected more interest in the New York City office-building market than many people had expected, members of the real-estate industry said. Barry F. Sullivan, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, said he thought the purchase could take the Times Square neighborhood "out of the pioneer stage and into the beginning of the long-run growth stage." 
 Mr. Sullivan said the deal, in addition to "virtually legitimizing the Times Square area," represented a significant commitment to the city by Morgan Stanley, which threatened to move to Stamford, Conn., last year and eventually decided to stay after receiving a large package of incentives from the city in exchange for a promise to stay in Manhattan and Brooklyn for 10 years.
"This is a 25-year deal anyway," Mr. Sullivan said of the building purchase. "It is an increased level of Morgan Stanley's commitment to the city" in a part of the city where the company's "presence will induce others to move there."
The buyer, Morgan Stanley, the huge financial services firm, said it planned to consolidate the 3,800 workers who are now at three Manhattan locations into the 41-story, 1.3 million-square-foot building at 1585 Broadway, between 47th and 48th Streets.
The seller was the lending group of eight banks that controlled the building, which went into what turned out to be a spectacular bankruptcy in December 1991 after its developer, David Solomon of Solomon Equities, foundered in the downturn of the New York market.
The list of the also-rans and their bids in the sealed-bid auction showed a degree of interest in the building far beyond what many had expected.
Industry insiders said the second-highest bid, $164 million, came from the Quantum Fund. The fund is overseen by George Soros, the Hungarian-born investor, with advice from Paul Reichmann, the patriarch of the Olympia & York real-estate empire, which had its own spectacular collapse in the spring of 1992.
Two other bids above $150 million, the minimum set by the owning bank group's adviser, came from Milstein Properties, a big New York family real-estate business, and Odyssey Partners, an investment boutique.
While the purchase price was higher than many had expected, the sale does not automatically herald a turnaround in the New York real-estate market. Morgan Stanley is in a different position than other would-be buyers in that it is buying as a user, and thus has different concerns than others might have.

GRAPHIC: Map shows location of the building at 1585 Broadway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (97%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC MORGAN STANLEY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: PINDER, JEANNE B GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



318 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Japan Trade Surplus Up

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 11

 BODY:
Japan's trade surplus leaped nearly $2 billion in July from June, the Finance Ministry said today. It was the 31st consecutive month that the surplus has grown.
Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus with the rest of the world jumped to $11.82 billion in July from $9.23 billion a year earlier, the ministry said. In June it stood at $9.97 billion. 
 The surplus with the United States, the most vocal critic of Japan's trade policies, climbed to $4.68 billion from $3.81 billion a year earlier.
 Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, in his first news conference, said Tuesday that reviving Japan's economy -- which is passing through its worst recession since World War II -- and reducing the surplus with the United States were among his Government's priorities.
The July rise in the surplus came as exports outpaced imports by a wide margin because of the yen's recent gains against the dollar, economists said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); RECESSION (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



319 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Urged to Finance A Cleanup of L.I. Sound

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y., Aug. 11

 BODY:
The Westchester County Executive, Andrew P. O'Rourke, called on the Federal Government today to "back up its regulations with real dollars and contribute its fair share" to the cleanup of Long Island Sound.
Mr. O'Rourke, speaking outside a hearing of the Long Island Sound Congressional Caucus here, said the Federal Government must make a financial commitment to the cleanup effort already under way by the States of New York and Connecticut, as well as local governments, environmental agencies and grass-roots citizens' groups. 
 "While local governments are ready and willing to accept their share of the responsibility for solving the pollution problems of Long Island Sound, we will need significant help from the Federal Government to achieve our goals," Mr. O'Rourke said. "The existing Federal and state financial infrastructure is simply inadequate to pay for the capital improvements and programs that will be necessary to solve the problems of Long Island Sound."
Mr. O'Rourke said that Westchester alone needed several hundred million for the cleanup.
 
Development Curb Is Feared
 Last December, after seven years of study, the Federal Government released a report, titled "The Long Island Sound Study Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan." The report recommends limiting the amount of nitrogen that flows from sewage plants into the Sound, a proposal that some say would stifle development in surrounding communities. Up to $8.1 billion may have to be spent to limit the nitrogen releases, the report says.
The caucus, led by Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of Westchester, and Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Fairfield County, was holding the third in a series of hearings on the report.
Mr. O'Rourke had to leave before he could address the hearing. But the County Planning Commissioner, Lynn Oliva, read a statement by Mr. O'Rourke, who warned that without the resources to carry out recommendations made in the Long Island Island study report, the cleanup effort would not be enough. "Without money from the Federal Government we will all be doomed to fail in our efforts, however well intentioned," the statement said.
Throughout the hearing, which was conducted in the Oakwood Island Pavilion at Five Island Park, with Long Island Sound's Echo Bay as a backdrop, speakers called on the Federal Government to contribute its fair share to the cleanup.
 
Nitrogen Flow Limited
 "This year, my colleagues on the caucus and I twice secured House passage of major increases in funding for clean water, totaling nearly $1 billion," Ms. Lowey said. "Unfortunately, the Senate killed both of these initiatives. But we will not give up. Providing additional resources to the Sound is a wise investment to our local economy and in the environment of our entire region," she said.
Gordon Colvin, director of the Division of Marine Resources for the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, praised Westchester County for its leadership in carrying out a policy not to increase the amount of nitrogen flowing into the Sound from its four South Shore sewage treatment plants.
"This will have a positive effect on reducing the nitrogen load to Long Island Sound," he said. "But attainment of our ultimate objectives will require that the strong Federal-state-local partnership continue. Key among the contributions of the Federal Government will be a provision of financial assistance."
Several citizens' groups also urged the caucus to keep trying to secure Federal aid for the cleanup effort.
Katherine Dieck, program coordinator for Citizens Campaign for the Environment, a group of 85,000 residents of New York and Connecticut, said: "Beach closure, fish kills, shellfish restrictions, decreases in the diversity of marine life that once flourished in these waters as well as other water quality problems, are still prevalent. Yesterday's future is upon us. Now is the time for action."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, center foreground, and Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, right, held a hearing of the Long Island Sound Congressional Caucus in New Rochelle, N.Y., attended by officials and environmental and developmental groups. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND SOUND; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FEDERAL AID (US) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); 

PERSON: O'ROURKE, ANDREW P (COUNTY EXEC) NITA M LOWEY (76%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



320 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Lower Rates Lift Dow to Another Record

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks were mostly higher yesterday as the Treasury's auction of 10-year notes drew strong investor demand, rallying the bond market and lowering interest rates. For the second time in three days, the Dow Jones industrial average set a new closing high, finishing up 10.62 points at 3,583.35.
The previous high was set on Monday, when the Dow closed at 3,576.08. 
 "The market is still having trouble with a resistance zone that goes from 3,575 on the Dow to 3,585," said Harry W. Laubscher, senior vice president and market analyst at Tucker Anthony Inc. "But it looks as if it's going to move through it in the next week or so. That would suggest an attack on the 3,600 to 3,640 region."
He said that while the market "looks higher in the near term, selling pressures are building and we expect more severe corrections to be introduced in coming months."
 
A Bad Day for H.M.O.'s
 Trouble areas in yesterday's market included health maintenance organizations, or H.M.O.'s, which underwent a meltdown as traders dumped shares of several stocks over concern about President Clinton's health care program. "Our opinion is that the selloff in H.M.O.'s is overdone," Mr. Laubscher said, "with some of the issues better buys than sells at these prices."
Traders said a draft of some of the plan's key features had been circulating within the investment community for the last several weeks. Kimberly Purvis, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, used the draft as a basis for downgrading several H.M.O. stocks in an investment report that the securities firm issued yesterday.
Among H.M.O. issues, Oxford Health Plans, a fast-growing company that operates in the New York City market and has been recommended by several investment firms, dropped 8 1/4, to 62 3/4, in Nasdaq trading.
Elsewhere, United Healthcare fell 6 3/4, to 52 3/4; Humana fell 3/4, to 10 3/4, and U.S. Healthcare declined 5 1/8, to 41 1/4.
A market bright spot was the semiconductor sector.
Semiconductor and computer stocks rose on a report by the Semiconductor Industry Association reflecting brisk demand for personal computers. As a result, issues like Intel, up 1 7/8, to 58 3/4, helped the Nasdaq composite to a new closing high of 718.77, up 1.69. The previous high, set on Monday, was 718.49.
The association reported that its book-to-bill ratio rose to 1.12 in July from a revised 1.11 in June, higher than expected because the summer months are usually slow for the industry. This means that chip makers had $112 of new orders for every $100 of products shipped last month.
Advanced Micro Devices rose 1 1/4, to 29 5/8, and Microsoft gained 1 3/8, to 72 3/8.
Mr. Laubscher said the buying in the semiconductor sector could overextend these stocks.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy at 268.3 million shares, up from 255.5 million on Tuesday. Advancing stocks outpaced decliners by 1,059 to 885.
 
Investor Reluctance
 For the most part, stocks traded mixed from the opening as investors were reluctant to make big moves before today's 30-year bond auction, which concludes the Government's quarterly borrowing. The Government will also release the July producer price report today and the Consumer Price Index on Friday.
Airline stocks were weak. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, declined 1 1/4, to 65; UAL, the parent of United Airlines, fell 3, to 143 1/2, and Delta Air Lines declined 1, to 51 3/8. Some analysts noted that the new Federal fuel tax would cost the industry $500 million a year after a two-year exemption runs out.
Elsewhere, Southern Pacific Rail closed at 15 in its first day of public trading, up from the 14 1/4 price on Tuesday when the 132-year-old company, based in San Francisco, offered 30 million shares.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (71%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); INTEL CORP (51%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS BOND MARKETS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); MICROPROCESSORS (64%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



321 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Sustainability, or Seeking the Deficit Level That We Can Live With.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
THE Democrats bit the deficit bullet, but did they bite off a big enough piece? Not by Ross Perot's reckoning, or, for that matter, by Bill Clinton's.
Their assumption, widely shared across the political spectrum, is that the only acceptable deficit is no deficit at all, or at least none when the economy is running at full capacity. And last week's budget accord still projects a deficit equal to 3 percent of national income in 1998 -- about where it was before the bipartisan budget summit conference in 1990. 
 But to many economists, the long-term goal of zero-deficit at full employment is, at best, a crude rule of thumb. If the object is to buttress a Japanese level of national thrift, a zero-deficit alone is insufficient. On the other hand, if the goal is simply to sustain the Government's capacity to pay its bills, research by William Buiter of Yale University suggests that a balanced budget is not necessary. In light of the political cost of further deficit reduction, "sustainability" is a budget concept that could soon come into vogue.
When a company's debts increase, Wall Street doesn't assume the borrower is doing something wrong. Indeed, the fact that the company has access to cash suggests it is doing something right. What counts is the credibility of the company's promises to repay. And that, in turn, depends on its future revenues and costs.
Likewise, when a government adds to it debts the lenders' big question is whether they will be caught in a giant Ponzi scheme -- a game in which this year's creditors can get their money only if the government can borrow the interest next year.
The United States Government can never truly become insolvent since there is no limit to the number of dollars the Federal Reserve can create by tapping a few keys on a computer console. There certainly is a practical limit, though, to the rate of growth of Federal indebtedness that could be managed without printing money to pay the bills, thereby expropriating some of the lenders' assets by inflating away their purchasing power. And as in the case of a corporation, Mr. Buiter argues, that rate turns on the expected growth of revenues, current expenditures and debt service.
Mr. Buiter's arithmetic is intuitive. What economists call the Government's "primary budget surplus" -- the surplus of revenues over current expenditures -- must grow fast enough to keep pace with mounting annual interest payments.
Well maybe it is not quite intuitive, but the math is correct. And lo and behold, reasonable guesses about future interest rates and revenue growth rates imply that the five-year budget just passed by Congress will generate a deficit that is very close to sustainable. In 1998, Mr. Buiter estimates, interest obligations on the debt will exceed the primary budget surplus by about $40 billion -- a mere half a percent of national output.
There are catches. For one thing, $40 billion is nothing to sneeze at in the penurious new world of Federal budget-making. For another, it would be more accurate to say $40 billion and counting. As the President has repeatedly pointed out, deficits will escalate rapidly after 1998 unless the Government share of the national health bill is contained.
The deeper conundrum, though, is how to interpret sustainability. To Richard Cooper of Harvard, it does not matter how the debt is financed, as long as the borrowing does not crowd out resources available for the productivity-enhancing investment that propels rising living standards. Thus in a world in which foreigners are apparently willing to lend virtually unlimited quantities to the United States Treasury as long as they are confident that the dollar will retain its purchasing power, sustainability is what really counts.
But to Benjamin Friedman, another Harvard economist and a fire-breathing deficit hawk, "sustainability is just the outer bound" of what Washington can get away with. Deficits are a form of national dis-saving, he notes, subtracting from the already anemic private savings of Americans. Unless households have the insight and will to offset their Government's profligacy by saving more themselves, he argues, even sustainable deficits are very bad news.
Barry Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings Institution, goes a step further. "Saving is all that counts" in determining future living standards, he said. While the high rates of domestic investment permitted by open world capital markets are certainly desirable, it is the providers of the savings who will end up with the gravy. Thus Americans ought to be exporting savings as a cushion against diminishing investment opportunities at home, not importing it to finance today's old-age pensions and medical insurance.
From the Friedman-Bosworth perspective, then, the apparent sustainability of chronic deficit finance amounts to the worst of all possible worlds. For if the capital markets do not force Washington to pull up its socks, the prospect of pulling off this politically daunting task after 1998 seems remote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BUITER, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



322 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Historical Society Gets N.Y.U.'s Help

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
New York University is taking over management of the library of the troubled New-York Historical Society, it was announced on Tuesday. In addition, the two institutions will develop joint educational programs, and the libraries at the university and the society will share their catalogues in a single database.
An agreement between the two institutions became effective Aug. 1. It was announced by Herbert S. Winokur Jr. and Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the chairmen of the historical society, and L. Jay Oliva, the president of New York University. Under the agreement, which is for a year but may be extended, Carlton C. Rochell, the dean of the university's library system, which has holdings of 3.7 million volumes, will oversee management of the society's library services and develop joint programs.
 
'Economie of Scale'
 At a stroke, the venture promises to cut costs for and to shore up management of the society, which has teetered on the edge of bankruptcy in the last four years and early this year was on the verge of closing its doors. At various times, talks were begun to see whether the society could be merged with the Museum of the City of New York or the New York Public Library. In a last-minute reprieve, as the society was laying off staff members, closing its galleries and cutting back on library hours, the State Legislature allocated $6.3 million to it in April, and the city provided matching financing in May. 
 "One reason this made sense is the economies of scale when we do the technical work of acquisitions processing and cataloguing," Mr. Rochell said of the agreement. "We have a large department dedicated to this, and we can absorb theirs, performing those functions at a much lower cost than they can."
The university, for its part, will gain computer access to the society's 700,000 volumes and more than 3 million manuscripts, maps and photographs, many of them dealing with Colonial American history. "The two collections, taken together, represent one of the two or three finest collections in the country in American history," said Mr. Rochell.
Under the new arrangement, the society's library will be open five days a week starting in early September, instead of the current three, and its database will be loaded into the university's computer system. This will allow scholars around the world to have access to both institutions through inter-network computer systems, and users of the society's library to have access to the university's catalogue.
 
Catalogue Backlog
 The university will oversee all acquisitions, processing and cataloguing for the historical society, and will help upgrade the society's conservation program. An immediate task is to clear up the library's cataloguing backlog. About a third of the library's holdings remain uncatalogued; only 40,000 items are ready to be loaded into the university's database. "We believe we can do all this at 14 percent less cost than when we were operating three days a week," said Mr. Ross.
Last year, the budget of the society's library was $685,000. With the university managing the library, Mr. Ross estimated, the figure will drop to $600,000. He said that although management duties were being taken over by the university, the library's staff would remain unchanged and the society would retain ownership of all materials in its library.
Plans also call for the two institutions to undertake joint publishing and documentary video projects, using the university's press and its video-production resources. And the historical society, whose galleries are undergoing a renovation that will take most of this year, will be able to mount temporary exhibitions at the university.
"We'd like by end of this year to have them in a state that they can say they have a sustainable professional level of operations," said Mr. Rochell. "If the society can become a productive center of research and scholarship, it's not just beneficial to the city, but to what we're all about as well."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS CLOSINGS (90%); HISTORY (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); LIBRARIANS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



323 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: AD CAMPAIGN;
Mr. Giuliani as a Son of the Neighborhoods

BYLINE: TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:

ON THE SCREEN
 Camera pans in on row of brick houses, then moves down to pick up Mr. Giuliani dressed in a red short-sleeved shirt and sitting on the hood of a car. When he talks about the city's small businesses, the scene shifts to the Bronx Terminal Market while captions run across the bottom, saying "New York City has lost over 300,000 jobs in the last three years," and "Only 25 percent of N.Y.C. job loss can be blamed on national trends. Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics." At the end, Mr. Giuliani's face reappears, inset into a brilliant blue background with a slogan: "Rudy Giuliani: He'll listen to the people in every borough."
 
PRODUCER
Garth Group of New York. 

THE SCRIPT
 (Mr. Giuliani's voice) Some people call this an outer borough. I call it part of the heart and soul of New York City. I've lived here in Woodside, Queens. I was born in Brooklyn, lived in Queens, went to school in the Bronx, lived in Manhattan. I've lived or gone to school in just about every part of New York City. It's a city that I love. It's a city that I see as a city of neighborhoods. We have to listen more to the people who live in these neighborhoods in New York City; we have to listen to them when they tell us about the deterioration of the school system. And we have to fight back to make the New York City public schools the best in the country again. We have to listen to them when they tell us they want a higher quality of life, a cleaner city, a better city, a city that draws more business and has more jobs. We have to listen to them when they tell us that the city is crushing the small businesses of New York City. I mean, after all, that's the heart and the soul of the city, the small businesses. That's what we're being told by the people who live in these neighborhoods. I've been there, I've grown up there, that's where I come from, that's where my family comes from, and I've been listening to them for the last four years. And that's what they've been telling me.
 
ACCURACY
 Mr. Giuliani has spent time in each of the city's five boroughs except for Staten Island, but at the age of 7, he moved to Nassau County and only commuted back to Brooklyn for high school. The Giuliani campaign cites a May article in Newsday in which Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, is quoted as saying that national trends could be blamed for only one-quarter of the jobs lost in the city since 1979. But in an interview, Mr. Ehrenhalt said he had never made such an assertion and would have no way of knowing how to separate those job losses caused by national factors from those caused by purely local ones. In fact, the claim more closely resembles the findings of an analysis of econometric models conducted by Stephen Kagann, Mr. Giuliani's economic adviser, when he was chief economist for City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman in 1991.
 
SCORECARD
 One point of this ad is to paint Mr. Giuliani as an authentic son of his city, someone familiar with the corner of 33d and Third, and in tune with the city's concerns. While he never mentions Mayor Dinkins's name, his entire speech is an implicit rebuke of the Mayor's handling of problems from education to sanitation to the economy. By saying that he has been listening to New Yorkers' concerns for the last four years, Mr. Giuliani strongly suggests that the Mayor has not been. This ad could resonate powerfully with many voters in the boroughs outside Manhattan who feel they are too often ignored, but it might strike a less responsive chord among more liberal swing voters whose support Mr. Giuliani also badly needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TRENDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); STATISTICS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



324 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Russia-Japan Relations on the Rocks

 BODY:
Four barren islands in the Kurile chain stand between Russia and Japan. A reformist Russian Government is reluctant to return them for fear of stirring nationalist reaction at home. Yet without a commitment to their return, Japan is withholding substantial aid and investment that could propel Russia down the road to reform and recovery.
The impasse is not in America's interest. Washington wants its longtime ally Japan to regain what is rightfully Japan's, the islands Stalin seized at the end of World War II; and it needs Japanese capital to help Russia's economy. 
 With Washington's encouragement, the new Government in Tokyo could break the impasse. Tokyo could cough up more aid now and pledge a package of economic investment, promising to deliver it once Russia agrees to return the islands eventually. Limiting U.S. naval operations in the area could soften Russian military objections.
In 1956 Nikita Khrushchev offered to return the smaller two of the four islands with the signing of a peace treaty, but withdrew the offer in 1960 when the U.S. and Japan renewed their security treaty. In 1987 and 1988, Mikhail Gorbachev informally tried to revive the two-island formula but Japan was unwilling to accept that without some acknowledgment of Japanese sovereignty over the other two. It refused to offer substantial aid until that happened. But in March 1991 Ichiro Ozawa, then Secretary General of Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party, informally discussed an exchange of $26 billion in aid for eventual reversion of the islands. Now that Mr. Ozawa is the power behind the new Japanese Government, he could officially put that offer back on the table.
Efforts by the Russian Foreign Ministry to bridge the gap with Japan have run afoul of Russian nationalists, especially in the military, who fulminate about the loss of empire. That has discouraged initiatives from Japan.
Washington could encourage Japan to come up with more aid now, similar to the $50 million Tokyo is providing to help Moscow dismantle its nuclear arsenal. Giving aid in advance, far from weakening Japan's leverage, would avoid the appearance of trying to buy the islands that so infuriates Russian nationalists.
Washington can also reassure Russian admirals who fear the U.S. Navy could use the islands to pen their nuclear-armed submarines in the Sea of Okhotsk. The U.S. can pledge to slow the tempo of its naval operations in the area and avoid provocative maneuvers.
The U.S. has much to gain by brokering a deal that moves relations between Russia and Japan off the rocks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KURILE ISLANDS; JAPAN; RUSSIA JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA ; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); NAVIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NAVAL VESSELS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993



325 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING;
Cuomo Hits Hustings On the Backstretch

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y., Aug. 11

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo drove into the stable area at Saratoga Race Course at 9:15 this morning, checked the horses in Sally Lundy's barn, shook hands with some trainers between workouts and then got down to business: his campaign to reorganize racing in New York State.
 For the next four hours, working both sides of Union Avenue, he first met with officials of the horse owners and trainers on the backstretch and expressed support for their drive for higher purses and no shutdown of winter racing. Then he went to the Hall of Fame across the street, met with the trustees of the New York Racing Association and expressed hope for a joint attack on the problems besetting the business. 
He did not berate racing officials as fat cats and bad managers, as he has done in the past. But in his main message of the day, he told both sides that he would resist any shutdown of racing next winter for economic reasons. The racing association says it lost $9.5 million racing in bad weather last winter; the trainers say 3,500 jobs would be lost if they didn't race all winter.
 "We think winter racing generally is essential," he said, standing on the grass between the barns. "We know that N.Y.R.A. has a problem because winter racing costs money. But we want to see winter racing this year. If the Legislature doesn't come back this fall and do it, we'll try to deal with it ourselves."
 
Higher Purses a Goal
 In one of his few barbs on a day marked by conciliation, the Governor said: "I don't like the idea that N.Y.R.A. tells backstretch people they'll cut health insurance while they're still riding around in Jaguars."
 The Governor also said that he wanted higher purses but didn't know where the money would come from; he expected N.Y.R.A. and the Off-Track Betting Corporation to cooperate on a merger, and he would not lower the takeout on winning bets unless progress was made in solving the other problems.
 "We want N.Y.R.A. and O.T.B. to merge on their terms, not ours," Cuomo said. "We're insisting on some sort of unification, but we're not telling them how to do it. We don't want to do it by creating a greater government presence in racing."
 Allan R. Dragone, chairman of the board of trustees of the racing association, said later: "We had a very good meeting with the Governor. It was most frank and gracious. We promised to be as cooperative as possible. So, we shall see what we can get done."
 On the issue of winter racing, Dragone said: "We'd like to continue winter racing but not lose $9.5 million, as we did last year."
 The Governor was invited to Saratoga by the Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association, which represents 3,000 owners and 300 trainers in New York. He picked a day when the 30 trustees of N.Y.R.A. were scheduled to hold their monthly meeting. He was accompanied by Vincent Tese, the state's director of economic development and chairman of the Governor's Advisory Commission on Racing in the 21st Century, which proposed in June that N.Y.R.A. and O.T.B. negotiate a merger but did not tell them how to do it.
 Albert Fried, president of the horsemen's group, said after the meeting: "When was the last time the horsemen met with the Governor? I don't know that we ever met."
 Cuomo also broached the issue of the New York Yankees, who have been threatening to leave the Bronx.
 "They may be dragooned to New Jersey, and New Jersey would pay for it with casino gambling," he said. "Some guy in the Bronx is going to say: Why not us? I've never pushed casino gambling, but it's an inevitable question that will come up.
 "And you can't go to the Meadowlands and play as the New York Yankees. You think of Babe Ruth, you think of New York. You win pennants, you draw people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo with Albert Fried, right, president of New York Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association at Saratoga. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%); HORSEMEN'S BENEVOLENT & PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HORSEMEN'S BENEVOLENT & PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HORSES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); GAMING (61%); LAYOFFS (58%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); DURSO, JOSEPH MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993



326 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1931 words

HEADLINE: Where AIDS Advances, Understanding Lags;
On Long Island, Patients Describe Suburban Exclusion Unmatched in Cities

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NESCONSET, L.I.

 BODY:
Peeking out from the clutter of papers on Anthony and Susan Scardace's refrigerator is testimony to a time of euphoria, before AIDS gave the family a guided tour through the dark side of suburbia. It is a snapshot of Mr. Scardace cradling his daughter, Victoria Marie, whose day-old face shines pink and impossibly playful.
The picture was taken at Mid-Island Hospital in Bethpage six years ago, where Mr. Scardace was a popular employee in the purchasing department. 
 But like a Polaroid photograph in reverse, the world captured in the picture has since dissolved. Victoria fought a series of AIDS-related ailments before she died of cystic fibrosis at 15 months. Mr. Scardace, who believes his supervisors mistakenly concluded he had the disease after seeing insurance claims for his daughter's treatment, became a kind of invisible man, steadily stripped of responsibilities and shunned by his co-workers.
 
Unmatched Isolation
 And Mrs. Scardace, who has not told her own family that she has AIDS, listens to relatives call the disease a God-driven thinning of the human herd, eliminating homosexuals, drug addicts and minorities.
These are the quiet ravages of AIDS on Long Island, which has the highest suburban rate of the disease in the nation. With 2,834 cases reported through the end of May, Long Island was the first suburb in the United States to qualify for financing under the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency Act, a Federal program that has funneled more than $2 million to Nassau and Suffolk Counties for transportation, clinics, food and dental programs for people with AIDS. Another 8,000 in Nassau and Suffolk have tested positive for H.I.V., and health-care experts estimate the true number may be double that.
Despite what experts call an epidemic on the Island, interviews with health officials, advocates and people with AIDS suggest that understanding of the disease and attitudes toward those it strikes lag far behind the progress of AIDS here. And while discrimination against AIDS patients is hardly unique to the suburbs, they describe an isolation unmatched in cities, where health centers, transportation and support services are more accessible, and sheer numbers make the illness less unusual.
The practical isolation is part of a deeper sense of exclusion. Many fear losing their housing, jobs, families and even friends, and weigh perceived slights against the dread possibility that word of their condition may have leaked out.
"You don't have a close-knit, cohesive community that can be a support system," said Jeffrey Reynolds, a spokesman for the Long Island Association for AIDS Care. "And the pervasive sense of denial is an obstacle to people seeking services and support."
"It forces many people into the closet, and that makes it very difficult to put a human face to AIDS," he added. "You're at an incredible risk of losing your job, your health insurance, your housing and being shunned by your neighbors." While legal protections against discrimination exist, he said, pursuing them is a drain that few people with AIDS can afford -- physically, financially or emotionally.
 
A Lack of Openness, Multiple Partners
 Despite scattered oases of openness on Fire Island and the East End, social life among gay people on the rest of Long Island largely consists of anonymous assignations at parking lots along major roadways and at bars -- a tendency that health experts and advocates say fuels the spread of AIDS. Men with multiple partners play a kind of sexual Russian roulette, while spouses unaware of the risk fail to take precautions.
"People who are homosexual in suburbia are going to be in that nuclear family situation, and that doesn't allow for a supportive monogamous homosexual experience, and they put themselves at enormous risk," said Louis Weiss, 27, who has worked in AIDS education on the Island since he tested positive for H.I.V. six years ago. "In being different that way, they've shortened their lives."
Mr. Weiss, who often runs AIDS-prevention workshops for teen-agers, said education is hobbled by a tendency among parents to avoid the issue. "It's left up to the schools, which are on that fence where they're trying to do the education, but getting the backlash from the P.T.A.'s and others."
Dr. Rose Walton, who trains health-care workers as director of the State University of New York at Stony Brook's AIDS Education and Resource Center, said the sense of secrecy runs so deep that many Long Island professionals who work with AIDS patients will hide the fact from their families and neighbors.
"I think we don't expect people to have AIDS in the suburbs," she said. "For the most part there's still a tremendous amount of denial. It's like, not in my backyard, but it's in everybody's backyard."
 
A Daughter's Denial; A Writer Feels Exiled
 Diana O., a mother of three who lives in Freeport, said a television reporter once came to interview her, but knocked on a neighbor's apartment door by mistake. A few months later, the neighbor moved; Diana still ponders whether news of her illness prompted the neighbor to leave.
In her own family, Diana spoke of her illness, but found relatives would no longer wash and cut her hair. "I have a daughter who tells people I have cancer," she said, and fell silent. "If that helps her out, it's O.K. If she's too ashamed to tell people her mother is dying of AIDS."
Patrick Daniels, a 57-year-old writer who is legally blind, believes that a local newspaper, The East Hampton Star, stopped publishing his freelance articles because a picture of him appeared on the front page of The New York Times in September 1992 with an article about older men with H.I.V. Although he agreed to be interviewed and photographed for the article, he clearly had not anticipated all the consequences.
He said The Star had accepted his work, which included book and music reviews, for five years, but has not published a word since the article about him appeared. Buried deep in one of his own articles, he had even mentioned his illness, but he believes it was the more prominent disclosure that led to his literary exile.
The loss of that role has changed the way he sees the bedrock of the East End community, to which artists, entertainers and a number of gay people flock each summer. "They have a facade of being awfully liberal, awfully understanding, awfully humane, but it's about a quarter-inch deep," he said. "What you have out here is real conservative. It's all right to come out of the closet if you stay in New York, but don't try it here."
Helen Rattray, publisher of The East Hampton Star, said that the recession had forced the newspaper to cut back its freelance budget, and that music criticism was "at the bottom of the list." She said the record of the paper, which won a 1987 award for its coverage of gay issues from the East End Gay Organization, was "beyond reproach."
"The point is we were cutting back on all kinds of freelance articles," Ms. Rattray said.
Still, Mr. Daniels is convinced that he was being shunned for his openness. The theme echoes through talks with patients struggling against the disease who speak of a second battle, often more taxing, to maintain their sense of dignity. And that often hinges on keeping secrets, even from the people they need most.
The Scardace family depended on the warmth of their families and Mr. Scardace's co-workers throughout their daughter's brief life. While Mr. Scardace testified anonymously on Capitol Hill in the hope his child could be given the drug AZT, which was then banned for children, colleagues, told only that the baby had cystic fibrosis, had a fund-raiser to help pay medical costs. The child died in 1988.
 
Exclusion Recalled, A Lawsuit Is Filed
 Mr. Scardace, who is suing Mid-Island Hospital for $5 million, dates his ostracism at work from the following year, when a new supervisor took over the purchasing department. Mr. Scardace believes that word of his daughter's condition leaked out.
A hospital official, a lawyer and the supervisor, Arthur Rego, denied discriminating against Mr. Scardace, and said those named in the suit had not even known of Mr. Scardace's wife's and daughter's condition.
But Mr. Scardace could not imagine why else he would be excluded from meetings and forbidden to speak with vendors. Virtually all his responsibilities went to other employees, his suit alleges.
His respect went next, he said. One supervisor would stand over Mr. Scardace's desk and complain, to no one in particular, of a foul odor, while another stopped addressing him by name, instead calling him "young man," he said. Co-workers apparently took their lead from their bosses, also ostracizing him, he said.
Phyllis Duntze, a former co-worker in the purchasing department, recalled the reaction of fellow workers who went along with Mr. Scardace's ostracism, though she did not know the family was suffering from AIDS. "There was a recession and everyone was fearful for their own jobs," she said in a telephone interview from her home in Wisconsin.
Mr. Rego, who has since left Mid-Island Hospital, said he did not eliminate, but "altered" Mr. Scardace's duties when he took over the purchasing department. He acknowledged that Mr. Scardace had not collected any unfavorable job evaluations at the time, but would not say what made him change Mr. Scardace's responsibilities.
He also said he "had no idea" that Mr. Scardace's wife and daughter had AIDS until he was served with the lawsuit. He referred further questions to the hospital's lawyer, Morris Tuchman, who also maintained that Mid-Island Hospital was unaware of the family's medical history and that it had not materially changed Mr. Scardace's 30-hour-a week job. Mr. Scardace also works full-time as a patrolman for the New York City Fire Patrol.
"Frankly, he gets the same salary in the same department working in the same job at the hospital, and in fact, he has a totally flexible schedule," Mr. Tuchman said. "It's very hard to articulate what it is that's been diminished. He's not sitting in a dark room all alone."
But Harold M. Weiner, who is representing Mr. Scardace, said the suit was really about Mr. Scardace's loss of standing and chances for advancement. "Despite what many people think, most people don't want to earn money for nothing," he said.
However the lawsuit is resolved, the turnaround among people who once embraced them has changed the Scardaces in fundamental ways. Though they have kept the illness a secret until now, Mr. Scardace has begun wearing a red ribbon to work. And the couple are braced for the reactions their public disclosure may draw from family members, at least one of whom has argued that people with AIDS should be placed in concentrations camps and exterminated.
Mrs. Scardace, who believes she contracted the disease when she was single and worked in a nursing home, once considered herself friendly and outgoing; now she avoids new friendships in the fear outsiders might peer into her kitchen cabinets and ask about the rows of prescription medicine. "I just don't have the energy for all the lies," she said.
Outside, the street seems idyllic; the laughter of children playing in the summer evening filters through the windows. Their house is nestled among others just like it, with neatly trimmed lawns and splashes of flowers. For a moment, it seemed nothing could disturb the tranquillity.
"It's because they don't know," Mrs. Scardace said, and gently closed the cabinet door.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday described the isolation felt by AIDS patients in suburban communities on Long Island.
It included a passage about the scarcity of opportunities for gay social life outside of parts of Fire Island and the East End, adding that such social life "largely consists of anonymous assignations" in parking lots and at bars.
 The statement was based on descriptions from people with AIDS, from their advocates and from other gay people on Long Island; the sources should have been specified.
Nevertheless, the characterization -- especially the word "largely" -- was overly general, and thus unfair.
The article should not have equated social lives with sex lives, and should have specified that the reference applied to some secretly gay Long Islanders, not gay people in general.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ravages of AIDS have cut through suburbia, as well, where the isolation can be even more severe. "What you have out here is real conservative," said Patrick Daniels, a writer living in East Hampton, L.I. "It's all right to come out of the closet if you stay in New York, but don't try it here." (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AIDS & HIV (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); DISEASE REPORTING (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); EPIDEMICS (58%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (54%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993



327 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: COURT BACKS PLAN TO PAY CUSTOMERS OF FAILED INSURER

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
A plan to rehabilitate the largest life insurance company ever to fail in the United States was approved yesterday by a New Jersey court. Under the plan, the 700,000 customers of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company will have full access to their money after a waiting period of up to seven years.
Unless it is delayed by legal appeals, the plan will finally give some sense of certainty to customers around the nation. The Newark-based insurer was taken over by the State of New Jersey in July 1991 after it became insolvent. 
 Under the rehabilitation plan, most customers will be guaranteed a minimum interest rate of 5 percent on their pension and life insurance savings while the company tries to rebuild its assets under state supervision. If they demand their savings before the company completes the rehabilitation plan, they will have to pay stiff penalties, starting with a loss of 45 cents on the dollar if they withdraw their money in the first year. But death benefits will be paid immediately.
 
 
Delays Cause Anger
 The rehabilitation process has been the greatest test to date of the nation's system of state-run guarantee funds that stand behind the financial products sold by insurance companies. Consumers who were owed money by Mutual Benefit, and banks that had made loans to the company and its subsidiaries, have expressed anger at the long wait, the low interest paid on their savings, and the uncertainty they have faced.
In his decision yesterday, state Superior Court Judge Paul Levy in Trenton rejected the objections of banks and other large creditors of Mutual Benefit that wanted to be treated the same as consumers in receiving access to their money as the company is slowly revived. If they had won, it would probably have meant less generous settlement terms for individual customers.
 
 
Creditors Study Decision
 A lawyer for the creditors said last night that they were still studying the decision and had not decided whether to appeal.
"We have made every effort over the past two years to insure that the company's policyholders are treated fairly," the New Jersey Insurance Commissioner, Samuel F. Fortunato, said yesterday. "We are pleased that the New Jersey court affirmed the principle that Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company's policyholders are entitled to priority over general and unsecured creditors."
In contrast to bank customers, whose accounts are guaranteed for up to $100,000 by the Federal Government, a customer with a policy or pension plan at a failed insurance company is paid from state pools. Each pool raises money by levying charges on all insurance companies that do business in the state. The funds are different in each state, however, and the protection they offer to different types of customers varies widely.
The failure of Mutual Benefit, which was founded in 1845 and was highly regarded in its field, involved such large sums and so many customers in so many states, that Mr. Fortunato determined that many customers would never receive all of their money if the company were liquidated and consumers were told to rely on their state guarantee funds.
Instead, after long negotiations between the insurance industry and state regulators across the nation, New Jersey developed a plan that would permit the company's new state-appointed managers to rebuild its assets over time. Real estate holdings, which the company has mostly been unable to sell, made up 63 percent of its portfolio at the time the company was taken over. The plan assumes that those properties can be sold or will increase in value in the coming years.
Like many insurers in the 1980's, Mutual Benefit sought to pay high interest rates on its investment products. To generate those competitive returns, it invested more than $5 billion in the real estate market and in leveraged buyouts of corporations. The company was taken over by New Jersey after the real estate market tumbled and anxious customers began to withdraw their cash.
Michael S. Meisel, a lawyer who represented the insurance commissioner and the company's rehabilitators in court, said yesterday that more than two years after its failure, Mutual Benefit had assets of about $8.8 billion while it owed $9.9 billion to individual policyholders and others.
 
 
Fear of a 'Meltdown'
 "If all consumers had been left to make claims against state guarantee funds, some would have been partly covered, some would have been totally covered, some would not have been covered at all," Mr. Meisel said. "It would have resulted in a meltdown of the company, and that would not have been in the public interest."
Under the current plan, customers who are not protected by their state guarantee funds will be protected by a consortium of 14 insurance companies that have volunteered to take responsibility.
One critic of the state guarantee fund system, Robert Hunter, the president of the National Insurance Consumer Organization in Washington, said yesterday that the fate of Mutual Benefit policyholders demonstrated that the guarantee fund system does not give consumers adequate protection.
Although many customers who have heard of guarantee associations think their savings will be paid to them quickly in case of a failure, Mr. Hunter said that in cases like this, the guarantee funds were never tapped at all. Rather, regulators told consumers that they would have to wait while new management rebuilds the insurers' assets.
"The thing that bothers me about all these wheeling and dealings is that nobody ever really activates the guarantee funds," Mr. Hunter said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE CO MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LIFE INSURANCE LIFE INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); APPEALS (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER; LEVY, PAUL (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



328 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Praised by Control Board For Handling of Fiscal Problems

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
The members of the State Financial Control Board, many of whom have criticized the Dinkins administration in recent months for its handling of New York City's fiscal problems, lavishly praised Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday for promising to take bold action after the mayoral election in November.
The timing was welcome for Mr. Dinkins, whose main opponent in the mayoral race, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate, has stepped up his attacks on what he describes as the Mayor's mismanagement of the city and its fiscal affairs. 
 The praise yesterday marked a major shift in the board's public assessment of the Mayor's commitment to fundamental, long-term changes in the size and structure of the municipal government. For much of the spring, many of the control board's seven members had expressed misgivings about the budget the Mayor proposed for the fiscal year that began on July 1.
In an extraordinary statement then, the board's three private-citizen members, appointed by the board chairman, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, said the Mayor was relying on questionable one-time revenues and had failed to take fundamental, long-term steps to shrink the size of city government to fit its revenues.
But yesterday, at an annual meeting in which the board reviewed the state of the city's finances, the members were full of praise for the Mayor. They explained their turnabout by citing substantive actions taken by Mr. Dinkins in the last two months to address short-term fiscal problems and by his promise to address the underlying, long-term problems after the election.
But the political context was unmistakable. The board members, most of whom are Democrats, were under considerable pressure to rally around the Democratic Mayor in a tightly contested re-election campaign.
The Governor, who appointed the three private citizens on the control board who had recently been so critical of Mr. Dinkins, said yesterday, "The Mayor can be proud of this solid fiscal record, which was accomplished in the face of an extremely severe recession."
And Stanley S. Shuman, one of the board's private members, read a prepared statement that he said represented the views of all three private members. Mr. Shuman said that they thought the Mayor had made "real progress" in reducing city spending over the last two months, that they were encouraged by a presentation made yesterday by the Mayor and that they now believed Mr. Dinkins had "assured his commitment" to taking bold steps to confront the long-term imbalance between the city's expenditures and revenues.
The city's fiscal affairs are always intertwined with politics, but seldom has the connection been quite so overt as it was during the control board's carefully choreographed, hourlong meeting at Governor Cuomo's offices in the World Trade Center in lower Manhattan.
The ostensible purpose of the meeting was for the board to take a vote, as it must by law each year, on whether the city's finances are in order. If the board decides, using complex standards, that the city's fiscal affairs are in disarray, it can vote to assert control over the budget, the kind of direct control that the board had when as it was created during the city fiscal crisis of the 1970's.
The board voted unanimously that the city's fiscal affairs were in order and that the board would continue to function as merely a monitor of the city budget, as it has since 1986.
 
'A Powerful Endorsement'
 And while virtually no one had suggested beforehand that the outcome was in doubt, the Governor hailed the vote as a significant victory for the Mayor. Mr. Cuomo called the vote "a powerful endorsement of the efforts of the city."
After the meeting, in remarks with reporters, the Governor insisted that the vote was important. "It's not perfunctory," he said. "This is test day. It's always in doubt, until it happens."
Mr. Cuomo -- who was criticized by some Dinkins supporters two weeks ago, when a state report that the Governor commissioned on the Crown Heights disturbances in 1991 sharply questioned Mr. Dinkins's leadership during the unrest -- said his praise for the Mayor's fiscal stewardship should convince people that he supports Mr. Dinkins politically and that he merely tries to speak honestly on the issues.
"That's my job as Governor," Mr. Cuomo said. "You have to tell the truth. Sometimes it helps and sometimes it doesn't."
Without mentioning them by name, the Governor took several jabs during the meeting at recent fiscal proposals by Mr. Giuliani and his running mate, Herman Badillo, the Republican-Liberal candidate for comptroller. Mr. Cuomo also employed self-mockery several times in congratulating the Mayor on balancing the city budget.
He noted once that Mr. Dinkins had balanced his budgets without resorting to what the Governor called "the schemes" that he has used to balance the state budget. Another time, Mr. Cuomo said, "I am very mindful that the Mayor has been able to do what I've been unable to do in Albany, and that is to produce balanced budgets on time with relative ease."
 
Too Optimistic
 Some board members indicated that they still had some concerns about the Mayor's budget for the current year. Several members said that they still believed some of Mr. Dinkins's assumptions were too optimistic and that he might have to revise the budget later in the year, as often occurs.
But the overall thrust of the members' comments were quite supportive. They said repeatedly that they had confidence in the Mayor's ability to keep the budget in balance, and they said they were encouraged by Mr. Dinkins's pledges to confront the city's long-range fiscal problems soon.
In individual remarks, board members credited Mr. Dinkins for having made more than $400 million in cuts to the municipal budget since late May, making it more likely, they said, that the $31.2 billion budget will remain in balance.
 
Fundamental Changes
 Many members also praised the Mayor for having appointed a panel of three distinguished former government officials, who are researching ways for the city to make fundamental changes in city expenditures and tax revenues that would achieve the long-term budget balance that board members and other fiscal critics have been demanding.
Mr. Dinkins appointed the panel on May 25, the same day that the three private members of the control board issued their critical statement -- the first time in 11 years that the private members had released such a statement.
The mayoral panel is to report back to Mr. Dinkins with its recommendations for broad actions to cut $2 billion a year from the city budget by Dec. 1, a month after the mayoral election. Donald Kummerfeld, a former deputy mayor who is a member of the panel, made it clear in a lengthy presentation to the control board that it would require "major changes" in the city government to produce such huge annual savings.
After Mr. Kummerfeld's remarks, Mr. Shuman, in his statement for the three private citizens, said, "We are encouraged by what we heard today from Mayor Dinkins and Don Kummerfeld."
 
Long-Term Problems
 He said the three board members were heartened to hear that the Mayor had committed himself to addressing the long-term problems, and that the city would no longer rely so heavily on the kind of nonrecurring revenues -- termed "one shots" by fiscal experts -- that it has used to solve short-term budget problems in recent years.
"We all agree that we can not repeat the kind of budget process which we had this year," Mr. Shuman said.
He also said he and other members were pleased that the Mayor had made substantial reductions in the budget in June and early July.
And he said that the goals of Mr. Kummerfeld's panel -- to propose large-scale changes that would save the city $2 billion a year through spending cuts and new revenues -- gave board members confidence in Mr. Dinkins's commitment to making bold, fundamental revisions in the city's finances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD (NYS) STATE FINANCIAL BANK-WATERFORD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS; ELECTIONS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; FINDER, ALAN RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



329 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Takes New Plunge Against Yen

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Aug. 13

 BODY:
The dollar continued its plunge against the Japanese yen in trading here today, hurtling downward toward an exchange rate of 100 yen to the dollar.
The dollar fell below 102 yen for the first time since modern exchange mechanisms were established after World War II. It was quoted as low as 101.80 yen early this afternoon before edging up to 102.35 yen later in the day, down 1.02 yen from the close of trading here on Thursday. 
 In late New York trading on Thursday, the dollar dipped to 102.91 yen, from 103.64 yen on Wednesday.
"This has all the signs of a pro-yen panic," Robert Alan Feldman, director of economic research for Salomon Brothers in Tokyo, said today.
Travelers and consumers who exchange money at less favorable rates than available on the currency market have already seen the dollar's value drop to less than 100 yen. At Tokyo hotels and at the currency exchange counters at Narita Airport, travelers were receiving 99.75 yen for each dollar today.
Propelling the yen's rise in the last two days was the release on Wednesday of figures showing that Japan's overall trade surplus for July had risen an unexpectedly sharp 28 percent from a year earlier. Its trade surplus with the United States was up 23 percent.
The figures fueled speculation that the United States might push for an even stronger yen to help cut the surplus, although Washington is no longer saying publicly that it wants the yen to strengthen. In addition, the surpluses leave Japanese companies with an excess of dollars they must eventually sell to convert back to yen.
Analysts said the yen has also been benefiting from its image as a safe haven from the currency turmoil in Europe.
Japanese officials raised new alarms today that the appreciation of the yen would make Japan's automobile and electronics exports less competitive and delay an economic recovery. Already, many analysts and industry executives have given up on a recovery occurring this year, a sharp departure from the sentiment a few months ago when some analysts were saying the economy had hit bottom.
The yen's rise is also prompting Japanese industries to move more production to other nations, spurring fears that Japan will lose manufacturing jobs.
"It is a serious situation," Hirohisa Fujii, the Finance Minister, said at a news conference this morning. He said Japan and other leading industrial nations should cooperate to stabilize currencies. Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa also expressed concern about the situation.
 
Up 18 Percent This Year
 However, Japanese officials have been making similar statements all year, but the yen has strengthened 18 percent since the end of 1992, when it traded at 124.65 to the dollar.
The Bank of Japan was reported to have intervened in the market today to buy dollars and sell yen. One currency trader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that most of the demand for yen was coming from speculators outside Japan.
"We don't see much dollar selling by Japanese clients," he said. Many businesses here are closed this week for a traditional summer holiday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (93%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); ELECTRONICS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); WORLD WAR II (57%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



330 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
A New Jersey court approved a plan to rehabilitate the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, the largest life insurer ever to fail in the United States. Under the plan, the company's 700,000 customers will have full access to their money after a waiting period of up to seven years. [Page A1.]
Shares of T2 Medical plummeted nearly 35 percent after the company said its earnings in the first and second quarters were far lower than previously announced because of "certain accounting irregularities and errors." [D1.] 
 Continental Airlines won't appeal Tuesday's verdict acquitting American Airlines of setting "predatory" prices with the purpose of driving Continental and Northwest Airlines out of business. [D3.]
Caterpillar will halt production of bulldozers for two weeks next month at its East Peoria, Ill., plant. [D3.]
Mercedes-Benz and BMW are planning to produce tiny, environmentally friendly city cars. [D3.]
I.B.M. is suing Conner Peripherals, accusing it of infringing I.B.M. patents for disk-drive technology. [D3.]
A Federal judge ruled that Borland International infringed copyrights held by Lotus Development. [D2.]
Du Pont reached a $4.24 million out-of-court settlement with four growers who contended that the company's fungicide had damaged their crops. [A10.]
The Hertz Corporation named Craig R. Koch, a longtime executive, as president and chief operating officer. [D3.]
General Electric agreed to compensate New York commercial fishermen because of PCB contamination of Hudson River spawning grounds for striped bass. [B5.]
 
The Economy
Government data showed a continuing weak economy in which inflation is abating and retail sales have increased only sluggishly. That is good news for bond investors and for Clinton Administration officials counting on low interest rates. [D1.]
Floundering boat makers may have found a lifeline in a flat marine market. Several manufacturers have turned from monohull production to building catamarans, which are sailboats with two hulls, and trimarans, which have three hulls. [D1.]
Canadian worries have emerged as a sticking point in the negotiation of essential side accords to the North American Free Trade Agreement. [D1.]
Many of the nation's major lenders failed to serve minority areas, according to Ralph Nader's public interest group. [D2.]
 
International
South Korea announced anti-corruption measures, banning all financial transactions under false names. [D2.]
 
Markets
Stocks slipped on concerns over interest rates. The Dow industrials fell 14.26 points, to 3,569.09. [D4.]
The Treasury's auction of 30-year bonds did not go well, despite better-than-expected news on inflation. [D12.]
The dollar continued its dive against the yen, falling to another postwar low as investors decided the Japanese trade surplus would keep that nation's currency strong. [D1.]
Gold prices dropped sharply again on a decline in the Producer Price Index, and soybean prices plunged after a surprising Government crop report. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
An expansion strategy by a troubled company wins over Wall Street. Market Place. [D4.]
A new book teaches about ideas and the creative process. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (67%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE CO (91%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (67%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); T2 MEDICAL INC (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MARINE VESSELS (86%); CURRENCIES (84%); VERDICTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); AUCTIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BOAT BUILDING (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUDGES (73%); PATENTS (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); FISHES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (64%); JAPANESE YEN (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); ACCOUNTING (55%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (53%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



331 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Trying Out New Image: The Combative Giuliani

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
Shoulders hunched, his lips pursed, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate for mayor, punched and swiped at City Hall this week like a shadowboxer chafing to go glove to glove. After initially holding to a campaign memorable mostly for its positive visions of a future filled with safe streets, good schools and an expanding job base, Mr. Giuliani suddenly shifted his strategy by relying on a combination of put-downs, cold humor and even a slick background paper on the city's slow demise -- complete with graphs.
By week's end he had painted a vivid picture: that of a Mayor who is out of touch or often out on tennis courts, disengaged from the details of running the nation's largest city and prone to giving unwavering support to inefficient subordinates at badly managed agencies. Mayor David N. Dinkins, he asserted, has created a government that cannot meet a deadline, is riddled with incompetence and devoid of ideas. 
 "In the last few years, we've seen the basic quality of the management of the city decline," he told supporters early in the week. The greatest achievement of the Dinkins years, he said at another stop, has been the creation of an administration "effective at finding excuses for failure."
It was an older, more familiar Rudy Giuliani on the stump. While ads pounded away at his new image as a kinder, gentler candidate (still stung by childhood injustices and ever loyal to the Yankees), last week he sought out one group after another to court votes and bare his teeth.
 
A Warning Flare
 The reason for the shift toward a more combative strategy may be found in poll results that show him neck and neck with the Mayor and the numbers essentially static. Or it could just be a natural release of tension from a candidate who shouted, "Shut up! Shut up!" to supporters on the night of his defeat in 1989 and shouted epithets at a police rally at City Hall. Either way, the oratory marked a shift in tone and sent a warning flare to City Hall.
Through the week the Mayor mostly rode above the squall, stopping to interrupt his schedule only to scoff at the charges or defend his programs and progress. But staff members released a flurry of paper to counter specific charges and alert reporters to every perceived inaccuracy.
After Mr. Giuliani charged that the Mayor had pumped up the city's budget with $55 million in anticipated revenue from the sale of the Offtrack Betting Corporation, Edward Lewis, OTB's chairman, sent the candidate a three-page letter in which he countered Mr. Giuliani's assertions point by careful point.
 
'The Real Facts'
 "I am presenting here, for the record, the real facts, to stop this nonsense once and for all," he wrote. He contradicted Mr. Giuliani's contention that OTB is losing money and said Hazel N. Dukes, its president, has reduced operating expenses by $12 million, cut the work force by 19 percent, computerized the payroll and closed marginal branches.
When Mr. Giuliani attacked the Mayor's budget, a news release was out by dusk comparing "Giuliani claims" with City Hall "facts" and ridiculing him for calling the national recession "brief and mild." But the harshest cut was the counter that Mr. Giuliani, "in an attempt to fuel his campaign with some substance," had in fact modified City Hall programs and called them his own.
"Actually, they changed their story," Cristyne Lategano, Mr. Giuliani's press secretary, said the next day. "First they said his plan was all wrong. Then they complained that it was their plan all along."
The sparring left the Dinkins administration on the defensive and Mr. Giuliani elated. By dawn yesterday the challenger sounded almost out of breath on a morning radio show. "The mayoralty has grown out of control," he said on "Rambling With Gambling" on WOR-AM. "He has a kind of imperial style."
Hours later, he was cheered in a drizzle as he accepted the endorsement of the Uniformed Firefighters Association and charged that the administration was "incapable of doing anything even remotely on time."
Only rarely did Mr. Giuliani mention the incumbent by name. He didn't have to. Instead, he spoke of tennis courts and administrative bloat and then repeated his new mantra of good management.
When he left the campaign spotlight this week, he often relinquished it to surrogates with the same theme. Herman Badillo and Susan D. Alter, two Democrats who have joined the Giuliani campaign to run for comptroller and public advocate, appeared with him as his financial plan was unveiled. Both have agreed with charges that City Hall is overstaffed and inefficient and have vowed to cut their staffs by 10 percent, if elected, to match Mr. Giuliani's pledge to make cuts in the mayor's office.
But Mr. Giuliani's most colorful backer, and the one who seems to have an almost innate touch for New York City politics, was Curtis Sliwa, the head of the Guardian Angels, who rides the Giuliani wave at many public gatherings, his red beret bobbing above a sea of dark suits.
 
'Really Out of Touch'
 In Brighton Beach last weekend, Mr. Sliwa praised Mr. Giuliani, then took a city-sized poke at the Mayor. "There are these people who act like they would rather not be in New York," he said. "They'd rather be at a banquet at night with a cummerbund or maybe out hitting a tennis ball."
Leah Johnson, Mr. Dinkins's campaign press secretary, said Mr. Giuliani's assaults this week were filled with distortions and untruths. "Mr. Giuliani's recent commercials show that he is the one who is really out of touch," she said. "Mr. Giuliani is harkening back to some past time and manipulating nostalgia rather than really talking about the future."
The Mayor, she said, has spent four years working in the neighborhoods of the city to rebuild communities and strengthen the city. "Mr. Giuliani has done nothing in the neighborhoods in that time," she said. "He just is trying to get people to feel sentimental about the way things were."
Still more irritating, she said, was Mr. Giuliani's campaign promise to slash 35,000 jobs from city payrolls. "His whole financial plan is just a lesson in municipal Reaganism," she said. "His proposals are simply ludicrous."
If Mr. Giuliani kept his pledge to cut jobs while preserving services for children, public safety and cultural affairs, she said, he could not meet his quota. "If you deduct all those things, there are only 9,000 employees left for aging, health, transportation, sanitation, housing, general services, the Department of Investigation, corporation counsel, building and several other agencies," she said. "It's impossible."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PUBLIC OPINION MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



332 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Now, Canada Objects on Trade Pact

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, Aug. 12

 BODY:
Canadian concerns have emerged as a sticking point for the first time in the negotiation of side agreements for the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Prime Minister Kim Campbell has rejected a compromise crafted by her own negotiators on labor and environmental safeguards for the accord, apparently resisting giving import-blocking power to United States companies that could be used against Canada. Analysts also said she was taking the tough stance partly for domestic political reasons. 
 Ms. Campbell is expected to speak by phone with President Clinton in a last-minute effort to resolve sticking points, Canadian officials said today.
"We have a bit of an impasse with our partners in the negotiations," she told reporters in Ottawa.
 
Positive Cast
 The Prime Minister said she hoped that the matter could be resolved "because I think we'd like to move ahead with the agreements."
Most aspects of the North American trade accord that have been viewed as problems in the United States have involved Mexico. Canada's cooperative role was more or less assumed; Washington and Ottawa already have their own accord, which took effect at the end of 1988.
The hardening now of Ottawa's position appeared to block plans by the trade chiefs of Canada, the United States and Mexico to initial an agreement in the next few days.
The Canadian stance was disclosed as reports from Mexico City indicated still another impasse, this time over pressure by the United States and Canada for the right to sue Mexico in its own courts for noncompliance with proposed environmental safeguards. A Mexican Government document obtained by the Reuters news agency said the possibility of suits "attacks the concept of sovereignty and is, as such, inadmissible."
The three Governments have been working for months on side agreements intended to appease American critics of the broad accord. The critics insist on some formula that could lead to trade sanctions against companies found to abuse national labor or environmental standards. Their main objective is to prevent Mexico from using the accord to attract companies that pay exploitative-level wages or pollute the air or water.
While Washington has insisted on binding provisions in the side agreements, Ottawa has resisted proposals that put new tools that could block imports in the hands of American companies. It fears that these might be turned not just against Mexico, but against Canada as well. "Our position is that they're quite unnecessary," Ms. Campbell said, adding that disputes were best resolved by using the Canadian legal system.
More than three-quarters of Canada's trade is with the United States, and Canadians are already nettled by American actions against important exports like steel, wheat and lumber.
"I think the Canadian Government is very keen on having a deal, but it cannot sell one to the public and to industry that increases our exposure to American protectionism," said Daniel Schwanen of the C. D. Howe Institute, a research institute here.
Canada's Parliament has already ratified the basic agreement, which would convert North America into a free-trade area of 360 million consumers with a combined gross domestic product of perhaps $6 trillion. Lower trade barriers, proponents of the accord say, would increase business opportunities and bolster growth and employment in all three nations.
President Clinton said during the fall campaign that the side agreements were pivotal in his support of the agreement. Some top Democrats in Congress say they will oppose the pact if the side deals do not require Mexico to overhaul labor rules and stiffen environmental protection.
Canadian analysts said they thought Ms. Campbell, who has been in office less than two months and faces elections by the end of October, was trying to establish credibility with the public. Standing up to Washington would hardly hurt that kind of strong image.
"There is certainly a little posturing in all this," said Alasdair Sinclair, a trade expert at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He and many others are convinced that Canada, having gone this far in the talks, will not back out, and that it is simply a question of finding an appropriate formula.
The dispute focuses on the power of the three-nation commissions that would identify infringements of labor and environmental standards. Under a Canadian proposal, the panels could fine a guilty party. Only as a last resort would trade sanctions be permitted.
But though this idea originated with her Trade Secretary, Tom Hockin, Ms. Campbell said it was not good enough and authorized an official to state her position to journalists. To some this suggested a rift with Mr. Hockin, though that could not be confirmed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Hockin, the Canadian Trade Secretary, speaking after the last face-to-face talks with his United States and Mexican counterparts. (George Tames for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES; MEXICO CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LABOR; ENVIRONMENT; CORPORATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: CAMPBELL, KIM (PRIME MIN); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



333 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: G.E. to Pay Fishermen Over Polluted Striped-Bass Waters

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, L.I., Aug. 12

 BODY:
Ending an eight-year fight, the General Electric Corporation has agreed to compensate New York commercial fishermen for income they lost because of PCB contamination of Hudson River spawning grounds for striped bass.
Under an agreement reached out of court Wednesday night, G.E. will pay up to a total of $7 million to 300 to 400 fishermen, including as many as 150 eastern Long Island baymen, who can prove they lost income as a result of a state ban on fishing for striped bass from 1986 to 1990 in marine waters off Long Island, and since 1976 in the Hudson River. 
 For 30 years until 1977, General Electric dumped PCB's into the Hudson, and only last month the company agreed to stem a new flow of PCB's into the river from a plant in Hudson Falls, 35 miles north of Albany.
The river is a major spawning ground for striped bass, a delicacy that once accounted for a large part of the yearly income for hundreds of commercial fishermen, including the dwindling number of full-time baymen on eastern Long Island plying a livelihood that dates from the Colonial period.
 
Lobster Pots or an Outboard
 "It's become an ever more difficult task to live a life full-time on the water," said Arnold Leo, the secretary of the East Hampton Town Baymen's Association. "This money could help buy a new truck, or get some lobster pots or a new outboard motor."
The company said it agreed to the settlement in part because the legal action had lasted eight years and "would take at least another decade to conclude." The plaintiffs included eastern Long Island baymen and fishermen from New York City and the Hudson Valley.
The company said it had agreed to create a fund of $7 million for claims made by the fishermen, which will be evaluated by a court-appointed neutral referee.
"Only those claimants who can demonstrate real economic loss will receive any money from the fund," G.E. said. There will be a cap on payments to individuals, the company said, but it did not give the amount.
 
Company Admits Little
 A G.E. spokesman, Jack T. Batty, declined to disclose whether the company faced other PCB-related lawsuits or had entered into other settlements stemming from the dumping of PCB's into the Hudson River from the late 1940's until 1977, when the company voluntary ceased the practice. He said the settlement did not mean the company was admitting that the PCB dumping may have caused damage to striped bass or lost income for the fishermen.
Congress banned the manufacture of PCBs, short for polychlorinated biphenyls, in 1978 after research showed that the chemical, which was used as an insulator in transformers, was highly toxic to fish and other animals.
The State Department of Environmental Conservation imposed a ban on commercial fishing for striped bass after amounts of PCB in the fish were found to exceed Federal limits, which were set at 5 parts per million in the late 1970's and lowered to 2 parts per million in 1986.
PCB, which is also a suspected carcinogen, was found to have accumulated in the fatty tissue of striped bass caught in the Hudson, New York Harbor and Long Island Sound and off the South Shore of Long Island. The fishermen say the chemical entered the fishes' food chain in the spawning grounds.
 
From Carolinas Northward
 After spawning in Hudson riverbeds, the maturing striped bass swim south into the East River, into New York Harbor and east into Long Island Sound and the Atlantic Ocean. They range near the coastline from the Carolinas northward, and also spawn in large numbers in Chesapeake Bay.
Mr. Leo of the East Hampton Baymen's Association and several other commercial fishermen were plaintiffs in a suit filed against G.E. in State Supreme Court here. The trial was to have begun on Aug. 19, but was postponed. The judge in the case, State Supreme Court Justice Mary Werner, must act on the settlement.
General Electric has said for years that PCB was discharged into the Hudson River from its plants in Hudson Falls and Fort Edward under permits granted by New York State.
In June, the owner of an industrial site in Albany, Vantrano Realty, sued G.E., complaining that a state-approved PCB cleanup plan the company is carrying out would fail to clean up the site. The suit is pending in State Supreme Court in Albany.
 
Settlement Cheers Baymen
 News of the settlement bolstered the eastern Long Island baymen. They have bitterly complained that state regulations have sharply limited the number of striped bass commercial fishermen may take during the season from July to November.
"It's just crazy that we are allowed to harvest so few of them," said Mr. Leo, who objected to state regulations allowing sport fishermen to catch up to one fish a day from May to December. He said the commercial limit for the baymen was set at 46 fish each season despite the abundance of the fish in offshore waters this summer.
Gordon C. Colvin, the director of marine resources for the department, said the restrictions on eastern Long Island were part of a conservation effort agreed to by 13 East Coast states where stripers range.
"There is no question that there is a substantial increase in the number of striped bass going on right now," said Mr. Colvin. "But that is exactly what is intended by the cooperative management program the states have agreed to."

GRAPHIC: Maps show the location of the spawning grounds for striped bass on the Hudson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUDSON RIVER; LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB); STRIPED BASS; FINANCES WATER POLLUTION (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (90%); FISHES (90%); CHLORINE (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); FISHING LAW (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); FISHERIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



334 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Sometimes a Great Notion in a Prospectus Is Only That.

BYLINE: By Kurt Eichenwald

 BODY:
FEW things spook investors more than a company that goes insolvent. After all, earnings are the centerpiece of the stock investment game, and if a public company cannot even meet its financial obligations, investors run for the hills.
But with the gambling mentality of investors in 1993, a private company that is insolvent and is looking to pull itself out of the hole with public investment capital often looks just dandy. So it was with Hillside Bedding Inc., a retail mattress company based in the Bronx, that went public in February. 
 Hillside admitted in its prospectus that it repeatedly was unable to pay its financial obligations and that it was insolvent at the time of the offering. But, the prospectus said, the offering would change all that as the company used the money to settle old debts and start a huge expansion of its stores.
The expansion strategy won over the marketplace. At the offering, investors plunked down $17.20 for each unit that consisted of one share of common stock, one share of preferred stock and two warrants. The common stock began trading in the $8 range.
How are investors doing with their bet on the expansion strategy? The common share price has dropped sharply, but that could hardly be attributed to expansion: Hillside abandoned the strategy not long after it came public. And the company has not yet come around to letting its investors know.
In its prospectus, the company, which operates in metropolitan New York, listed some 20 stores it has in the region. A check of those stores showed that 12 -- or 60 percent of those in operation some six months ago -- are no longer open. Investment bankers who work with the company confirm that 12 stores have closed although they add that Hillside has also opened a few stores.
That could only be disappointing news for investors who were looking for the results of that expansion. Already, investors have seen their holdings shrink. Hillside stock, which reached a high last month of $10 a share, has been falling in recent weeks, closing yesterday at $3.875, down 25 cents in Nasdaq trading. That collapse has largely been the result of disappointment about the cancellation, by mutual agreement, of a foreign stock offering announced in May.
How can a company that was supposed to be growing actually be shrinking? Morton Swirsky, Hillside's chief financial officer, was said to be out of the office yesterday, and other executives did not return a telephone message.
But the company's investment bankers said Hillside simply decided to switch strategies -- something the company apparently planned to do all along, regardless of what the prospectus said.
"One thing Hillside didn't disclose in its prospectus, and I don't think it had to disclose, was its intention to operate differently in the New York market," said Keith Gil, a senior partner with Duke & Company, the investment banking firm that brought Hillside public. "Just opening more stores is not the answer."
That will surely come as a shock to anyone who has read the prospectus. "The company believes that its failure to operate profitably in the periods referred to above has been due, in part, to its inability to achieve economies of scale based on the number of company-owned stores in operation during those periods," the prospectus states in reference to the times the company failed to pay its bills. In other words, Hillside was going broke because it did not have enough stores.
These days, the company is talking about a joint venture with a competitor, Dial-a-Mattress. And it is rethinking its strategy in other ways that it has yet to announce.
"They feel and I feel that in the future they will be doing certain things that make it clear why they are closing stores," Mr. Gil said. "When that happens, people will know about it."
Let's hope that the strategy is something in which the investors actually want to invest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HILLSIDE BEDDING INC

ORGANIZATION: HILLSIDE BEDDING INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS (CORPORATE); FINANCES COMMON STOCK (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



335 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Sailing's New Course: Multihulls

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD

 BODY:
The racing multihull has a formidable reputation in sailing, one of lightning speeds and scary rides. But a less intimidating breed of cruising boat is emerging, one that has become a lifeline for companies foundering in a flat marine market.
Several boat makers have turned from monohull production to building catamarans, which are sailboats with two hulls, and trimarans, which have three hulls. 
 The new multihulls are being redesigned with the cruising sailor in mind. They have roomy cabins built over the hulls, full galley areas, one or more staterooms -- instead of open bunks -- for sleeping, and full heads.
For some builders, the new direction seems to be working. Island Packet Yachts, a sailboat manufacturer in Largo, Fla., came out with the first multihull in its traditionally monohull boat line last October. Bill Bolin, the marketing manager for the company, said it had 21 orders for its $225,000 35-foot catamaran.
 
'A Big Boost'
 "In dollar value, the cats are now 40 percent of our business," Mr. Bolin added. "It has been a big boost."
Part of the selling job for manufacturers is in overcoming a public perception that multihulls are too wild for the average sailor. Pushed to the extremes, a racing multihull can be demanding. With nets stretched from hull to hull instead of a solid deck, such a multihull requires a trampoline artist to get from side to side.
Cam Lewis, a professional yacht racer from Vinalhaven, Me., recently sailed with a French crew in a record-setting 80-day voyage around the world. Mr. Lewis later described what it was like to cross the netting of their boat, an 86-foot catamaran, on a bad day: "It's like walking on a water bed in the back of a pick-up truck driven by a crazed teen-ager in New York City on a rainy winter night at rush hour," he wrote in Sailing World magazine.
But the new designs in multihulls require far less frantic sailing than their racing cousins. Multihulls ride on top of the waves like a waterbug, rather than pushing through the water as a monohull does, so there is less resistance. A multihull will stay relatively flat at sea rather than heeling, or leaning on its side, as a monohull with a keel will do.
The cruising multihulls are not as sleek as most of the all-out racers. But they also have less tendency to bury a bow in a wave, or sail like a hobbyhorse over choppy seas. And they still tend to be faster than a monohull of equal size.
Hugh Taylor of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., had sailed monohulls for 32 years, then switched to a 50-foot catamaran last year. His brother, the singer James Taylor, still sails a traditional wooden boat, but Hugh Taylor wants nothing of it. He charters his new catamaran, a custom design by Chris White of South Dartmouth, Mass., taking tourists to nearby islands accessible mainly by boat. In the winter, he plans to take the cat to the Bahamas for his own use.
"I'll never go back," Mr. Taylor said recently about his fondness for catamarans over monohulls. "Catamarans are fast, and don't take on any water. They are dry and stable. The stigma of them being capsizing boats is wrong."
 
An Increase in Popularity
 Mr. Taylor is one of a growing number of boaters enamored with the multihull. Sally Helme, a spokeswoman for International Marine Holdings, a consortium of marine accessories companies, which is based in Stamford, Conn., said her group had seen an increase in the popularity of multihulls in the last five years.
Ms. Helme said fewer than 10 percent of the 14,510 new sailboats built in 1988 were multihulls, compared with 12 percent to 15 percent of the 10,583 sailboats built in 1992. More significant than the numbers was the shift in the size. In 1988, at least 97 percent of the multihulls built were less than 20 feet long. In 1992, new multihulls were larger, with fewer than 60 percent in the 20-foot range.
Corsair Marine, of Chula Vista, Calif., went into business in 1986 for the sole purpose of producing trimarans. At that time the boating market was beginning to show the signs of a nose dive, a plunge that went off the deep end in 1989. But Corsair has weathered the slump comfortably.
It has sold 500 trimarans since then. They vary from a $40,000 24-foot boat to a $58,000 27-foot trimaran fully outfitted. The boat design includes a unique system for folding the two outer hulls, or amas, into the center hull so they collapse like gull wings when the trimaran is transported by trailer.
Sailboats make up 3 percent to 4 percent of the boats sold in the United States, according to the National Marine Manufacturers Association, based in Chicago, which tracks mostly powerboat sales, and International Marine, based in Stamford, Conn., the sailboat arm of the industry.
 
Far From Healthy
 The sales numbers are down from the industry's high point in 1988, when 14,510 sailboats were sold. In 1992, 10,583 sailboats were sold, up from the 8,672 in 1991. But the market is far from healthy.
Boating analysts have attributed the stagnant sales to the recession and the 10 percent luxury tax imposed in 1990 on new boats with price tags of more than $100,000.
The manufacturer's association had estimated that the tax, which has reduced sales of big powerboats and sailboats, cost the marine industry more than 20,000 jobs. The tax was repealed in President Clinton's tax package that passed last week, largely to rectify the job losses.
With full recovery a distant dream for the 112 sailboat manufacturers still in business in the United States, multihulls offer new opportunities.
PDQ Yachts, based in Whitby, Ontario, has also used the multihull to build a new business in lean times. John Farrow, the general manager of the PDQ office in Annapolis, Md., said the company had to expand its range of catamarans -- adding a third model to its line of 36-footers -- to keep up.
"This is the first year catamarans have gone mainstream," he said about the boats' growing prominence on the Annapolis waterfront.
Not everyone shares this optimistic view. Everett Pearson, a boat builder in Warren, R.I., and the president of a new sailing industry trade group, the American Sail Advancement Program, said most of the catamarans sold in the last few years were going into the charter boat industry.
"There really isn't that big a market," Mr. Pearson said.
 
Boats for Private Use
 Mr. Bolin of Island Packet Yachts disagreed. He said all but two of the buyers of the company's new 35-foot catamarans had bought the boats for private use.
"We were amazed at the inquiries after we announced the boat to the public last July," Mr. Bolin said. "We are still getting inquiries, two-to-one, the catamaran over our monohulls." Island Packet produces five monohull models, from 29 to 44 feet.
At $225,000 fully equipped, the catamaran is about $60,000 more than the company's 35-foot monohull. But the catamaran is almost as roomy as Island Packet's 44-foot monohull, which costs about $255,000.
Jeanneau, a French company that is one of the biggest boat builders in the world, with $100 million in sales last year, introduced its first multihull to the United States market, the Lagoon 37, last year. Since then, it has sold 22 of the $230,000 boats.
"There is an escalation of interest," said Wayne Burdick, the director of Jeanneau North America in New London, Conn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corsair Marine has sold 500 trimarans since 1989, costing from $40,000 to $58,000. The Corsair F-24 trimaran, above, is an example. (Corsair Marine)
 
Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ISLAND PACKET YACHTS SAILING WORLD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISLAND PACKET YACHTS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CATAMARANS; TRIMARANS (BOAT); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES SAILING (90%); BOAT BUILDING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); BOAT RACING (78%); CATS (73%); 

PERSON: LLOYD, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



336 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Despite Rain, Denver Is a Mile High for the Pope

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 12

 BODY:
There was rain, thunder and lightning, even a double rainbow in the evening sky.
But the skies could do nothing to compare with the exhilaration that filled Mile High Stadium upon the arrival of Pope John Paul II. For hours, young Catholics attending the World Youth Day events here this week had been streaming into the stadium, where they swayed, sang, clapped and danced to throbbing music from nations around the world. 
 The tension erupted into ear-splitting cheers for each step of the Pope's arrival: the helicopters setting down outside the stadium, the slow progress of the Popemobile inside and the opening of Pope John Paul's greeting: "I greet you all in the name of Jesus Christ. He is the way, the truth -- and the life!"
Separate sections of the stadium broke into flurries of shouts and flag-waving as the Pope named individual countries with young representatives at the event and offered greetings in different languages.
Jennifer Clifford, a 20-year-old junior at South Dakota State University who lives in Martin, S.D., struggled to explain her excitement. "You know how teen-agers go ga-ga over rock stars," she said. "Well, he's the rock star of our church."
There was religious seriousness amid the celebration. "Of course we are here to listen to one another, I to you and you to the Pope," the Pope told his audience. "But above all we are in Denver to hear the one true Word of Life." He asked the young people to give up their Friday midday meal and contribute its cost to an African hospital serving AIDS patients.
 
Hymns on Wheels
 As she boarded the 16th Street bus this morning, Monica Lonardo could tell it was no ordinary rush hour in Denver.
"People were singing hymns," said the 22-year-old jewelry saleswoman. "On the bus! At 8:30 in the morning!"
Songs echoed through downtown Denver in dozens of languages today, even during the rain, as 160,000 Roman Catholics from 70 countries celebrated the arrival of Pope John Paul II for World Youth Day. "Some people are so happy they cry," said Birgitte Nyavist, a 15-year-old German girl, who wore a floppy cowboy hat and a pair of new blue jeans.
To earn money for the trip here, Miss Nyavist said she tended her grandparents garden and cleaned their house for months. Other visitors said they held bake sales and went door to door for donations.
After the Americans, who are represented by 120,000 people here, the largest contingent is from Italy, with 12,000, followed by Spain and Canada, with about 7,000 each, and Mexico with 6,000. There are three participants here from Angola, and two from Ethiopia.
Many of the young Catholics wore T-shirts that read "I Got a Mile High With the Pope" and foam-rubber headgear cut in the likeness of a papal miter. And they shouted and waved and gave thumbs-up signs to other groups.
"Where are you from?" shouted a boy in one group. "We're from North Dakota."
"Italy," came the answer.
And there followed a round of applause for both Rome and Fargo.
Many of the foreign visitors arrived in the United States a week or so before the Pope's appearance. Nicole Widman, an 18-year-old from Lucerne, Switzerland, ticked off the big events on her trip across the West. "Hollywood studios, Grand Canyon, Rocky Mountains," she said, "and the Pope, of course."
 
Nothing to Sweep Up
 It has been called the "Catholic Woodstock," but it bears more resemblance to a well-mannered field trip.
The police have had virtually no disturbances to quell, despite the huge crowds.
Dean Dominguez, a janitor who usually spends the noon hour sweeping the sidewalk and collecting the garbage near his office building, instead was leaning on a broom, marveling at the tidiness of the visitors.
"These people are so neat and clean it's unbelievable," said Mr. Dominguez, who figured that littering must be considered a serious sin. "There's nothing to sweep up. They see a scrap, they pick it up. I've never seen anything like it."
 
They Must Be Fasting
 To hear the disappointed restaurant managers tell it, the young Catholics came to Denver with the Ten Commandments and a $10 bill -- and they're determined not to break either one.
"Business is off drastically," said Chris Myers, the owner of the Crocodile Cafe, which is usually packed at lunchtime, but today had plenty of empty tables. "All the Denver people got scared away by the hype and figured, 'We better get out of Dodge.'
"Meanwhile, we've got all these kids in town with no money. And the few 'papal people,' as we call them, come in and order the cheapest thing on the menu, and water. Of course, they're more into praying than boozing."
The World Youth Day gathering was expected to pump nearly $150 million into the local economy. Instead, stores and restaurants were sending workers home.
Tourism officials said it was all worth it, however, especially given the publicity to Denver from the 3,000 journalists here.
"People who have never thought much about Denver are watching their televisions and seeing the sun over the Rocky Mountains," said Rich Grant, a spokesman for the Convention and Visitors Bureau. "We couldn't buy this kind of attention."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Cass, a World Youth Day delegate from Pierre, S.D., wearing a foam-rubber version of a papal miter and looking for a souvenir T-shirt. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); ANGOLA (76%); ETHIOPIA (53%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); PIERRE, SD, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH MILE HIGH LAW OFFICE LLC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DENVER (COLO) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); ANGOLA (76%); ETHIOPIA (53%); COLORADO, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); PIERRE, SD, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); MUSIC (89%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); HELICOPTERS (55%); AIDS & HIV (51%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



337 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Hails Midwest Courage Against the Flood

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Aug. 12

 BODY:
President Clinton today made his fourth trip this summer to the Midwest, this time to sign legislation providing $6.2 billion in Federal assistance to farmers and other victims of the record flooding there.
Mr. Clinton also paid tribute to the heroism of ordinary Americans in responding to the crisis. Among 19 citizens from nine states whom he honored was a 32-year-old maid from North Dakota who dived into a flooded basement apartment to rescue a trapped resident. 
 The President called such courage representative of a spirit that helped to avert wider disaster. Although the worst of the flooding is over, he said the region would continue to need help as it struggled to recover.
"It is easy to forget that much of the work remains to be done," Mr. Clinton said. He urged Americans to "allow our humanity to help reclaim the lives that are shattered."
The Federal aid package will grant reimbursements for some crops lost under high water and provide for the rebuilding of public works and housing ruined by the floods. The size of the aid more than doubled from $2.5 billion as the bill made its way through Congress, but even that will fall far short of covering the total damages, now estimated at more than $12 billion.
 
Borrowing in Emergency
 A fact sheet distributed by the White House listed $5.7 billion in new spending to be provided under the bill, but aides to Mr. Clinton said the measure would also allow about $500 million in money already appropriated by Congress to be devoted to flood relief.
Because Mr. Clinton insisted that since the flood was an emergency its costs should not be borne by tax increases or spending cuts. The Government will have to borrow money to pay for the relief package, meaning that its cost will be added to the budget deficit.
Mr. Clinton stopped in St. Louis on the way to Denver for his meeting with Pope John Paul II. The President is on his way to Oakland, Calif., as he begins a weeklong trip combining business with some vacation.
Those who received the Presidential commendations were selected by the governors of their states, but Mr. Clinton brought his wife, Hillary, and his daughter, Chelsea, to lend a personal touch to the celebration. He admired the tie of one man and accepted T-shirts, a cap and a coin from others as he mingled with 17 of the recipients and with the relatives of another, a National Guardsman who died in an accident as he assisted in the flood relief.
 
Varieties of Heroism
 The 14 men and 5 women were from North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin and Illinois, the states hurt the most by the floods.
They included a South Dakota man, Doug Koch, who rescued victims on his Jet Ski, and a Nebraska state trooper, Mike McCann, who saved a family of seven threatened with drowning as their van was swept by flood waters.
Donna Marie Harsche, the North Dakota maid who was among the honorees, climbed through a below-ground window and went under the water to pull a man to safety on July 15 as his basement apartment filled with water from a flash flood.
Mr. Clinton, whose departure from Washington followed several trying weeks, said the flood could serve as a metaphor for any disaster.
With the record high waters, Mr. Clinton suggested, nature had once again issued a reminder "that we need to live our lives with a little more humility and always understanding that we are not in full control."
 
Revealing Reactions
 He declared, "How we face these misfortunes tells us a lot about ourselves and our friends." And he called upon Americans to salute the heroes of the flood "by firm resolve to go back about the business our daily lives as Americans, rolling up our sleeves and not wringing our hands."
"We know we cannot contain the fury of a river," Mr. Clinton said. "But we can and we must allow our humanity to overflow as well, to help to reclaim the lives that are shattered. That is what I have seen happen here in the Midwest."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Heavy Rains in Flood Areas
 By The Associated Press
 Still staggering from weeks of flooding, the upper Mississippi River Valley, was hit with a new round of heavy rain early yesterday that caused flash flooding, closed roads and evacuations.
Storms dumped up to 10 inches of rain in some sections of Minnesota and deluged parts of Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois.
"If anybody's got a direct line to the Lord, tell him we surrender," said Pete Staude, general manager of the newly reopened Capitol Plaza Hotel in Jefferson City, Mo.
Rainfall of 5.5 inches early yesterday left 3 to 4 feet of water in the hotel's parking lot. The hotel had reopened on Monday after being closed for 11 days because flood waters blocked its doors.
The National Weather Service reported rainfall up to 8 inches from about 10 P.M. Wednesday to 3 A.M. yesterday in parts of Missouri hit hard by flooding over the past month. In Iowa, thunderstorms dumped 2 to 4 inches of rain across the southern and central parts of the state Wednesday night, flooding streets in Des Moines.


GRAPHIC: In signing the flood-relief bill yesterday, President Clinton made available billions of dollars in aid. These are the highlights of the bill:
 
$2.35 billion to the Commodity Credit Corporation for crop-loss payments to farmers.
 
$2 billion to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for disaster relief. The money goes to repairing public buildings temporary housing, and grants to people to compensate for personal property losses.
 
$389 million in Small Business Administration loans
 
$235 million to the Army Corps of Engineers for repairing damage to Federal and local levees.
 
$200 million toward long-term recovery through the Economic Development Administration.
 
$200 million for disaster recovery planning with state and local agencies.
 
$175 million for highway repair.
 
$75 million for the Public Health and Social Service Emergency Fund of the Department of Health and Human Services for the repair of community health centers and migrant health centers.
 
$70 million to help flood-damaged schools.
 
$55 million for temporary jobs through the Job Training Partnership Act. Workers will help with repairs, clean-up and safety and health services.
 
$50 million for to the Deparment of Housing and Urban Development to buy and repair fix public housing.
 
$42 million for the Department of Agriculture for hiring temporary employees to handle crop disaster requests and help farmers with clean-up.
 
$41 million to the Interior Department's U.S.United States Geological Survey, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Park Service, the Historic Preservation Fund and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
 
$34 million for the Environmental Protection Agency.
 
$4 million for state youth and conservation corps programs to help with clean-ups.
 
$300,000 to the Legal Services Corporation to help victims with legal problems.
Chart: "Where the Flood Relief Will Go"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); MISSISSIPPI RIVER UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FEDERAL AID (US); FLOODS RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



338 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Closing Arguments Heard by Jury In a Trial of 2 Ex-Detroit Officers

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 12

 BODY:
A prosecutor argued today that the beating death of a drug suspect had resulted from the police asserting "raw and naked power," while a defense lawyer called it a "life-and-death struggle."
In closing arguments, the Wayne County assistant prosecutor, Doug Baker, described a former officer, 53-year-old Larry Nevers, as an aging Detroit policeman proving his virility when he repeatedly clubbed the suspect, Malice Green, over the head with his heavy metal flashlight. 
 "This is grim determination," Mr. Baker said. "He is not going to be bested by this man in front of anyone else. It's the assertion of raw and naked power over Malice Green."
 
'Flushed With Victory'
 When the beating was over, Mr. Nevers was "the picture of a man covered with blood, his club covered with blood, flushed with victory."
Mr. Nevers and his former partner, Walter Budzyn, 47, are charged with second-degree murder. They face a maximum penalty of life in prison if convicted.
Mr. Green, 35, died last Nov. 5 outside a suspected crack house. He was confronted in his parked car by former Officers Nevers and Budzyn, who asked for his driver's license.
Witnesses say the beating began when Mr. Green, an unemployed steelworker, refused to open his clenched fist, which various witnesses said held either drugs, keys or a scrap of paper.
"It's a contest of wills," Mr. Baker said of Mr. Nevers's response. "And he's got the club, and he's beating, and it's not going to stop. This was the ultimate abuse of power. The real crime of Malice Green was that he affronted power, he didn't obey."
 
'Life-and-Death Struggle'
 But Mr. Nevers's lawyer, John Goldpaugh, said Mr. Green had done more than disobey a command to open his clenched hand.
Mr. Nevers testified that Mr. Green had grabbed the handle of his gun. He said he had been defending himself when he hit Mr. Green over the head five or six times with his flashlight.
"In Officer Nevers's mind and in Officer Nevers's heart is a life-and-death struggle," Mr. Goldpaugh told jurors.
When Mr. Green could not get the gun, he grabbed for his pocket knife, but pulled out keys instead, Mr. Goldpaugh said.
Mr. Goldpaugh described his client as a brave and decent man devoted to law enforcement.
"No, he can't run as fast as he used to," Mr. Goldpaugh said. "I don't know if he could ever jump that high. But he had experience. He knew the precinct. He thought he was making a difference."
 
Third Officer Also Charged
 A third officer, Robert Lessnau, 33, who arrived on the scene later that night, is charged with assault with intent to do great bodily harm and faces a maximum penalty of up to 10 years in prison if convicted.
Arguments by Mr. Budzyn's lawyer are scheduled for Friday, with jury deliberation to start on Saturday. Arguments for Mr. Lessnau, whose fate will be decided by Judge George W. Crockett 3d of Detroit Recorder's Court, will be heard on Monday.
Judge Crockett agreed earlier this week that jurors could consider reduced charges of manslaughter against former Officers Budzyn and Nevers.
A fourth officer, Sgt. Freddie Douglas, faces trial later on a misdemeanor charge of willful neglect of duty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TRIALS; POLICE JURY TRIALS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); EYEWITNESSES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TESTIMONY (87%); WITNESSES (78%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); COCAINE (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MALICE; BUDZYN, WALTER; NEVERS, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



339 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Police Scandal Is Giving Germans an Inside Look at War Against Terrorists

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BERLIN, Aug. 12

 BODY:
A spectacular police scandal that has broken over Germany is giving people here their first inside look at the clandestine war between the police and terrorists that has been under way in this country for more than 20 years.
The scandal has all the elements of a spy thriller, complete with a top-level informant, a wild shootout at a rural train station and the prospect that two commandos from the country's most famous police squad may soon be charged with murder. 
 After a member of the terrorist Red Army Faction and a commando from the legendary GSG-9 police squad were killed in a botched ambush on June 27, Interior Minister Rudolf Seiters and the chief federal prosecutor, Alexander von Stahl, were forced out of their jobs. The scandal has continued to spread, and today prosecutors announced that they were considering charging two GSG-9 agents with "deliberate killing." Witnesses say one of the agents killed a Red Army member as he lay helpless in police custody.
In the wake of the June 27 assault, Germans have learned that for the first time in more than two decades of trying, detectives had managed to plant an informer inside the highly secretive Red Army Faction. They hoped that his work would ultimately allow them to stage a major operation aimed at destroying the group, but the June assault led to his unmasking and subsequent disappearance.
 
Bombing Allowed to Proceed
 The informer's work was considered so vital that when he told the police in March of terrorist plans to blow up a newly built prison, they allowed the attack to proceed rather than bring suspicion on him. The bombing virtually destroyed the prison, causing an estimated $100 million in damage.
Since the bloody shootout in June, much public attention has been focused on the figure of Klaus Steinmetz, 33, who for most of his adult life has been involved in leftist and anarchist protests in and around the cities of Wiesbaden, Mainz, Darmstadt and Frankfurt. In the mid-1980's, he helped organize a boycott of the national census, a "die-in" at an American military base and protests against the visit of President Reagan. He is also said to have taken part in several attacks against private and government property.
For most of the time Mr. Steinmetz was engaged in these actions, he was also a police informer, apparently recruited after he was arrested for petty crimes. Detectives monitoring radical groups in the area found his information useful, but it was only last year, after he received an extraordinary offer from the Red Army Faction, that he become one of the most important police informants in modern German history.
Red Army leaders had responded favorably to a January 1992 initiative by Minister of Justice Klaus Kinkel, now Foreign Minister, urging them to call off their campaign of killings in exchange for better treatment and possible early release for their jailed comrades. They issued a statement pledging to stop killing "leading representatives of the economy and the state" while they awaited further Government moves.
As part of their developing new strategy, the Red Army Faction decided to establish ties to militant leftists who lived legally and were not engaged in terrorism. In a series of clandestine meetings, Mr. Steinmetz became the first such contact.
 
First Infiltration
 In February 1992, Mr. Steinmetz traveled to Paris to meet Birgit Hogefeld, a Red Army member whom the police had been seeking for years. Their conversation marked the first time a police agent had been accepted into the Red Army Faction's inner circle.
"The detectives were electrified," Der Spiegel reported after the operation collapsed. "They had tried many times to place a spy in the core of the R.A.F., but had never come close to succeeding. Their man Klaus did it."
Mr. Steinmetz met Miss Hogefeld once more, and also met other Red Army members, reportedly including one who is wanted in connection with the group's last two victims, Alfred Herrhausen, chief executive of Deutsche Bank, and Detlev Karsten Rohwedder, head of the government agency charged with selling off formerly state-owned companies in eastern Germany. It was from those contacts that Mr. Steinmetz learned of plans to blow up the jail near Darmstadt.
On June 27, Mr. Steinmetz traveled to the eastern German town of Bad Kleinen for a third meeting with Miss Hogefeld. Another wanted Red Army member, Wolfgang Grams, was also present. The three met at the local train station, and as they walked through an underground passageway, the police opened their assault. It was later revealed that 54 police agents, most of them GSG-9 commandos, had been posted in and around the station.
Agents quickly wrestled Miss Hogefeld to the ground, but Mr. Grams fled up a flight of stairs. In a wild shootout in which 44 shots were fired, one GSG-9 agent was seriously wounded and another, Michael Newrzella, 25, was killed. Mr. Grams was not hit, and police agents managed to subdue him on one of the train tracks.
 
22 Witnesses Testify
 Twenty-two witnesses have reportedly testified that agents held Mr. Grams immobile for about 20 seconds, and that one of them then shot him through the temple from a distance of about two inches.
Unlike many other Red Army members, Mr. Grams was not wanted on charges of committing terrorist acts, but only of belonging to a terrorist organization.
In days after the assault, the full extent of the fiasco became clear. One GSG-9 agent had been killed, another had apparently killed a defenseless prisoner, and police had lost the best chance they ever had of penetrating the Red Army.
The subsequent finger-pointing not only cost Germany's Interior Minister and chief prosecutor their jobs, but also sparked calls for a thorough reorganization of the country's various police and security agencies.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl issued no statement about the criminal investigation opened today, but a few days after the shootout he visited the headquarters of GSG-9, to show his support for the unit, whose name in German, Grenzschutzgruppe, means border protection group. Later Mr. Kohl complained, "Much more is being said about the murderer of a police officer than about the officer who laid down his life."
 
Open Letter From Informer
 Mr. Steinmetz was "arrested" by police agents in Bad Kleinen who hoped they could conceal the fact that he was working for them, and he has not been seen since. Detectives close to the case have said that although Mr. Steinmetz knew that his meeting would be monitored by the police, he was not told that arrests would be attempted.
Soon after the assault, Mr. Steinmetz sought to defend himself in an open letter. Friends say he may have considered himself not a traitor, but a go-between who hoped he could negotiate a truce between the Government and the Red Army Faction.
For their part, Red Army leaders appear ready to resume the terror campaign to which they called a halt last year.
"If you don't allow us, that is, people who are fighting for a humane society, to live, then you must understand that your elites also cannot live," the group said in a statement after the Bad Kleinen shootout. "Even if it is not in our interest, war can only be answered by war."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A botched ambush in June in which a Red Army Faction terrorist and a commando from Germany's top police force were killed has led to disclosures that have given the public a look at a clandestine war that has been going on for more than 20 years. At the funeral last week of the terrorist, Wolfgang Grams, mourners accompanied the coffin behind the lead of a police officer in Wiesdan. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: RED ARMY FACTION

ORGANIZATION: RED ARMY FACTION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; POLICE TERRORISM (92%); SCANDALS (92%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (91%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); MISDEMEANORS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); BOYCOTTS (61%); MURDER (58%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



340 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 14.26 Points as a Rally Sputters

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
An early rally by stocks aided by favorable data on inflation quickly fizzled yesterday. By the close, the Dow Jones industrial average had shed 14.26 points, to 3,569.09.
A contributing factor to the decline in stocks was the Treasury's auction of 30-year bonds, which did not go well and which pushed interest rates higher as a result. Higher rates do not bode well for an economic recovery. 
 The Labor Department reported yesterday that producer prices fell by two-tenths of a percent in July, and stocks rallied. But the Dow's failure to break through the 3,600 level after the better-than-expected news unleashed a wave of computerized selling programs, which immediately put stock prices under pressure.
The decline came as no surprise to some analysts who noted that the market had to work hard to set new highs recently on the Dow and the Nasdaq. Other indexes had not set similar highs, and traders said that if the market was robust, market barometers should move together.
 
 
A Delayed Reaction?
 Steven Resnick, senior investment strategist at Cowen & Company, saw yesterday's downturn as perhaps a delayed reaction by investors skeptical of the economic program in Washington.
"The recently passed budget was essentially an income-redistribution budget, and it will not be the last step," Mr. Resnick said. "And it's interesting that we didn't see a more immediate negative reaction by the market. This tells us something more important, which is investors, although they feel uncertain about Washington, are feeling positive about earnings reports in an overall weak environment."
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy, with 278.5 million shares traded, up from 268.3 million shares on Wednesday. The number of stocks that declined in price outnumbered stocks that gained, 1,075 to 849.
 
 
Rebound in H.M.O.'s
 Health maintenance stocks, or H.M.O.'s, rebounded slightly from a selloff on Wednesday. One trader said, "What usually happens after a bad breakdown is that the recovery doesn't fully make up for the smashing."
U.S. Healthcare, jumped 4 1/4, to 45 1/2, in heavy trading.
Elsewhere, gold stocks gave in to signs of low inflation in the producer prices report. Newmont Mining fell by 3, to 47 3/8.
The Labor Department's inflation report also showed a modest increase of one-tenth of a percent in food and energy prices. Analysts said this was the third consecutive report that showed inflation pressures under control.
Telefonos de Mexico, the Mexican telephone giant, fell along with other Mexican issues after Canada rejected a compromise on labor and environmental safeguards for the North American Free Trade Agreement. Telefonos' American depository receipts, which substitute for shares for many foreign companies, closed at 50, down 1 3/8.
Conner Peripherals Inc., a maker of computer disk drives, was down 3/8 to 11 1/4. I.B.M. sued Conner yesterday, accusing it of infringing I.B.M. patents for disk-drive technology. Conner denied the allegations. A Salomon Brothers analyst, Margaret Alexandre, raised her recommendation on the Equitable Companies to a "buy" from "hold," after the company reported better-than-expected second-quarter earnings. The analyst believes that the company has turned the corner of profitability. The stock was up 7/8, to 26 1/8.
Lands' End, the mail-order retailer said its second quarter earnings rose to 20 cents a share, compared with 14 cents a year earlier. Analysts had forecast earnings of 17 cents a share. The stock rose 2 3/8, to 32 1/8.
National Golf Properties, a real estate investment trust, made its initial public offering yesterday of 9.7 million shares priced at 20 3/8 through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley & Company.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (68%); NEM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (60%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (51%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) COWEN GROUP INC (68%); CONNER PERIPHERALS INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (51%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



341 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Fell 0.2% in July

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12

 BODY:
The Government released reports today showing a weak economy in which inflation has continued to abate and retail sales have grown sluggishly. That kind of "no news" is good news these days for bond investors and Administration officials counting on low interest rates to keep the recovery going.
Producer prices slipped two-tenths of a percent in July, the Labor Department reported today, after declining three-tenths of a percent in June. The falling prices charged by manufacturers and farmers offered further evidence that the inflationary pressures that were worrying the Federal Reserve this spring are unwinding and signaled that the floods in the Midwest had not unleashed much inflation. 
 At the same time, consumers seemed to turn more cautious. Retail sales edged up just a tenth of a percent last month, the Commerce Department said, largely because consumers were not buying as many cars and trucks and gasoline was less expensive, which reduces total sales revenues. While the report was not as weak as it looked at first glance -- spending on everything other than cars and gasoline rose five-tenths of a percent -- consumers were clearly settling down after a spring splurge.
 
Unemployment Claims Lower
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said that new jobless claims drifted down in the first week in August to 332,000, evidence that the job market is firming, but only slowly. That decline -- slower than the Administration would like -- mostly reflected the reopening of factories by the General Motors Corporation after a two-week shutdown. In fact, the four-week moving average of claims is at its highest level in four months, suggesting that the labor market is not likely to put upward pressure on wages soon.
The reports cheered bond investors, who pushed yields on 30-year government bonds to another low, 6.39 percent, in the morning. Yields rose again later in the day after a poorly received Treasury auction.
"It's a pretty benign atmosphere," said Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "The economy is growing slowly, and it's not generating inflation. But growth also doesn't appear to be dangerously weak either."
Today's bond market reaction was welcome news to the Clinton administration. Although the economic recovery is about half as robust as past ones, big public works projects are out of the question and the Administration is pinning its hopes for a lasting recovery on low long-term interest rates. It hopes these will stimulate private business investment and exports.
 
Long-Term Prospect
 The economic reports suggested that the economy is likely to remain subdued for a while.
As of July, prices at the producer level -- covering about a third of the economy -- were just 1.3 percent higher than a year ago and were heading down despite floods in the Midwest and drought in the South, which are hurting crops and raising corn and soybean prices. For the moment, the prospect of higher feed prices has prompted farmers to slaughter more beef and pork than they had planned and that is leading to lower meat prices.
 "This is a very big economy, and the Midwest is only one part of the index," said Tom Tibbetts, assistant commissioner for industrial prices at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "We could still get some effects, but the effects will be small."
Oil is one force on the side of deflation. Flush inventories and the expectation that OPEC will keep pumping more oil have pushed oil prices down to less than $18 a barrel from $21 a year ago.
 
Consumers Are Wary
 More important, though, are weak sales and heightened cost-consciousness among customers, both of which are making it difficult for businesses to raise prices. Excluding food and energy prices, prices edged up just a tenth of a percent in July, after falling by a like amount in June.
"We're working very hard, but we haven't raised prices yet," said Mary A. Lyons, president of Lyons Tool and Engineering, which has been supplying Ford for decades. "If you want to raise the price you have to show the product can do more."
Meanwhile, consumers, who spent the spring making up for their lack of spending early in the year by driving more than two million cars and trucks off dealers' lots, turned less expansive. Based on the July data, David Kelly, an economist at Economic Advisers Inc. in Boston, expects retail sales in the quarter that began in July to grow at just half the spring's annual rate of 7 percent.
The Commerce Department, which frequently revises its retail car sales figures substantially, reported that dealers' sales revenues, which include service, parts and used cars as well as new cars, dropped seven-tenths of a percent in July.
 
Lower Prices
 But some of the declines in sales dollars -- from grocery stores to drugstores to service stations -- reflect lower prices rather than less buying. Drivers, for example, are using more gasoline than expected this summer.
Consumers did spend somewhat more freely at department stores, clothing stores, furniture stores and building supply outlets last month.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Producer Prices" shows index of finished goods prices from 2/92 to 7/93 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); "Retail Sales" shows total retail sales from 2/92 to 7/93 (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US) ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES; CREDIT; WEATHER; FLOODS; LABOR ; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



342 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Demand for 30-Year Bond Turns Weak

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
It could not have been a better warmup for a Treasury auction. The Producer Price Index for Finished Goods fell two-tenths of 1 percent in July, providing a little better inflation news than expected, and retail sales came in just up a barely noticeable one-tenth of 1 percent.
This left the Treasury selling 30-year bonds at a time when new data reassured traders, investors and speculators that inflation was in check, and that economic growth would not pick up enough to awake worrisome inflationary fears any time soon. 
 Add the fact that the Treasury is cutting its annual sales of 30-year bonds by 40 percent and it seemed that yesterday's auction of the 30-year bonds should have gone well.
But it did not. On the third day of the Treasury quarterly auction, traders, investors and speculators suffered a little indigestion as they bought the last $11 billion of the week's record $38.5 billion sale of 3-, 10- and 30-year securities. It appeared that dealers wound up with more 30-year bonds at too high of a price than they could stomach, so they started selling.
The sloppy auction put a chill on the long end of the market in the afternoon. The price of the old 7.125 percent 30-year bond due in Feburary 2023 rose more than half a point after the inflation report and the yield on the new bond in pre-auction trading slipped to 6.30 percent.
But by late trading, the yield on the new 6.25 percent 30-year bond due in August 2023 was up to 6.36 percent while that of the old bond was up to 6.44 percent, from the 16-year low of 6.42 percent set on Wednesday. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
Only the shorter end of the market ended with any gains, as the low-inflation and slow-growth themes further reduced fears of a Federal Reserve move to raise short-term interest rates soon. The discount rates on Treasury bills moved lower and the two-year note wound up unchanged at a yield of 4.05 percent.
Some traders suggested that there might be some lingering discomfort, which means traders and investors might sell for a few days as they regain their bearings. But that kind of market correction would be expected anyway, with yields for long-term debt at or near their lowest levels in more than 20 years.
"This does not necessarily end the trend to lower rates but it disrupts it," said John Costas, managing director of government trading at the First Boston Corporation.
Where the market heads after a short-term selloff, if there is one, will depend on whether the 30-year bond, which seems to be trading to a different beat than the rest of the market, continues to rally.
Some analysts are betting that the yield on the 30-year bond will fall enough to wipe out the spread, or differential, between the yield on the 10-year note and the 30-year bond. When comparing the yield on the 10-year note sold Wednesday and the yield on the new 30-year bond,that spread was 60 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
But other analysts wonder if the market has not already factored in all or most of the good news. They are not sure if the inflation numbers will continue to improve. And they are more confident that the economy will begin to pick up pace.
Mr. Costas of First Boston said the reason the 30-year bond auction did not go well "was simply the result of supply and demand not lining up." He said that it appeared that as the 1 P.M. bidding deadline approached, buyers decided that the new issue was just too pricey.
Jay Goldinger, a trader at Capital Insight in Los Angeles, said that given the positive inflation and economic backdrop for the bond and the expected impact of the Government's sharp cut in the total bonds that it would sell, many traders were just scared to go into the auction short -- that is, without holding the new bond. Otherwise, they would lose in a rally. So they bought them in the when-issued or pre-auction market, where issues trade in advance.
But, Mr. Goldinger said, that meant there were not many dealers who needed to cover short positions from having sold the new issue in advance. And that, in turn, reduced demand in the auction because few dealers had to bid aggressively to assure they would get the new bonds.
Because of the technical problem created by the switch from the old bond to new bond as it becomes the current issue after an auction, comparisons of where interest rates have moved can be confusing.
With one comparison, yields on both the old and new 30-year bond rose slightly yesterday, with the price falling from Wednesday's levels. The yield on the old 7.125 percent bond rose to 6.44 percent from 6.42. The yield on the new 6.25 percent 30-year bond ended at 6.36 percent, up from 6.35 percent in when-issued trading the day before.
But when the yield on the old bond, as it finished trading Wednesday, is compared with the yield on the new bond in the when-issued market yesterday, the yield fell, from 6.44 percent Wednesday to 6.36 percent yesterday.
By any measure, the average auction yield of the 30-year bond of 6.33 percent was the lowest since the Treasury began regularly issuing the bonds in May of 1977.
Following are the results of the Treasury's 30-year bond auction yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 98.931
Average Yield . . . 6.33%
Low Price . . . 98.666
High Yield . . . 6.35%
High Price . . . 99.063
Low Yield . . . 6.32%
Accepted at low price . . . 10%
Total applied for . . . $23,464,704
Accepted . . . $11,001,830
N.Y. applied for . . . $22,150,499
N.Y. accepted . . . $10,747,399
Noncompetitive . . . $390,000
Interest set at . . . 6.25%
 
The 30-year bonds mature Aug. 15, 2023.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "30-Year Treasury Bonds" shows their average yields from '89 to '93 (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INTEREST RATES (85%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); RETAIL SALES (72%); DEBT NOTES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



343 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Continues to Retreat; Prices of Soybeans Plunge

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Gold prices dropped sharply again yesterday after the Government reported that its Producer Price Index fell by an unexpected two-tenths of 1 percent in July.
And in another sign of the lack of inflationary pressures, the Commodity Research Bureau index fell to a six-week low, pulled down in part by the selloff in precious metals, as well as a plunge in soybean prices after a surprising Government crop report. 
 On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery fell $7.90 an ounce, to $367.40. December gold, the most actively traded contract, dropped $8 an ounce, to $370.70. Meanwhile, September silver lost 12 cents an ounce, to $4.558.
"People are resuming their belief that we're in a deflationary market," said Jim Ayer, manager of the $160 million Gold and Special Minerals Fund at the Oppenheimer Corporation. "My prediction is that gold holds at $365."
Gold has fallen more than $40 an ounce after peaking around $410 in early August following a four-month buying frenzy fueled by concerns about inflation, increased demand from Chinese investors and turmoil in the European Community's Exchange Rate Mechanism.
"Low inflation and the changes in the E.R.M. spelled death for gold," said Jim Steel, an analyst at Refco Inc. "I don't think the gold market will recover from this. It won't be going back above $400 an ounce anytime soon."
A decline in demand for precious metals from East Asia also weighed on the market, said Bernard Savaiko, senior metals analyst with Paine Webber in New York. "Waning demand from the Far East hurt," Ms. Savaiko said. "And the P.P.I. really hammered home the reality that inflation isn't a problem, leaving people questioning why they're long gold."
Meanwhile, soybean futures plunged to a six-and-a-half-week low after the Agriculture Department's crop report showed less damage to the soybean crop than traders had expected.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, soybeans for November delivery fell 27 1/4 cents, to $6.56 a bushel. Other grain futures also declined. December corn lost 3 cents, to $2.44 1/4 a bushel. And December wheat lost 9 1/2 cents, to $3.11 1/2 a bushel, a one-month low.
The department projected the 1993-94 soybean crop at 1.902 billion bushels. Although lower than last month's estimate of 1.975 billion bushels, it was higher than traders had expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (67%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); REFCO INC (67%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; SOYBEANS; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); INFLATION (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); FUTURES (91%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SILVER MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



344 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Owners Take Steps To Prevent A Strike

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KOHLER, Wis., Aug. 12

 BODY:
After a second day of marathon meetings, major league club owners tonight failed to reach agreement on the thorny issue of revenue sharing, but they took steps to remove the players' primary reasons for following through on their threat to strike next month.
After 28 hours of plotting, calculating and negotiating, two groups of owners adjourned without resolving their differences over how to get the richer clubs to help their poorer brethren. 
 While declaring his disappointment to forge an agreement but also his confidence to do so in the future, Richard Ravitch, the owners' chief labor executive, tried to defuse the issue of a possible strike.
He pledged that the owners would not lock the players out of training camps next spring, and he said they would not declare an impasse in negotiations during the winter, meaning they would not try to change the work rules, such as for salary arbitration.
"The fans and the public are preoccupied with the pennant races, which they should be," Ravitch told a news conference. "It would be irresponsible to set an artifical deadline whatsoever in terms of achieving our understanding with the union. I want to make it clear right now whether this happens in September or shortly thereafter that in no way will the opening of the season be jeopardized by any actions of the owners."
 
Rich Teams' Veto
 While Ravitch's remarks were a bold statement of the owners' intentions, they seemed designed also to dilute the negative outcome of the two days of meetings here at the American Club resort.
"Though I'm obviously disappointed that we didn't achieve closure on a plan today," Ravitch said, "I believe an enormous amount of progress has been made."
The effort to reach an agreement on an increase in the amount of local revenue the clubs share was scuttled by a 10-team group of richer teams: the Yankees, the Mets, Los Angeles, Toronto, Boston, Baltimore, Colorado, Florida, Texas and St. Louis. The California Angels had been part of that group during most of a four-hour session Wednesday night, but Jackie Autry did not return to it today.
 
Shuttle Diplomacy
 Although proposals, counterproposals and variations on both went back and forth between the two groups of teams and progress appeared to have been made during the second half of the 15 hours of meetings today, the two sides in the end could not conclude the business Ravitch had brought them here for.
In effect, he said he will continue the shuttle diplomacy he used during these meetings, moving back and forth between the groups trying to secure their agreement.
"That is a process I will continue," he said. "I'll set up a mechanism to do that. I hope to tell you in the very near future there is total agreement among the clubs on how to redistribute revenue among themselves so we can meet our obligations to the players under the new economic system we will be proposing to them."
The owners' inability to adopt a new revenue-sharing plan will further delay the start of negotiations with the players. The owners voted last Dec. 7 to reopen the collective bargaining agreement that expires Dec. 31.
If the owners can adopt a new plan, they will ask the players to accept a salary cap, something the players always have opposed. Any new revenue-sharing plan would be contingent on the players' acceptance of a cap.
 
Depart in Darkness
 The owners, after meeting jointly and in two separate groups for 15 hours, departed under cover of dark, at 11 P.M., Central time, in six vans.
Emerging from their meeting at the American Club resort in groups of two and three, the owners left grim-faced and unsuccessful.
"Any agreement is a success," Ravitch had said earlier in the evening. He did not say what no success was.
The owners tried to put the best face on their failed efforts.
"It was a good meeting," Bill Giles of the Philadelphia Phillies said. "We're close."
Andy MacPhail, general manager of the Minnesota Twins, said a lot of progress was made, adding: "This isn't the end of the thing. The mood was upbeat."
George Steinbrenner of the Yankees had no comment on the failed talks. "What was the final score?" he asked, referring to his team's game in Boston.
In a late-afternoon development, the group of richer clubs sent a proposal to the others, triggering an exchange of proposals that resulted in what some owners viewed as significant movement.
"We're making progress," John Harrington of the Red Sox said before heading for a telephone to find out the outcome of the same game.
Harrington declined to disclose details of his group's proposals, but another member of that contingent said they centered on percentages of local revenue that would differ according to the markets, with the larger-market clubs paying a greater percentage of the total figure needed for the player payroll pool.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); TEXAS, USA (73%); COLORADO, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (68%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); TEXAS, USA (73%); COLORADO, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (68%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; FINANCES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS REVENUES (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); RESORTS (66%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



345 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 26; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: $25 and Under

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
On sunny days, Johnny's Reef Restaurant dances to the nostalgic beat of summers gone by. For 41 years, families, friends and lovers have come to this seaside restaurant at the southern tip of City Island, an incongruously small-town part of the Bronx in Long Island Sound, tenuously connected to Pelham Bay Park by a narrow bridge.
Getting to City Island is part of the fun. For first-timers, there is a shock on exiting the urban asphalt of the Bronx for the pastoral green of the park, and then a secondary shock on crossing over to City Island and entering what seems to be a small fishing village, with its boats and cottages. Of course the restaurants that line City Island Avenue, the island's main drag, make clear that the island's economy is largely dependent on hungry visitors. 
 Johnny's is at the end of the line, a rambling structure built on a slab of concrete jutting into the Sound. Inside, an assembly line of seafood "by the ton," as a sign says, is dished up cafeteria style, with the accent on things fried. Huge portions are handed out on paper plates, with plastic utensils, and carried on cardboard trays to either plastic tables inside or blue metal picnic tables outside, where dining is accompanied by serenading gulls and power boats.
But the restaurant is only partly about food. The good-time family atmosphere is the attraction, in maybe one of the few places where New York's polyglot ethnicities gather together in multi-generational groups. You may watch teen-agers still sandy from nearby Orchard Beach, or overhear a father seizing on the opportunity to be authoritative to his inquisitive youngster:
"Daddy, what are those buildings across the water?"
"That's Connecticut." (Actually, it's Kings Point, L.I.)
"Daddy, what are those wires above us?"
"Uh, those are for putting a tent up in bad weather." (Actually, they are fishing lines, strung above the picnic area to discourage diving gulls.)
Fortunately, Johnny's is a place where children can run off and toss french fries to the gulls, leaving exhausted parents a small window of tranquillity. Use that time to sample Johnny's best wares, mounds of greaseless fried shrimp on beds of fresh fried potatoes ($10), or fine fried oysters ($12). Fried whiting fillets ($6) were also good, though you must watch out for little bones, and a pile of steamed shrimp ($10), in a bright yellow butter sauce, tastes of the sea, in this case a garlic sea.
Corn on the cob ($1.75), served criminally flaccid, should be avoided.
All this is best washed down with big cups of beer or iced tea, though Johnny's has a full bar should the need strike.
The best time may be after the meal, for people-watching or just gazing out to sea at passing boats and birds. Or for walking up City Island Avenue for ice cream. At dusk, teen-agers cruise the avenue in cars as they do in any small town. For the truly nostalgic, there is a miniature golf course nearby, perhaps the perfect dessert.
Johnny's Reef Restaurant
2 City Island Avenue, City Island, the Bronx, (718) 885-2086. (Reachable by car or by taking the No. 6 train to Pelham Bay Park, then the Bx 29 bus.)
Best dishes: Fried shrimp, fried oysters, fried whiting, steamed shrimp.
Price range: $6 to $18.
Credit cards: Cash only.
Hours: Sunday through Thursday, 11 A.M. to midnight; Friday and Saturday, to 1:30 A.M.
Wheelchair access: Everything is on one level.
 
Ratings:
 
Poor
Satisfactory
Good
Very Good
Excellent
Extraordinary
 Ratings are based on the reviewer's reaction to food and price in relation to comparable establishments.
 The Times Restaurant Line offers capsule reviews by cuisine, price and location (in New York City and suburbs), published in the last 18 months. Touch-line telephones only: 1-900-988-0101 (75 cents a minute).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOHNNY'S REEF RESTAURANT (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNNY'S REEF RESTAURANT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CITY ISLAND (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WEATHER (78%); FISHES (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (74%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



346 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater;
Basketball as a Metaphor for the Game of Life

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Theater for the New City has been touring the boroughs with its summer street program since the late 1960's, and it still exudes a strong whiff, as identifiable as sandalwood incense, of the decade that spawned it. Founded by George Bartenieff and Crystal Field, longtime fixtures of the Greenwich Village arts scene, the company mixes blatantly homemade sets, costumes that might have come from the bargain bins at Canal Jeans, quasi-Brechtian didacticism and a do-your-own-thing style of performance. These elements are shaped into a noisy theater of protest that blends right into the curmudgeonly hubbub of the New York streetscape in its dog days. The results are crude, chaotic and preachy, but everyone involved seems to be having a lively time. 
 The troupe's current offering is "Don't Worry: We're All Gonna Be Rich," which made its debut in the East Village and will be performed throughout the five boroughs over the next six weeks. Its 50-member cast comprises both amateurs and professionals of widely varying ages and ethnic backgrounds.
Written and directed by Ms. Field, with music by Chris Cherney, the show is built around what is less a plot than a central metaphor, in which basketball becomes a symbol for the importance of playing as a politically right-thinking team in a corrupt world. A group of city boys, united by their love for the sport, passes from adolescence into adulthood as it grapples with the demons of contemporary life: drugs, AIDS, unemployment and a host of sinister predators -- variously dressed in desert camouflage fatigues, a suit made of moneybags, and a jacket tricked up with elaborate circuits of wires -- who represent the military-industrial complex.
Ms. Field doesn't sustain her basic conceit with much logic or even clarity. In essence, the show is an occasion for a series of energetic, improvisatory sketches, which range from the death of a drug pusher to a birth in a department store. There are some athletic dances, a few rap numbers and a mournful ballad (adapted from Tchaikovsky and Goethe), which Ms. Field, playing a mother whose son has died of AIDS, delivers in a touchingly off-key warble. The ensemble was coached by the former Harlem Globetrotter Roman Turman, but it is difficult to play basketball convincingly on a 20-foot stage, and the ball tends to slip onto the street.
Toward the end of the performance, the cast members hold up a numbing array of cardboard signs with slogans like "Stop U.S. Terrorism" and "No More Nuclear Testing," and one of them tosses a large pink ball into the audience, admonishing, "We've all got a big game comin' up." By that time, "Don't Worry: We're All Gonna Be Rich" has come to seem less like a play than a Washington Square rally.
 
Don't Worry
We're All Gonna Be Rich
Written and directed by Crystal Field; lyrics by Ms. Field; music by Chris Cherney; production and stage design by Anthony Angel; props by Orlando Caquias, Jason Schuler and April Asher; costumes by Ilona Somogyi and Jonathan Cross; sound by Paul Garrity and Nancy Mannon. Presented by Theater for the New City, Bartenieff-Field. Performed outdoors. Call (212) 254-1109 for locations.
 
WITH: Joe Davies, Michael David Gordon, Jerry Jaffe, Terry King, Mark Marcante and Craig Meade.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from Theater for the New City's musical production "Don't Worry: We're All Gonna Be Rich," on tour in the five boroughs. (Jonathan Slaff)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DON'T WORRY: WE'RE ALL GONNA BE RICH (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY

ORGANIZATION: THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); THEATER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); AMATEUR SPORTS (72%); AIDS & HIV (71%); TERRORISM (60%); 

PERSON: BRANTLEY, BEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



347 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: A Dream of Riches Seduces the Middle Class

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The headline on "The Would-Be Rich vs. the Truly Rich" (Op-Ed, Aug. 6) by James Grant, publisher of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, inadvertently highlights the endemic upward mobility that has deposited him and many other upper-income -- but not rich -- Americans on the wrong side of the debate about the Clinton economic package. 
 In "The Culture of Contentment," John Kenneth Galbraith suggests the existence in this country of a "contented" class, defined broadly as those who believe their interests are served by the political process and consequently participate in it. The contented protest vehemently when their economic self-interest is threatened (for example, by higher taxes). Also, fearing some kind of economic domino effect, they rally to protect those richer than themselves from higher taxes.
Someone at the middle of the wealth heap would rather think of himself or herself as part of the upper two-thirds than as part of the lower two-thirds. Advertisers take advantage of this tendency, the vanity inherent in the American dream, with product positioning that they call "aspirational."
"How higher marginal income tax rates will help the rest of us educate our children, start a business or buy a ranch is beyond me," Mr. Grant writes. It is appalling that he dares to group himself with the middle class and to wonder how he'll get his kids a private education in the same breath.
It's time for the would-be rich to stop running interference for the rich and then crying "foul" when they're asked to put their money where their mouth is.
 
EVAN BAILY
New York, Aug. 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); TRENDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (65%); INCOME TAX (51%); 

PERSON: GRANT, JAMES (AUTHOR); BAILEY, EVAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



348 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: A Dream of Riches Seduces the Middle Class;
Trickle-Down Cruelty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Budget That Will Backfire" (Op-Ed, Aug. 6) by John H. Makin of the American Enterprise Institute is shocking and incorrect. Shocking in his unfailing belief in the feeble school of thought known as "trickle-down economics," and incorrect for the view that trickle-down economics could cure our economic woes. 
 Perhaps Mr. Makin was absent from the planet Earth during the last 12 years of Republican rule; otherwise he would undoubtedly be aware that when America gave trickle-down economics a chance, the budget deficit rose astronomically and that, frankly, the rich got richer and the poor got poorer.
Trickle-down economics works with the same ruthless efficiency as the biological model of the food pyramid, that is, at each progressive level, only one-tenth of the energy consumed is passed on. This means that nine-tenths of the energy consumed stays with the consumers.
To put that in trickle-down terms, John makes $1 million, of which he uses $100,000 to pay his five employees, who pass $2,000 each (for a total of $10,000) on to 1,000 needy people. Of John's $1 million, the needy see $10 each or 1/100,000 -- hardly a fair distribution of wealth.
More important, however, trickle-down economics resembles the model of the food pyramid because it is based on survival of the fittest, kill or be killed and competition over cooperation. In trickle-down land, the tired and the poor are discarded by the privileged and the wealthy or, if they are lucky, are made ditchdiggers and caddies. Trickle-down economics is a system laden with injustice and devoid of compassion.
Since "The Origin of Species" was published and natural selection became a household phrase, humankind has forgotten the other great lesson of biology: that, while competition helps life evolve, it is cooperation that brings life about in the first place. President Clinton's budget package puts higher taxes on the rich not to punish the rich, but to end competition and also to inspire cooperation. And it will work.
 
RICHARD C. CASE
Springfield, N.J., Aug. 6, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: EARTH (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); EARTH (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); NUTRITION (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); BIOLOGY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); EVOLUTION THEORY (69%); 

PERSON: CASE, RICHARD C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MAKIN, JOHN H BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



349 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Steel Decision Will Cost American Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "A Wise Decision on Steel" (editorial, July 29), you maintain that it is good for the economy and Americans that the domestic steel industry lost its trade cases against subsidized and dumped foreign steel products. Lower costs, you state, will help makers of "everything from baseball cleats to automobile parts." 
 Such logic is shortsighted and self-destructive. When we find dumped and subsidized auto parts in our market, many consumers will be working in shopping centers or fast food outlets, and there will be a shortage of buyers able to afford a $15,000 car.
A prosperous economy needs prosperous consumers. Manufacturing jobs generally provide the kind of compensation and benefits a family can build a life around. Much of the newer growth in jobs in health care, hotels, restaurants and shopping centers does not provide the same standard of living. In my working lifetime, I have sadly witnessed steady erosion in the quality of our domestic employment. More than two million manufacturing jobs were lost in the 1980's.
This deterioration in the quality of our jobs is a prime cause of our economic problems. The most significant cause of this deterioration has been lack of an effective trade policy. Our failure to recognize and deal with the realities of global competition has led to our exploitation by our trading partners. The more than $1 trillion in unfavorable trade deficits we have experienced over the last decade should convince us that what we have been doing has not worked well for America or Americans.
A young generation is being told it will not live as well as its parents. We read daily of job eliminations and the difficulties of college graduates finding jobs. Our ineptitude in dealing with trade abuses has done a great disservice to our children and future generations. A truly wise decision by an arm of government would cause more domestic steel manufacturing -- not less.
 
C. A. CORRY
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
USX Corporation
Pittsburgh, Aug. 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (64%); X (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (64%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US) MARATHON OIL CORP (64%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); EDITORIALS IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETAILERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); FAST FOOD (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); LAYOFFS (57%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: CORRY, CHARLES A

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



350 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Romania Offers Dramatic Data on Abortion

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In the debate on abortion, advocates of choice have often urged that the consequence of making abortion illegal, or legal but inaccessible, will be much higher mortality among pregnant women who feel compelled to seek back-alley abortions. There are statistics available on this subject from Romania, which made abortion illegal in 1966, but then reversed itself under a new regime in 1990. 
 During the quarter-century in which abortion was illegal in Romania, abortion-related maternal deaths per 100,000 live births rose dramatically, from fewer than 20 in 1965 to between 120 and 150 in 1982-89 -- an increase of more than 500 percent.
Even more striking, abortion-related deaths, as a percentage of maternal deaths from all causes, rose from about 20 percent to nearly 90 percent. In 1966 Romania's maternal mortality rate resembled that of most other Eastern European countries; by 1989 it was at least 10 times higher than in any other European country.
Since the Romanians relegalized abortion, maternal mortality has dropped precipitously, despite adverse economic conditions.
The Romanian statistics are discussed by Patricia Stephenson and others in the American Journal of Public Health, No. 82 (1992), pages 1328-31, and are summarized in the World Bank's World Development Report for 1993, page 86.
These statistics deserve to be much better known, since they indicate some of the possible costs of a repressive public policy on abortion, particularly in a country where access to abortion has hitherto been relatively free. However, the Romanian statistics concern only maternal deaths and not other health complications that may be caused by illegal abortions.
 
BRUCE W. FRIER
Professor of Law, U. of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Mich., Aug. 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROMANIA ROMANIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); MICHIGAN, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION ABORTION (96%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: FRIER, BRUCE W (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



351 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Civic Disorder and Liberal Guilt

BYLINE: By Richard Brookhiser; Richard Brookhiser, senior editor of National Review, lives on 16th Street.

 BODY:
Of all the neighborhoods of the gorgeous mosaic, Greenwich Village must be one of the gaudiest. Yet even there a group finds itself under political and cultural siege. Its members feel that their way of life is scorned and that their protests are mocked and ignored. Some wonder how long they will be able to hang on. This group is not the homeless or squatters or some religious sect. It is the liberal bourgeoisie.
For years, Tompkins Square Park in the East Village was a shantytown. If you weren't a bum, a beggar or a kid from the suburbs who called himself an anarchist, you feared to go there. A year ago, after a costly cleanup, the park was reopened. Today, disorder thrives in the central and West Village. 
 The obvious threats to law-abiding liberal Villagers and their way of life are external. Parks are drug emporiums. Boom boxes serenade at all hours. Threads of urine, left by undisciplined passers-by, trickle in the gutters. Peddlers choke the sidewalks with tables full of pilfered books and stinking incense. These are the little lesions that, as the sociologist James Q. Wilson explained, can threaten a neighborhood's health and life in the long run if left unattended. When anything goes, order is the first thing to go, followed by law.
The Village bourgeoisie is also menaced by its political leaders and their failure to take such problems seriously. When New York magazine recently asked City Councilman Tom Duane what ailed the Village, he reportedly blamed Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Mr. Duane knows there was an election last year, but when a politician gets a good line he runs it into the ground. Antonio Pagan, the Councilman from the East Village, took a different attitude, telling the reporter "it's O.K." for his constituents to be "angry" about the low quality of life. "How refreshing," one thinks; and then, "How depressing that this should seem refreshing." Simply by uttering truisms, Mr. Pagan comes across as a bold and original thinker.
But the liberal Villager's most insidious enemy is himself. When East Villagers were interviewed by this paper a year after the reopening of Tompkins Square Park, most said they were happy with the new state of affairs, though some worried that the problem of homelessness had simply been moved elsewhere.
But the whole point of shutting and relandscaping the park was to move the problem elsewhere. It doesn't mean that it stopped being a problem or that we shouldn't seek ways to solve it. It simply means that the homeless and their hangers-on shouldn't live in Tompkins Square. A park should be a park, not a flophouse or a no-income housing development.
Marx taught us to think of bourgeois as the name of an economic class. But it originally meant someone who lived in a "burg" -- a town or a city. It implied someone who was capable of leading a civil existence ("civil" and "city" spring from the same root).
New York keeps teaching liberals the lesson that civility matters. On the Upper West Side, the most recent learning experience was provided by Larry Hogue, the violent crack addict who terrorized Broadway. But the lesson never sticks.
New York liberals -- decent and agreeable people -- do not seem to believe that their way of life merits deference or support. Their lack of self-assertion is encouraged by activists and politicians who offer long lists of other causes claiming priority. But New York liberals let themselves be distracted because they don't realize that defending civility is an urgent task. They're wrong and they're paying the price.
Fixing the problems in the Village doesn't have much to do with who lives in Gracie Mansion for the next four years. New York needs a new frame of mind. Liberal New Yorkers, good bourgeois types all, have to stop thinking of themselves as bit players in the pageant of city life. It's time to clean the streets and not feel guilty about it. They can save the world tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; GREENWICH VILLAGE (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); SUBURBS (73%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: BROOKHISER, RICHARD RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



352 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Civic Disorder and Liberal Guilt

BYLINE: By Richard Brookhiser; Richard Brookhiser, senior editor of National Review, lives on 16th Street.

 BODY:
Of all the neighborhoods of the gorgeous mosaic, Greenwich Village must be one of the gaudiest. Yet even there a group finds itself under political and cultural siege. Its members feel that their way of life is scorned and that their protests are mocked and ignored. Some wonder how long they will be able to hang on. This group is not the homeless or squatters or some religious sect. It is the liberal bourgeoisie.
For years, Tompkins Square Park in the East Village was a shantytown. If you weren't a bum, a beggar or a kid from the suburbs who called himself an anarchist, you feared to go there. A year ago, after a costly cleanup, the park was reopened. Today, disorder thrives in the central and West Village. 
 The obvious threats to law-abiding liberal Villagers and their way of life are external. Parks are drug emporiums. Boom boxes serenade at all hours. Threads of urine, left by undisciplined passers-by, trickle in the gutters. Peddlers choke the sidewalks with tables full of pilfered books and stinking incense. These are the little lesions that, as the sociologist James Q. Wilson explained, can threaten a neighborhood's health and life in the long run if left unattended. When anything goes, order is the first thing to go, followed by law.
The Village bourgeoisie is also menaced by its political leaders and their failure to take such problems seriously. When New York magazine recently asked City Councilman Tom Duane what ailed the Village, he reportedly blamed Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Mr. Duane knows there was an election last year, but when a politician gets a good line he runs it into the ground. Antonio Pagan, the Councilman from the East Village, took a different attitude, telling the reporter "it's O.K." for his constituents to be "angry" about the low quality of life. "How refreshing," one thinks; and then, "How depressing that this should seem refreshing." Simply by uttering truisms, Mr. Pagan comes across as a bold and original thinker.
But the liberal Villager's most insidious enemy is himself. When East Villagers were interviewed by this paper a year after the reopening of Tompkins Square Park, most said they were happy with the new state of affairs, though some worried that the problem of homelessness had simply been moved elsewhere.
But the whole point of shutting and relandscaping the park was to move the problem elsewhere. It doesn't mean that it stopped being a problem or that we shouldn't seek ways to solve it. It simply means that the homeless and their hangers-on shouldn't live in Tompkins Square. A park should be a park, not a flophouse or a no-income housing development.
Marx taught us to think of bourgeois as the name of an economic class. But it originally meant someone who lived in a "burg" -- a town or a city. It implied someone who was capable of leading a civil existence ("civil" and "city" spring from the same root).
New York keeps teaching liberals the lesson that civility matters. On the Upper West Side, the most recent learning experience was provided by Larry Hogue, the violent crack addict who terrorized Broadway. But the lesson never sticks.
New York liberals -- decent and agreeable people -- do not seem to believe that their way of life merits deference or support. Their lack of self-assertion is encouraged by activists and politicians who offer long lists of other causes claiming priority. But New York liberals let themselves be distracted because they don't realize that defending civility is an urgent task. They're wrong and they're paying the price.
Fixing the problems in the Village doesn't have much to do with who lives in Gracie Mansion for the next four years. New York needs a new frame of mind. Liberal New Yorkers, good bourgeois types all, have to stop thinking of themselves as bit players in the pageant of city life. It's time to clean the streets and not feel guilty about it. They can save the world tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; GREENWICH VILLAGE (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); SUBURBS (73%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: BROOKHISER, RICHARD RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1993



353 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Rally as Inflation Fears Ease

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER, By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Treasury prices rallied yesterday, pushing the yield on the 30-year bond to another record low as more investors pushed aside their fears of inflation.
The yield on the new 30-year bond slipped to 6.35 percent, from 6.36 percent Thursday in when-issued trading after the Government's auction. The price of the long bond was up 6/32 of a point. Prices and yields move in opposite directions. 
 "By and large, it was a good week for the Treasuries," Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis, said.
He noted a number of factors that created the downward drive in yields, including a quarterly Treasury refunding that "went reasonably well" and featured the last offering of 30-year bonds until February, when the Government begins selling them just twice a year.
There also were indications that European capital was flowing into bonds because of continued uncertainty over Europe's currency problems, Mr. Sohn said. Brazil and Argentina are attracted to Treasury securities for their debt restructuring and have invested here, too, he said.
The bond market was also helped by Government reports late this week that showed inflation was not an immediate threat. Inflation erodes the value of fixed-income securities.
Yesterday, the Labor Department said the Consumer Price Index rose just one-tenth of 1 percent in July, less than the two-tenths of a percent to three-tenths of a percent that the market had anticipated. The slight increase came after no change in prices in June and an increase of one-tenth of a percent in May.
On Thursday, the department's Producer Price Index showed the first back-to-back monthly decreases in two years.
"I'm having trouble seeing inflation with a pair of binoculars," Mr. Sohn said.
Douglas Schindewolf, an economist at Smith Barney Shearson, said the bond market also drew strength from a view that the Clinton Administration's tax bill, signed into law Tuesday, would impede economic growth.
Short-term Treasury issues rose 4/32 of a point to 7/32 of a point, while intermediate-term issues rose 9/32 of a point to 13/32 of a point.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, reflecting price movements on bonds with maturities of a year or longer, was up 2.36, to 1,314.38.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills was unchanged at 3 percent. The discount rate on six-month bills fell 3 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 3.10 percent. And the discount rate on one-year bills fell 4 basis points, to 3.25 percent.
The Federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was quoted at 3 percent late yesterday, up from 2.97 percent on Thursday.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 10314/32 , up 2/32 from Thursday. The average yield to maturity was 5.64 percent, unchanged from Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (71%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); TAX LAW (61%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



354 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
More and More Clients, More and More Lawyers

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus

 BODY:
A RECENT survey by The National Law Journal confirmed that public esteem for the legal profession has declined sharply since the publication's previous poll in 1986. But hand-wringing lawyers might take heart from a finding nearly overlooked: Americans are apparently becoming more dependent on them.
Seventy percent of the respondents said they had "professional contact" with a lawyer in the last five years. In 1986, the figure was 52 percent. 
 "That was striking; it's a big change," said Marc Galanter, a professor at the University of Wisconsin Law School who was a consultant on the survey. The findings, from a July phone survey of 815 adults nationwide by Penn & Schoen Associates, appeared in The Law Journal's Aug. 9 issue.
Forty-six percent of those polled said they had dealt with a lawyer on personal matters, up from 36 percent in 1986. Those reporting contact with a lawyer in a business setting rose to 15 percent from 10 percent.
Beyond those categories, Professor Galanter said, "we don't have a clue" about what brings people to lawyers. Nor does the American Bar Association, which has conducted a survey on the demand for personal legal services but has no data yet.
The Law Journal poll does show, at least in personal matters, a sharp increase in dealings with lawyers among lower- and middle-income people; 54 percent of those earning $20,000 to $39,000 a year said they had dealt with lawyers. And in a reversal of the 1986 findings, those in the lowest bracket -- people with incomes below $20,000 -- were more likely than those in the highest bracket -- more than $75,000 -- to report some contact with lawyers for personal purposes. Lawyers are frequently consulted for such personal matters as taxes, wills, real estate purchases, divorce and bankruptcy.
"The hiring of lawyers is working its way down the economic scale," said Nicholas Carroll, author of "Dancing With Lawyers," a guide to finding and supervising a counselor.
One possible reason, Mr. Carroll suggested, is advertising. The Supreme Court ruled that lawyers could advertise in 1977, and such ads have increased significantly since the mid-1980's. "Advertising does something that lawyers didn't do 20 years ago," he said. "It tells what's for sale. People at the lower end of the economic scale had no idea 20 years ago what lawyers did. Now they do."
Court filings have increased in the last decade, though they account for only a small portion of what lawyers do. According to the National Center for State Courts, total civil suits filed in state courts rose 33 percent from 1984 to 1991. (Filings declined slightly in that period in Federal courts, but those courts handle only 1 to 2 percent of civil suits.) The number of lawyers has grown, too, at a pace faster than the nation's population has grown.
"It could be that they're making a market for themselves for smaller cases" with increased advertising and price competition, Professor Galanter said.
Lawyers say life's transactions have become more complicated.
Gary Burke of Burke & Burke in Melville, L.I., has drawn that conclusion from his own specialty, real estate law. "The best example," he said, "runs along these lines: When my parents bought their house in 1969, they went down to the corner to the neighborhood bank, shook the banker's hand, signed a note and a mortgage, and that was it." When they refinanced a few years ago, he continued, "they were so perplexed and confused that they said they didn't understand how they had bought the first time without a lawyer."

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Legal Matters" compares numbers of Americans who had professional contact with a lawyer within five years, 1986 and 1993. (From telephone surveys sponsored by The National Law Journal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; LAWYERS; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



355 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Preaches Military Conversion to an Area Hit Hard by Cuts

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALAMEDA, Calif., Aug. 13

 BODY:
President Clinton sought to assure residents of this region today that his Administration stood ready to ease their economic burdens as it shuts down five major defense installations in the San Francisco Bay Area over the next four years.
The Bay Area will be the region hit the hardest by a broad Administration plan to shut down or scale back scores of military bases across the country. But Mr. Clinton said the effort would create more economic opportunity than is lost "if we do it right." 
 "None of these changes will be easy," he told sailors and civilians at the Alameda Naval Air Station, "but we only have one choice: We can make this work to help people, or we can let the future take its course."
Mr. Clinton won no more than tepid applause from the crowd, which was mostly made up of people who expect job transfers or layoffs as the military use of the station is phased out. That will begin later this year.
At least 33,000 military and civilian jobs are expected to be lost in the San Francisco Bay Area. The Pentagon has predicted that job losses on the eastern shore of the bay, in the Alameda and Oakland areas, could amount to 1 in 20.
California's economy is already troubled. Its unemployment rate climbed to 9.8 percent in July, three percentage points above the national rate. Mr. Clinton has repeatedly expressed concern about California's plight, but a local newspaper editorial complained this morning that he had yet to specify economic remedies.
 
Request for Specifics
 "We'd like to see the plan," said the editorial, in The Oakland Tribune. The newspaper said it backed Mr. Clinton's call for shifting from a defense-reliant economy but had yet to be told how workers would be trained and bases made available for civilian use.
The Administration plans to provide $19.5 billion over the next five years to retrain workers and convert bases; the communities affected by the policy will detail how they will use the money.
Today, the President spoke about the plan only in general terms. He promised to send Government teams to help "in everything from job training to resume writing."
As a first step for the Bay Area, Mr. Clinton announced a plan to allow the Port of Oakland to expand by leasing 200 acres of Navy property, much of it for $1 a year. He said he had also directed the Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency to resolve a dispute so shipping channels can be deepened for modern container ships.
Mr. Clinton's visit was his fourth to California since he took office, a sign of concern about the economy here and how it could affect his political future.
Mr. Clinton delivered his remarks in the shadow of the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson, which he later visited. He stood in front of the guided-missile cruiser Arkansas, where the crew had hung a welcoming sign. Although no hostility was shown, as in some of Mr. Clinton's other military visits, many in the crowd seemed sullen about the burdens they will bear.
Diane Lester, a 32-year-old single mother of two children, said she expected to lose her job as a bookkeeper in a Navy warehouse.
"I've already had to talk to my parents about taking in my kids, because I don't know what I'm going to do for income," Ms. Lester said.
Before Mr. Clinton spoke, Larry Wagner, a 40-year-old mechanic who repairs military jet engines, expressed skepticism about Federal help. "All we're going to hear is appeasement -- promises that aren't going to be fulfilled," he said.
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, joined Mr. Clinton for the day, but she also told reporters that she had "real problems" with the costs that the Bay Area would bear.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton speaking yesterday at the Alameda Naval Air Station near San Francisco. At left was Senator Dianne Feinstein of California. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OAKLAND TRIBUNE PORT OF OAKLAND (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND TRIBUNE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); ALAMEDA (CALIF); CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); ENGINEERING (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (93%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



356 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: The Free-Trade Accord;
3 NATIONS RESOLVE ISSUES HOLDING UP TRADE PACT VOTE

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13

 BODY:
Clearing the way for a big legislative battle, the United States struck deals with Canada and Mexico today resolving issues that have stalled approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement. But the deals did not mollify Congressional critics of the pact and left its political future in doubt.
The three countries agreed to set up two North American commissions that would try to insure the enforcement of labor and environmental laws from the Yukon to the Yucatan as the free-trade pact eliminates tariffs and other trade barriers across the continent. 
 "Nafta will create thousands of high-paying American jobs by unlocking access to Mexico -- a growing market of 90 million people that thirst for American products and services," President Clinton said in a statement.
 
Gephardt Remains Hostile
 But today's deal, the culmination of a yearlong gamble by Mr. Clinton, appeared to have failed to heal the Democratic Party's deep divisions on trade policy and win over powerful figures in Congress. Reactions were guarded, even hostile, from influential legislators like Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the majority leader.
"The announced side agreements fall short in important respects, and I am not optimistic that these defects can be successfully resolved," Mr. Gephardt said. "I cannot support the agreement as it stands."
Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which will consider the accord, studiously avoided any appraisal. In a terse statement, he said only that his committee would hold hearings after Labor Day.
The continued opposition leaves the President in the awkward position of relying on Republican support for what promises to be Congress's most bitter fight this autumn. Ross Perot, the Texas businessman who inveighed against the pact in his Presidential campaign last year, condemned the side agreements this evening and urged Congress and voters to oppose the pact.
 
New Laws Aren't Needed
 Today's agreements on side issues to the trade agreement do not require the countries to enact new laws, only to enforce those already on the books. The new labor and environmental agreements call for fines of up to $20 million on national governments and limited trade sanctions on countries that allow their companies to gain a competitive advantage by breaking domestic labor and environmental laws.
A third pact calls for annual consultations on any import increases that appear to be devastating an industry.
President Clinton spoke today to Prime Minister Kim Campbell of Canada, whose Government dropped its objections to the side deals late Thursday after the Administration agreed not to impose trade sanctions on Canada if it violated the deals.
Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Clinton and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico clinched the deal with a 10- or 15-minute telephone conversation Thursday night, when Mr. Salinas offered to take steps to raise minimum wages in Mexico, an issue not directly addressed in the side agreements. Trade officials worked into the morning hours today to complete the deals.
Mr. Salinas told Mr. Clinton, and repeated in a nationally televised address in Mexico today, that his Government might allow Mexico's minimum industrial wage of $4.20 a day to rise with the increasing productivity of workers there.
But the minimum wage covers only about a sixth of the Mexican work force. Mr. Gephardt and other critics want broader action on wages, contending that Mexican companies have an unfair competitive advantage because of the Government's extensive wage controls. These controls cover much of the economy, not just minimum-wage workers, and have steadily driven down real wages in Mexico in the last dozen years.
The Administration had consulted with Mr. Gephardt on the wage issue and decided to proceed without his support after obtaining what American officials decided was the best deal they could get from Mexico.
 
Between 2 Falls Between Positions
 The agreements announced today appeared to fall between the positions of many Republicans and business groups -- who feared that strict additional requirements would burden the nations with unnecessary regulations -- and those of many of the opponents. The opponents have argued for broad side agreements to protect workers and the environment.
Republicans and business groups praised today's deals as another step toward Congressional approval of the overall pact, which would stimulate American exports by eliminating Mexico's large tariffs and other trade barriers. But some of the Democratic Party's most loyal constituencies, including labor unions and some environmental and consumer groups, said the deals failed to address their concerns that free trade could result in the loss of hundreds of thousands of American jobs to low-wage, heavily polluting factories in Mexico.
Mr. Clinton, who in his campaign and later said his support for the pact hinged on the side agreements, has refrained from campaigning for it while those agreements were in doubt. His tepid support has dismayed the pact's supporters, and even today the President issued only a written statement praising the deals, and mentioned them briefly in a speech on the conversion of military industries to civilian production.
 Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, announced the deals at a news conference here and then headed for the airport and a two-week vacation in Italy.
In his statement, the President said, "With these agreements on environmental quality and labor standards, the North American Free Trade Agreement has become a fair trade agreement as well."
Mr. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat who is among the most influential members of Congress on trade because he ran for President in 1988 on a platform calling for more confrontational trade policies, condemned the agreements as inadequate. He declared for the first time that he was unable to support the overall pact.
Mr. Gephardt said he had not decided whether he would rally opposition or simply stand aside during the debate this fall. His stance is awkward for the Administration because Representative David E. Bonior, the Michigan Democrat who is majority whip, is also an outspoken opponent of the trade agreement.
Their defections leave Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, and Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the committee's chairman, to lead the charge. But Mr. Rostenkowski's leadership is threatened by his legal troubles in the House Post Office scandal.
The Administration also plans to pursue health care changes and a crime bill in Congress this autumn. Mr. Kantor said today that health care would be a higher priority.
A bloc of about 70 House Democrats tends to follow Mr. Gephardt's lead on trade issues, but only a dozen or fewer of them are still wavering on the pact, while the rest are opposed, according to vote counts by advocates of the agreement. But several members of Congress have estimated that the vote could come down to a handful of lawmakers in the House.
 Because the North American Free Trade Agreement is not a treaty, it requires approval by a simple majority of both houses of Congress. Treaties require approval by a two-thirds majority of the Senate.
To win in Congress, the Administration must also win its pending appeal of a recent ruling by a Federal District Court judge that an environmental impact statement must be prepared before any vote is taken. If the Administration loses the appeal, preparation of the statement would take many months.
Members of Congress have long predicted that the Administration would face a tougher fight in the House than the Senate, and that view seemed to be borne out today by Senator Max S. Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Environment Committee and has wavered on the pact. In a statement, he said, "If these side agreements live up to their billing, they may be enough to revive the Nafta."
 Two dozen Republican senators warned this summer that they might oppose the President if labor and environmental deals included onerous business regulations. But Senator John C. Danforth, the Missouri Republican who led the group, said today that he was satisfied with the deals and would support the pact.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After deals related to the North American Free Trade Agreement were reached, Mickey Kantor, above, the United States trade representative, spoke about them at a news conference in Washington. Tom Hockin, Trade Minister of Canada, below right, and John Weekes, the chief negotiator, below left, celebrated. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico addressed his country on the issue. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times; Associated Press; Reuters) (pg. 45)
 
Chronolgoy; The Hurdles Ahead
 
AUG. 24: The need for an environmental impact statement on the effect of the trade accord must be resolved. The United States Court of Appeals will hear the Justice Department's appeal of a District Court ruling requiring such a statement.
 
SEPT.-OCT.: The trade accord is expected to pass the Mexican Senate. (Canada's Parliament approved the agreement earlier this year.)
 
OCT.-NOV.: If the Justice Department's appeal is successful, Congress may then vote on the pact. A simple majority of both houses is needed for approval.
 
JAN. 1, 1994: The trade accord is scheduled to take effect. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); 

STATE: YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: FREE LANCE-STAR PUBLISHING CO (90%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; UNITED STATES; MEXICO UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LABOR; ENVIRONMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (97%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US LABOR DAY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (56%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



357 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: A Muslim Region Is Tugging At the Ties That Bind China

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KASHGAR, China

 BODY:
The men of Kashgar carry jeweled daggers, the women sometimes envelop themselves in veils, and donkeys and camels pull wooden carts along the streets. But the most striking sight of all is the Oasis Hotel -- or what is left of it.
On June 17 a bomb ripped apart the front of the hotel, located on a central square of this desert town. Muslim separatists aiming to create their own state are generally believed here to have set the bomb, which killed three people and shattered windows of buildings 100 yards away. 
 The blast is the latest reminder of the underground separatist movement here in the Xinjiang "autonomous region" in the far west of China. Chinese troops suppressed a small armed rebellion three years ago, and the ubiquitous troops and police roadblocks fuel a lingering antagonism that could apparently erupt again at any time.
If the Chinese empire disintegrates after the death of Deng Xiaoping, the frail senior leader who turns 89 this month, Xinjiang may be one of the first territories to spin off into its own orbit.
"We're like Kuwait -- we've been invaded," said a 27-year-old merchant in the bazaar as he relaxed on a wooden bench near the horse market. Ignoring the flow of passers-by, ranging from white-bearded old men to white-bearded billy goats, he pointed to the palm of his left hand. "This is Xinjiang," he said, speaking in Chinese.
Then he pointed to the fingers of the same hand. "These are China," he explained, and he brought them around to make a fist that crushed Xinjiang.
More than four times the size of California, Xinjiang (pronounced sheen-jee-ahng) is made up mostly of mountains and desert, speckled with ancient silk route oases like Kashgar. Most of Xinjiang's 16 million inhabitants are Muslims of Turkic origin, including Uighurs, Kazakhs and Uzbeks. The Uighurs speak their own Turkic language, and many members of other groups speak their own languages as well. Ethnic Chinese, or Han, account for only 38 percent of the people in the region, and they are concentrated in a few cities.
Tibetan separatism has aroused far more attention in the West, partly because of the prestige of the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader. But Xinjiang is in some respects a Muslim equivalent of Tibet, for it too is a border area with long but ambiguous links with China. Like Tibet, it was pretty much left to itself until the Communists came to power in 1949.
As in Tibet, periodic protests have been crushed by the security forces. But Xinjiang lacks a network of exiles abroad. Little is known of the separatists or how they plan to start a "holy war" to establish an independent country called Eastern Turkestan.
The Muslims in Xinjiang are mostly Sunnis, rather than members of the Shiite sect, which is predominant in Iran and is often associated with more militant activities. Yet passions run deep. By some accounts, signs of Islamic interest -- use of veils by women, study of Arabic to read the Koran in the original, attendance at Friday prayers -- are increasing steadily.
The would-be rebels of Xinjiang have been inspired in part by the enormous changes that have reshaped central Asia in the last few years.
In neighboring Afghanistan, Muslim guerrillas evicted the Soviet army, in the process producing a huge surplus of weapons that can easily be smuggled into China. And across the border in the former Soviet Union, Muslims established a string of independent countries, like Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. So now to some people in Xinjiang, the aim of independence no longer seems hopeless.
 
Discontent Echoes, But So Does Fear
 "They have machine guns, and they shoot us, so it isn't easy," said a 44-year-old blacksmith in Kashgar." But we have a way -- Allah! Allah will help us."
Whether strolling the bazaars of Kashgar in the south of Xinjiang or riding horseback with the Kazakhs in the north, a visitor encounters frequent signs of discontent. But it is difficult to gauge whether the ethnic unrest is simply like the racial tensions found all over the world, including in the United States, or whether they are so profound that they threaten Chinese rule in the region.
So little is known about the public mood that it is not even clear that most people favor independence. Few local people speak Chinese or other foreign languages, and even in private many are reluctant to discuss political matters. Only after endless cups of tea, in the privacy of a herdsman's tent or a market stall, do the underlying animosities emerge.
"We don't like the Han Chinese," Khakhar, a 22-year-old Kazakh, said in Chinese as he smoked a home-rolled cigarette in a nomadic herdsman's tent two hours on horseback from the nearest road. "They're different from us. They don't herd. They don't ride horses. They're not Muslims. We just don't like them."
Khakhar, who like many people in Xinjiang uses just one name, expressed pride that Kazakhstan had risen as an independent country from the ashes of the Soviet Union. Could Xinjiang also become an independent country, he was asked.
"Yeah, it could," Khakhar said softly. "That would be a good thing."
Well-connected Chinese in Beijing say that the central Government is concerned that separatists are accumulating machine guns from Afghanistan and Pakistan.
By far the most serious episode was the April 1990 uprising in Baren, a rural township south of Kashgar. A report by Amnesty International says that the rebellion began after the authorities closed one mosque and banned construction of new mosques and Islamic schools.
Local peasants protested, and the Government sent more than 1,000 members of the security forces to quash the demonstrations. The protesters seized guns from the police and declared a "holy war," and by the Government's own count 22 people were killed in the resulting clashes.
The Government also reported that 200 people had been detained, but Amnesty International said that thousands of others may have been detained elsewhere in Xinjiang after the uprising.
One night recently, a mother was riding her bicycle down the street, with her son on a child's seat behind her. A half-dozen police officers were at the street corner, and they spotted a white package that the little boy, about 5 years old, was carrying. They stopped the woman and inspected her son's box.
It was harmless, and the police politely allowed the mother and son to continue. But to the dozen or so people watching the roadblock from the side of the road, the incident appeared redolent of nothing so much as the actions of an occupation army.
"Actually, we're the minority here," said a tall, relaxed Han Chinese merchant in Kashgar, laughing. "But the local people won't hurt us. They're afraid of us."
 
China Yearns For Xinjiang's Oil
 Any revolt in Xinjiang could encourage similar moves in Tibet and in the grassy plains of Inner Mongolia where Mongols live. Almost all Chinese regard these areas as their own, so that it would be politically extremely difficult for any Chinese leader to let them go.
China is particularly likely to want to hold on to Xinjiang for another reason. China's existing oil fields are running low, and within the next year or two China will become a net importer of petroleum. Only one domestic source may be able to meet China's energy needs: the Tarim Basin in Xinjiang.
Though remote and largely unexplored and untapped, the Tarim Basin is regarded as a hugely promising oil field. But the petroleum may complicate the politics of the region.
The Tarim Basin oil can be exploited only with investments of billions of dollars, money that will have to come from Beijing or from foreign investors.
The oil will go primarily to eastern China. That may leave the people of Xinjiang feeling that the Chinese are robbing them.
Moreover, once the investments have been made and the oil is flowing, Xinjiang would not have to pay an economic price for secession.
One factor in China's favor, as it tries to maintain control, is that Xinjiang -- like the rest of the nation -- is doing very well economically. Herdsmen are building up their flocks, and some are buying electric generators so they can watch television in their yurts on the plains.
Economic output in Xinjiang rose 10.2 percent last year, a very impressive performance by international standards. Yet local people notice that growth is still much slower than along China's eastern coast.
"It thunders a lot," a 50-year-old Han Chinese railway worker said of the Government's calls for reform and prosperity. "But it doesn't rain much."
China also benefits from the multiplicity of nationalities in Xinjiang. While Uighurs are the largest ethnic group, accounting for 45 percent of the population, they are still a minority. It is not clear how well the Uighurs could work with other minorities to build an alliance against China.
Moreover, the Government has tried very hard to win support from Muslims in Xinjiang. The standard Communist Party approach is to shower benefits on those who accept party rule and to repress mercilessly those who rebel.
Uighurs and minority groups have their own schools, for example, and teaching is conducted in their own languages. Television and radio broadcasts also use Turkic languages, so a large proportion of people in Xinjiang speak about as much Chinese as the average New Yorker.
Affirmative action programs give members of minorities preferential access to universities.The Communists also allow people to go to mosques freely.
 
Religious Freedom, But Political Fealty

On the other hand, any Muslim leader, or imam, who criticizes the Government risks immediate arrest. After the Baren rebellion, the Xinjiang authorities closed 50 religious sites in that district and ordered construction halted on 153 other mosques. In the Kashgar area, investigations were launched of some 12,000 religious figures.
In September 1990, the Government formally issued new rules requiring religious leaders in Xinjiang to support Communist Party rule and to "oppose national separatism."
The new rules also ban the teaching of religion outside of mosques or officially approved Islamic organizations.
The authorities seem concerned that the growing economic integration of Xinjiang with its Islamic neighbors is adding to the centrifugal pressures in Xinjiang. Likewise, increasing urbanization and growing mobility of local people may be feeding a nationalist consciousness.
So while it is difficult to know whether the tensions in Xinjiang are explosive or simply another in a long list of headaches for leaders in Beijing, the authorities are clearly alarmed. Just last month, after the bombing of the Oasis Hotel in Kashgar, Song Hanliang, the Xinjiang Communist Party leader, warned that the need to "cement national unity" is growing with the economic development in the region.
In a sign of the leadership's concern, he called on local party officials to do more to protect national unity, urging, "They should adopt substantial measures to guard against and oppose the sabotage of national separatists at home and abroad, to safeguard the unity of the motherland."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A bomb left a gaping hole in the Oasis Hotel in Kashgar, China. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Buyers and sellers browsing among gold-colored chests at the outdoor Kashgar market in the south of Xinjiang, China. If the Chinese empire disintegrates after the death of Deng Xiaoping, the frail senior leader, Xinjiang may be one of the first territories to spin off into its own orbit. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times) (pg. 2)
 
Map of Kashgar, China (pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST CHINA (96%); XINJIANG, CHINA (96%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OASIS HOTEL (CHINA) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OASIS HOTEL (CHINA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; KASHGAR (CHINA); XINJIANG PROVINCE (CHINA) CHINA (97%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (96%); XINJIANG, CHINA (96%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HORSES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); RELIGION (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); DESERTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (67%); 

PERSON: DENG XIAOPING; KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D DALAI LAMA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



358 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 The Free-Trade Accord
The United States, Canada and Mexico reached agreement on side deals aimed at satisfying opponents of the North American Free Trade Agreement. But the deals did not mollify some Congressional critics, and the pact's prospects are in doubt. [Page 1.]
A horde of interest groups sprang into action either to praise or denounce the side agreements to the trade accord. [45.]
Canada's Prime Minister won a gamble in taking a hard line on labor and environmental issues. [45]
Mexico agreed to the very penalties for violations of labor and environmental laws that it had opposed: trade sanctions. [45.]
 
 The Economy
Americans are even more discouraged about the economy and their own financial situations than they were before the Aug. 6 vote on President Clinton's budget, according to two widely followed consumer-confidence polls taken in the first half of August. [33.]
Inflation has been negligible this summer. The Consumer Price Index inched up just one-tenth of 1 percent in July, driving the three-month rate to 0.8 percent on an annual basis. [42.]
 
 International
The South Korean stock market plunged 4.5 percent in reaction to financial reforms that include banning all transactions under false names. [46.]
 
 Companies
The Donna Karan Company will sell its stock to the public. The company provided few details, but people involved in the deal said that 11 million shares would be offered for $15 to $17 each. [33.]
Algoma Steel's experiment in worker ownership has yielded its first operating profit. [33.]
A ruling that Borland infringed on Lotus Development's copyrights is another blow to a company that has fallen prey to price wars, product delays and restructuring charges. [33.]
Prudential Securities says it is close to settling a class-action suit by investors in a 1980's limited partnership. [35.]
Fieldcrest Cannon plans to buy the Amoskeag Company, its longtime majority shareholder, for $137.6 million. [35]
Bristol-Myers Squibb won't renew a supply contract for its Taxol cancer drug with Hauser Chemical Research. Hauser's shares plunged, losing more than half their value. [35].
Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks rose 3.6 percent in early August, as dwindling dealer inventories caused some shoppers to postpone their purchases. [35.]
 
 Markets
The dollar dropped below 100 yen, at least for American tourists and business executives who exchange money at banks and hotels in Japan. [33.]
Stock prices were was flat on the 11th anniversary of the start of the Great Wall Street Bull Market. The Dow industrials slipped 0.56 point, to 3,569.65. [34.]
Treasury prices rallied, driving the yield on the 30-year bond to another record low as investors pushed aside inflation fears. [42.]
Gasoline prices retreated, leading crude oil prices lower; traders said a recent plunge in stockpiles did not reflect a rise in demand. Gold and silver advanced. [44.]
 
 Your Money
Only 13 percent of Social Security recipients will be affected by the new tax law, according to Government estimates. [31.]
Cold calling by brokers has turned into a hot industry, but it's easy to get burned. [31.]
Americans are becoming more dependent on lawyers, even as public esteem for the profession has declined sharply. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2392 HOUSEFURNISHINGS, EXCEPT CURTAINS & DRAPERIES (64%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMOSKEAG CO (64%); ALGOMA STEEL INC (54%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%); HAUSER CHEMICAL RESEARCH INC (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BUDGETS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); CANCER DRUGS (61%); CANCER (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); FINES & PENALTIES (55%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



359 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: THE FREE-TRADE ACCORD;
Accords Fail to Redraw Battle Lines Over Pact

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13

 BODY:
A horde of interest groups sprang into action today to praise or denounce President Clinton's new side agreements to the free trade pact with Mexico and Canada.
The new agreements on labor and environmental issues have changed virtually no one's position on the North American Free Trade Agreement. That is bad news for the Clinton Administration because the most organized and numerous pressure groups are those that fear they will be hurt by the pact, and the Administration was counting on the agreements to bring some of them around. 
 The over-arching purpose of the new agreements was to placate labor and environmental groups. Such groups have contended that the pact would flood the United States with cheap goods made in low-wage establishments that keep costs down by neglecting the environment and the safety and health of workers. None of these groups seemed willing to budge today.
 
'It's a Sellout'
 "It's a sellout, and we're not going to stand for it," William H. Bywater, president of the International Union of Electrical Workers, said in a statement. "A fig leaf," added Jack Sheinkman, president of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, which represents workers in the textile industry.
Environmental groups were equally unimpressed. "A pale shade of green window dressing," snapped Barbara Dudley, the executive director of the environmental group Greenpeace.
"It's limited progress, and we're glad to see it, but they've neglected a good chunk of the essential changes that need to be made," said J. Michael McCloskey, the chairman of the Sierra Club. Mr. McCloskey argued that the countries had failed to allocate enough money for cleaning up the border region between the United States and Mexico and that Mexican companies could even use the new pact to challenge American pollution-control laws.
Ross Perot, who made opposition to the trade pact a significant theme of his Presidential campaign last year, was equally harsh. "The North American Free Trade Agreement is another in a long series of one-sided trade agreements that damage our ability to create and keep jobs in the United States," he said. He said foreign lobbyists who favor the agreement "must not be allowed to dictate the future of working Americans."
 
A Big New Market
 Business supporters of the free-trade agreement welcomed the break-through in negotiations, though some companies expressed concerns that the side agreements would impose too many restrictions. The National Association of Manufacturers called today's agreements a "crucial milestone." There was similar praise from the United States Chamber of Commerce, a coalition of big computer companies and other business groups.
Both the debate and the impact of the free trade agreement extend far beyond the Washington Beltway to almost every part of the country. Huge retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and J. C. Penney want to open stores in Mexico and say that lower trade barriers are crucial because many of their products must be shipped from the United States to Mexico.
Computer companies like Apple Computer and Sun Microsystems as well as the Big Three American auto makers see Mexico as a large potential market and as a possible site for low-cost factories. A.T.& T. hopes to export more of its huge telephone switching systems.
 
'Mexico Is Very Strategic'
 Since 1987, American exports of electronics equipment to both Mexico and Canada have more than doubled and now total $19 billion a year. "Mexico is very strategic for us over the long term because we believe the Mexican economy will continue to grow and with that growth will add to the requirements for computers," said Chuck Mulloy, a spokesman for Sun Microsystems.
David Willette, vice president for operations at the Occidental Chemical Corporation in Dallas, said, "It's an important issue, because there are a lot of synergies between the United States and Mexico. Occidental, which produces industrial chemicals and petroleum-based products like PVC pipe, hopes to form manufacturing partnerships in Mexico and increase sales to that country.
Yet the fears of labor leaders also run deep and were not quieted by the new agreements. Union officials in California say the state has already lost thousands of jobs to Mexico in furniture-making, textiles and even electronic equipment.
"Our worry used to be that this would only hurt low-skill, low-paying jobs, but that has proved not to be the case," said Victor Munoz, a regional staff representative with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Los Angeles. "When you're only paying workers a few dollars a day, you can train them for weeks. So Mexican workers are becoming a highly trained, highly productive work force. What we had been wanting was some sort of harmonization on wages as well as basic Mexican worker rights."
Under the new agreement, the three countries agreed to enforce their existing laws and to create three-nation commissions that could deal with complaints if the laws are not enforced. But critics of the side agreements say they provide little real protection.
"The commission process is unworkable," said Lori Wallach, the director of the trade program at Public Citizen, a nonprofit advocacy group. "Only a very narrow set of issues can even be studied. There are no time lines. The so-called teeth are inaccessible at the end of a long and tortuous path."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Complaints Would Be Handled" shows how labor and environmental issues will be handled under North American Free Trade Agreement. (Source: Office of the United States Trade Representative)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (59%); UNITE HERE (55%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (59%); UNITE HERE (55%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; LABOR; ENVIRONMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LOBBYING (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RETAILERS (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); TEXTILES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



360 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Near 100-Yen Level; For Tourists, It's There Now

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 13

 BODY:
The United States dollar crossed a historic threshold today when its value dropped below 100 Japanese yen, at least for American tourists and business executives who exchange money at banks and hotels.
In currency trading here, the dollar continued to fall rapidly, closing at 102.40 yen, down 0.97 yen from the Thursday close in Tokyo, and at one point in the day it hit 101.80, a record low since modern exchange rates were set in 1949. 
 Later in New York, the dollar again fell below 102 yen, ending trading at 101.85 yen, down 1.06 yen from the day before.
Traders say the dollar could officially drop below 100 yen as early as next week.
But Linda Ricketts, who is visiting from Alameda, Calif., crossed the psychological barrier today when she received only 99.75 yen for each dollar. That was the rate offered here today at hotels and by American Express, which pay less than the prevailing rate after subtracting their conversion charges.
"I was very disappointed," she said, describing her reaction when she received her yen. "I wanted to know what happened to the rest of it."
Currency clerks at major Tokyo hotels reported that travelers made wry faces and sarcastic remarks upon seeing the posted rates, and often walked away, hoping for more favorable rates another day.
The one-yen coin, a sliver of aluminum so light that it seems, if thrown in the air, that it won't fall back to earth, is now worth as much as the copper penny. But except for the fact that the arithmetic of currency conversion is now very easy, Americans here found little to cheer about.
"I think I attach a little bit of pride to the currency and feel a little bit inferior when the dollar is weak," said Frank Levy, a tourist from Boston.
For most people, however, the concern was more practical. The falling dollar and rising yen makes this city, known for $5 cups of coffee and $100 muskmelons, even more outrageously expensive for someone who thinks in terms of dollars.
"I'm not going to buy as much," said Rochelle Levy, Mr. Levy's mother, who is from Des Moines. "We're just walking the Ginza at night hoping the stores are closed, just to see."
 
 
Big Headache for Exporters
 The problems of American tourists are literally pennies -- or should that be yen? -- compared with those of Japan's giant automobile and electronics companies. Each one-yen drop in the value of the dollar can cost a big company millions of dollars in lost annual revenues as it converts sales abroad back into yen. In addition, Japanese products are becoming less competitive in the United States because their price has risen in dollars.
Japanese Government officials expressed concern today about the yen's rise, saying it could lengthen Japan's recession. They called on the leading nations to cooperate to try to stabilize currency values. Traders said it appeared that the Bank of Japan intervened in the market to slow the yen's rise by selling yen and buying dollars and German marks.
In 1970, the dollar was worth 360 yen, and as recently as 1985 it was worth nearly 240 yen. The long and pronounced rise of the yen reflects Japan's coming of age as an industrial power and its accumulation of huge trade surpluses as its automobiles and videocassette recorders conquered the world.
The yen, which was trading at 125 to the dollar at the beginning of the year, has strengthened about 18 percent since then, largely because of speculation that the United States and other governments will work to raise the yen's value in an effort to cut Japan's trade surplus.
 
 
Aggravated by Trade Figures
 The yen's appreciation began accelerating Wednesday, when Japan released trade figures showing its overall trade surplus had risen in July an unexpectedly sharp 28 percent from the year earlier and its surplus with the United States had jumped 23 percent.
"It would look to me now that the dollar-yen is bottomless unless the Japanese can come to some trade agreement with the Americans," said Eddie Wong, vice president for foreign-exchange trading at the Bank of America's office in Tokyo.
So far, however, Japan's surpluses have only grown, even as its currency has strengthened. In part, that is because Japanese industry has shifted to making more expensive products.
The overall trade surplus, measured on a customs-clearance basis, was $400 million in 1970 and about $106 billion last year. In other words, Japan's trade surplus each week is now five times as large as it was for all of 1970.
As strong as the yen is now, it was once much stronger. When the yen was established in 1871, it was worth the same as the American dollar, according to "The History of the Yen," a book by Noboyoshi Araki. With currency values at that time based on gold, the yen coin was given the same amount of gold as the American dollar coin.
As recently as the days after World War II, exchanges could be made at 10 yen to the dollar. But after Japanese inflation weakened the yen, the rate was officially fixed at 360 yen to the dollar in 1949.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ELECTRONICS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



361 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: As Trading Slows, Dow Ends Up 9.22 for Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
What started out as a promising week for stocks ended in disappointment on the 11th anniversary of the start of the Great Wall Street Bull Market. Trading faded yesterday, leaving market barometers only slightly higher, as the Dow Jones industrial average slipped 0.56 point for the day, to 3,569.65, but up 9.22 points on the week.
Dennis E. Jarrett, the chief market analyst at Kidder, Peabody & Company, said, "It was a typical summer Friday with volume on the low side." 
 The next two weeks, the peak vacation weeks and traditionally the slowest of the summer, should bring more of the same, he added. Mr. Jarrett said he did see some investors in auto stocks take profits yesterday, along with technology issues, which have been up the last few weeks.
Du Pont was the only real strength among the Dow components, after a better-than-expected settlement of a lawsuit that had contended that Du Pont's fungicide Benlate damaged crops. The stock rose 1 3/8, to 48 1/8.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 214.4 million shares, down from 278.5 million shares on Thursday. Gainers outpaced declining issues, 1,028 to 860.
 
 
Summertime Apathy
 Analysts at MMS International said yesterday's typical summer Friday trading might explain some of the market's apathy. But they also said the outlook for earnings improvement appeared less rosy amid the somewhat conflicting indications of slow inflation, as seen in the yesterday's report on consumer prices and limited growth prospects, as suggested by the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index. The Consumer Price Index inched up just a tenth of 1 percent in July, an increase that was lower than expected. The university's consumer index, based on a telephone poll of 280 families, slipped to 75.4 percent, from 77 percent, in the preliminary August tally.
Oil stocks were firm after Exxon said it expected prices to go up throughout the year; its stock rose 1/4, to 64 7/8.
Elsewhere, Baxter International fell 1 3/4, to 24. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jesse Brown announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs had suspended the hospital-supplies company from competing for new Government contracts, a decision based on accusations that Baxter had misled the agency's purchasing agents.
Bristol-Myers Squibb's notice to Hauser Chemical Research that their supply agreement would not be extended beyond the expiration date caused Hauser shares to lose more than 50 percent of value, plunging 7 7/8, to 6 5/8.
The Food and Drug Administration gave Schering-Plough approval to market its once-a-day oral drug to prevent angina brought on by coronary artery disease. The drug manufacturer's stock rose 1/4, to 58 1/2.
Motor Club of America rose by 1, to 3 1/4, after the property and casualty insurer posted second-quarter earnings of 48 cents a share, in contrast with a loss a year ago.
 
 
Auto Stocks Weak
 Auto stocks were weak. Analysts said sales of domestically built cars and trucks rose a modest 3.6 percent in the first 10 days of August. Chrysler was down 1/2, to 42 1/2; G.M. fell 1 1/2, to 45 3/4, and Ford was down 1/2, to 51 7/8.
The Bairnco Corporation, a manufacturer of electrical equipment, industrial products and specialty construction products, was named in an asbestos lawsuit, along with three units. Its stock fell 1 1/8, to 4 1/8.
In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 stock issues fell 20.11 points yesterday, or a tenth of 1 percent, to 20,745.17.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAX (SWX) (64%); BAX (NYSE) (64%); BMY (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (72%); BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (51%); HAUSER CHEMICAL RESEARCH INC (51%); PRESERVER GROUP INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (62%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (60%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



362 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Experiment in Worker Ownership Shows a Profit

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAULT STE. MARIE, Ontario

 BODY:
One of the largest North American experiments in worker ownership, at the big Algoma steel enterprise in the shadow of the International Bridge that links Canada to northern Michigan, has yielded its first operating profit.
As a result, this town of 83,000, which only two years ago feared economic devastation from the threatened closing of Algoma Steel Inc., its largest employer by far, is breathing a little easier. 
 "The wolf is still out there, but he's no longer at the door," Mayor Joe Fratesi said.
 
 
Brighter Prospects
 A less adversarial work environment and stronger demand for automotive steel have brightened the prospects for Algoma, Canada's third-largest steel company. And a United States trade ruling on July 27 denying American steel companies protection from certain imports from Canada and 20 other countries has removed another cloud.
W. Allan Hopkins, Algoma's new chief executive, a former marketing specialist for Stelco Inc., Canada's biggest steelmaker, is guardedly optimistic about the future.
"We are re-establishing our credibility with employees, suppliers and customers and stopping the bleeding of cash," he said in an interview at the headquarters building of the sprawling plant, guarded by phalanxes of Canada geese.
Algoma recently reported operating earnings of $3.2 million (Canadian) for the second quarter that ended June 30, up from a loss of $11.1 million for the first quarter.
 "If you had asked me a few months ago, I would have told you morale in this place stinks," Mr. Hopkins, 54, said. "But now I can say the situation is better, and we're even starting to see the success stories of worker empowerment."
Interviews with workers filled in the text for some of these stories.
"Before, you left your brains at the gate," said Nick Caruso, 48, a stationary engineer in the steam plant. "Now you take your brains through the gate and are allowed to use them. That's the big difference."
 Mike Kordupel, 43, who repairs instruments in the electrical maintenance shop, said: "We're a team now. We have input through committees. We're saving a lot of money because of ideas from the little guy. That's how we're going to survive."
The United Steelworkers of America, which orchestrated the employee buyout, is trying to transform traditional workplace concepts of workers blindly carrying out management orders.
Under the new arrangement, workers now control 4 of the company's 13 board seats. They have the right to approve major company actions, including layoffs. In addition, supervisors act less as bosses than as coaches and coordinators.
Tom Bonell, 42, vice president of United Steelworkers Local 2251, which represents most of the workers in the plant, said, "We want everyone to feel like they are owners and not just punch their butts into a shift."
Mr. Caruso said that in his department, the new owner-workers have already taken steps to reduce overtime. "Now we all cover for a man who books off for a day rather than work overtime or hire a replacement," he said. "We are learning more about each other's jobs now. We can double up."
Gary Premo, 40, a former locomotive operator in the mill, who now teaches one of the special union classes in workplace problem-solving, said, "It's still a them-and-us situation, but less militant now."
But Mr. Bonell, the union official who is the son of a steelworker who quit high school to shovel coke at the mill, says he is still not used to the owner-worker role, although he is convinced it will be the wave of the future. "We'll be the model across Canada," he said.
To become owners and to save the company from collapse, the 4,500 Algoma workers gave up 15 percent of their pay, which now averages $15.88 dollars an hour, or about $12 United States, and a week's vacation.
 
 
Threatened Shutdown
 In 1991, after undergoing a bitter strike and suffering huge losses, Algoma's previous owner, Dofasco Inc., decided to write off its entire $713 million (Canadian) Algoma investment. Dofasco, based in Hamilton, Ontario, is Canada's No. 2 steelmaker.
The realization that Algoma could be shut down galvanized the community and the union into action.
"The economic and social implications were totally unacceptable," said Frank S. Sarlo, a former steelworker who is now a prominent local lawyer. Mr. Sarlo and Mayor Fratesi organized community support for the buyout.
As it had done in the United States, the United Steelworkers put together a restructuring plan that was acceptable to the owners, lenders and managers.
The president of the international union is Canadian-born Lynn R. Williams, who is one of the leading North American advocates of worker empowerment.
Many of the union's ideas are borrowed from German and Scandinavian factories, where union-management panels have long studied production glitches, gaps in communication, design of the work station and other problems of the workplace, and where unions have long had representation on company boards.
The union, which represents workers in the United States and Canada, says it has put together about 25 worker-ownership plans, from small minority stakes to controlling interests.
Algoma, which once employed 12,000 people, is one of the biggest companies and the first in Canada to try worker ownership.
 
 
Employee Stock Plan
 Under the Algoma plan, which went into effect on June 1, 1992, the pay that workers sacrifice as their contribution to the company's solvency goes into a fund that will buy them 26.3 million shares, or 57 percent, of Algoma common stock in 1997, when the first phase of restructuring is completed.
Although the workers must wait four years before they get their stock, some of the other common shares, which were used chiefly to pay off creditors, are traded infrequently over the counter in Toronto.
Algoma shares, which traded at 20 cents (Canadian) as recently as July 12, were at 85 cents yesterday.
Each employee will receive an average of 3,000 shares. To attract its new chief executive, Mr. Hopkins, from his job as a senior vice president at Stelco, the new Algoma board authorized that he be issued 1,250,000 shares, originally worth no more than $10,000 (Canadian).
Union officials said the arrangement was essential to attract an executive of his caliber. The company's meager cash reserves kept it from otherwise offering an attractive compensation package. Mr. Hopkins's pay has never been disclosed, but it is estimated to be in the low six figures.
"The best thing that could happen to us all is for Al Hopkins to become a multimillionaire," Mr. Bonell of the Steelworkers said.
Algoma's operating profit helped reduce its net loss for the quarter to $4.5 million (Canadian), from $17.8 million, for the first three months. Dividends to preferred shareholders accounted for most of the loss.
 
 
'Bullish' on Steel
 The latest results have attracted some interest in Bay Street, the Wall Street of Toronto. Margaret Cornish-Kehoe, a steel analyst for Scotia McLeod Inc., a leading Bay Street brokerage firm, said she was "bullish" on steel because of the automotive pickup. She sees "continued recovery" for Algoma "on a cash basis for the next two or three years."
But, she stressed, "it remains to be seen whether the longer-term strategic issues," which she identified as the need to leave certain sectors like structural steel, "will be dealt with."
And as insulation from any further threatened disasters in steel, Mayor Fratesi is urgently trying to diversify Sault Ste. Marie's economic base with development initiatives in tourism, transportation and forestry.
Still, workers are optimistic about Algoma's grand experiment.
Ron Hayes, 38, who runs a continuous caster that makes tubular, rail and structural I-beams, said: "Communications are better. Now the men are saying, 'What can we do to make the quality better and take the bugs out?' "
And Terry Matthews, 39, who works in a quality-control lab at the plant, said: "It's more democratic now. They don't try to hide everything. They keep everything open."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker-ownership plan has breathed new life into the large Algoma steel plant in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, along the St. Marys River (pg. 33); "We are reestablishing our credibility with employees, suppliers and customers and stopping the bleeding of cash," said W. Allan Hopkins, new chief executive officer of Algoma Steel in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. (pg. 46) (Ritchie Elisavietta for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AGA (TSX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (93%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); 

CITY: SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (93%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (93%); 

COMPANY: ALGOMA STEEL INC ALGOMA STEEL INC (93%); U S STEEL CANADA INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALGOMA STEEL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ONTARIO (CANADA) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (93%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; EMPLOYEE OWNED COMPANIES; COMPANY REPORTS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; STEEL AND IRON COMPANY PROFITS (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



363 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: THE FREE-TRADE ACCORD;
Mexico Opts for the Sanctions It Bitterly Opposed

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 13

 BODY:
Determined to see the North American Free Trade Agreement approved in a divided United States Congress, Mexico has agreed to the very penalties for violations of labor and environmental laws that it had steadfastly opposed: sanctions on trade.
But while the Government quickly came under attack today by opposition politicians and other critics for its reversal, the side accords to the trade agreement seemed to trouble the Mexican businessmen who might face sanctions little, if at all. 
 Prices of Mexican stocks shot upward today, with the major market index, the I.P.C., rising 3.69 percent, apparently in the hope that the accord was a big step closer to taking effect as planned in January.
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari moved quickly to sell the deal to his countrymen. In a radio and television address, Mr. Salinas said that with the Mexican economy stabilizing and a trade accord expected to improve the outlook further, the Government would begin raising the minimum wage in line with worker productivity.
Officials did not make clear how this pledge would be put into effect. Several economists said the move would probably have immediate benefits for the roughly one-fifth of Mexican workers who earn the minimum -- $4.21 a day. They said because that wage serves as a benchmark for the economy, Mr. Salinas's proposal would probably raise pay in areas like manufacturing.
The economists also said that higher wages would increase pressure on prices, just as the annualized inflation rate has been brought below 10 percent for the first time in years. And while productivity has been relatively high in recent years as big companies reduced their work forces while simultaneously increasing output, a higher minimum wage will put pressure on smaller companies to do the same, analysts said.
"It's a wonderful thing for the workers, except that now smaller companies will have an additional reason to lay some of their employees off," an economic consultant, Rogelio Ramirez de la O, said.
Political analysts said anything that seemed like an increase in the wages fixed by agreement among the Government, labor unions and business associations might strengthen the desire of Mexican workers for a trade agreement, one with consequences that are still only vaguely understood by most people here.
In his speech, Mr. Salinas repeatedly made the connection between freer trade and higher wages explicit. "The treaty we have signed and the agreements we have concluded today," he said, "will allow us to grow more, and advance our aims that the benefits of the change reach the entire population, and principally, the families of the most needy Mexicans."
The President glossed over Mexico's agreement to the United States' demand that trade sanctions be imposed as the punishment of last resort if a company failed to pay fines imposed for repeatedly breaking labor or environmental laws.
But Government critics hammered at the point, saying it proved that Mr. Salinas was willing to sacrifice Mexican principles and sovereignty by caving in to the United States days after Trade Minister Jaime Serra Puche had insisted that sanctions were out of the question.
Diplomats and others thought Mr. Serra had apparently created a fig leaf to cover the reversal, leaking a document saying he would never agree to allow foreigners to sue the Mexican Government in Mexican courts.
Even though legislators in the United States had never sought such a remedy for violations, but had asked for trade sanctions, Mr. Serra held out the promise of Mexico not being sued as a great negotiating victory.
The issue of sanctions seems to have been more important to the Government than to the businessmen who might face penalties.
"I don't see these accords as anything bad or threatening," said Lorenzo Zambrano, the chief executive of Cementos Mexicanos, one of Mexico's biggest industrial companies, in an interview. "The important thing is that the free trade agreement itself, and the agreements finished here, can now be sold to a mostly Democratic Congress in the United States. The real fight is still ahead, but at least we now have a fighting chance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); LABOR; ENVIRONMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INFLATION (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); TRENDS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) ; ANDREWS, EDMUND L CARLOS SALINAS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



364 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: New Quarrel Delaying Plans for Coliseum Development

BYLINE: By JEANNE B. PINDER

 BODY:
Plans to develop the site of the New York Coliseum were delayed again yesterday by a quarrel between the city and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority over negotiations with Mortimer B. Zuckerman, three days before a city deadline for signing a contract with Mr. Zuckerman.
In the latest twist in the plan to build on the site at 59th Street and Columbus Circle, the Dinkins administration accused the M.T.A. of being unreasonable in its negotiations with Mr. Zuckerman, who has been seeking to scale back the project and to reduce the price of the land. 
 The M.T.A. rejected the city's accusation, but the city's charge appeared to set the stage for a new set of talks on the coliseum, this time with mediation by Vincent Tese, Commissioner of the State Department of Economic Development.
 
Victory for Zuckerman
 The city's decision was a victory, at least temporarily, for Mr. Zuckerman, and a setback for the M.T.A. Because of the complicated ownership and sale agreement on the coliseum, both the M.T.A. and the city must agree on Mr. Zuckerman's new offer for the site, one of the choicest for development in the city.
Mr. Zuckerman has been trying to persuade the M.T.A. to lower the price of the coliseum site from the level set in 1985, when he first agreed to buy it, and to allow him to both buy the land and build in stages. The perennially cash-strapped M.T.A. has been reluctant to cut the price, and has been wary of such a two-stage arrangement.
 
Proposals Scaled Back
 Mr. Zuckerman won the right to develop the property through his Boston Properties concern at the peak of the real-estate boom in New York. His plans have been scaled back twice after public criticism and court challenges, only to get caught in the crash of the office-space market, resulting in yet another scaled-back proposal submitted to the M.T.A. two weeks ago.
The Boston Properties proposal "needs improvement and refinement in a number of key areas before it would be acceptable to the city and, presumably, to the M.T.A.," Barry F. Sullivan, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, said in a letter yesterday to Peter E. Stangl, chairman of the M.T.A. "Unfortunately, the M.T.A.'s actions suggest that it is unwilling to engage in a constructive dialogue with Boston Properties." Mr. Sullivan added that the M.T.A.'s approach was not in accord with a request from Mayor David N. Dinkins that the sides carry on "reasonable and responsible negotiations."
 
Latest Zuckerman Proposal
 Mr. Stangl could not be reached yesterday, but Robert Bergen, general counsel of the M.T.A., said: "We think we've been acting reasonably and responsibly for the last 10 months, negotiating with the city and with Boston Properties. This is the first time we've heard this allegation and we obviously reject it completely."
None of the parties to the talks would discuss the substance of the latest Zuckerman proposal, but it has been reported to include a first building with 700,000 square feet of office space and 150,000 square feet of retail space, to be followed at some time in the future by a second building. While the current price tag on the site is $338.6 million, people familiar with the talks have said Mr. Zuckerman wants to buy the land for the first building for $62 million, and to leave the price of the rest of the land to be negotiated later.
 
Price at Issue
 These people have said the M.T.A. does not want to leave the price up in the air while the agency holds the land for Mr. Zuckerman. Further, the M.T.A. is said to believe that Mr. Zuckerman wants to delay any building until the real-estate market becomes stronger. Mr. Zuckerman's option on the land keeps the M.T.A. from renting the exhibition hall at the site for anything except the most temporary uses.
Under the current agreement with Mr. Zuckerman, the M.T.A. would collect on a $33.8 million letter of credit that Mr. Zuckerman maintains as a down payment on the site should he fail to reach an agreement on the nature of the development by a formal closing date. Last month, the M.T.A. asked the city to join in issuing a formal notice of intent to close the sale in an effort to reach an agreement with Mr. Zuckerman or, failing that, to go on to other plans for the site.
But Mr. Sullivan pointed out in his letter that such a closing notice would end the city's influence over the site, and added that the city wanted to consider "the broader economic and planning ramifications of any use of the Coliseum site" rather than just the price of the land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BXP (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (90%); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; CONTRACTS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: PINDER, JEANNE B; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



365 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: 2 Polls Show Pessimism by Consumers

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13

 BODY:
Two widely followed consumer confidence polls taken in the first half of August show Americans are even more discouraged about the economy and their own financial situations than they were before the Aug. 6 vote on President Clinton's budget.
This suggests that most consumers, already as depressed about economic prospects as they were when George Bush was in the White House, have not accepted the Clinton Administration's assurances that its plan to raise taxes and restrain spending will help get the economy moving and benefit all but the richest Americans. 
 "It didn't do what the Adminstration hoped," said Richard Curtin, director of the Survey Research Center at the University of Michigan. "It didn't improve consumers' sense of confidence in the economy."
 
Reluctance to Raise Prices
 The sense of a sluggish economy found in the poll has contributed to reluctance by retailers to raise prices, reflected in an increase of only one-tenth of 1 percent in July in the Consumer Price Index. [Page 42]
Many Administration officials had predicted that passage of the President's budget would restore consumers confidence in Government and the economy. They cited the expected rebound in spirits, which could shore up consumer spending, as an important reason for higher income taxes not to slow the economy in the near term.
"There is no question that our opponents have been very successful in misleading average Americans about the tax implications in our plan," said Gene Sperling, deputy assistant to the President for economic policy, who admitted the White House had been less than effective in getting its message across.
A regular weekly poll by ABC and Money magazine showed a sharp deterioration in confidence immediately after the budget vote on Aug. 6. The consumer confidence index, based on the ABC/Money magazine telephone poll of 125 families, conducted on the weekend of Aug. 7 and 8, fell a sharp 7 points from the previous week. ABC/ Money magazine released the results, normally given only for four-week periods, to The New York Times today.
While consumers' views of the national economy and buying conditions changed only slightly from the previous week, the fraction who reported that their personal finances were in bad shape jumped from 46 percent to 53 percent, the biggest weekly jump in the poll's history.
"The White House message just isn't getting through," said Jordan Goodman, director of the ABC/Money Magazine poll. "Even the people who voted for Clinton feel betrayed."
A second poll, a proprietary survey by the University of Michigan, whose results are incorporated into the Government's official forecasting gauge, also showed that the consumer mood, already dismal, worsened in the first half of August.
 
Lowest Since Winter of '92
 Its consumer sentiment index, based on a telephone poll of 280 families in the first half of this month, declined from 77 points to 75.4 points, the lowest level since the winter of 1992 and down sharply from 83 points last December. The proportion of respondents who expected the economy to get worse in the next year jumped from 69 percent in July to 80 percent in the first half of August.
Two results in the Michigan poll particularly concerned Administration officials, who are among those who receive faxes with the polling data. One showed that 9 percent of Americans approved of the nation's economic policies in early August while 36 percent disapproved, the same proportion as in July. The other showed that, by a margin of 5 to 1, consumers described the news they had heard about changes in economic policy in negative terms.
While confidence is not the sole determinant of spending, the fact that spirits are not reviving at a time when income growth is sluggish concerns most economists.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Inventory-Sales Ratio" show total month-end busienss inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); HISTORY (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



366 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Price Index Up Bare 0.1%

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13

 BODY:
Inflation has all but disappeared this summer -- though not for good, by the assessments of government and private economists.
The Consumer Price Index, the broadest measure of inflation, inched up just one-tenth of 1 percent in July, the Labor Department reported today, driving the three-month rate to eight-tenths of 1 percent on an annual basis. That is the lowest for any three-month period since mid-1986, when oil prices came crashing down. 
 "We've had a real deceleration," said David Kelly, an economist at Economic Advisers Inc. "That's consistent with everybody getting more pessimistic about the prospects for a much stronger expansion."
The effects of the Midwest flood were hard to see, though the drought in the Southeast made fruit more expensive. Beef and vegetables prices headed lower and gasoline prices fell sharply, too.
 
Service Costs Are Subdued
 Further, core inflation -- prices for everthing but food and energy, which tend to fluctuate widely -- rose no faster than the overall index, even though air travelers are paying roughly 20 percent more than they were last summer during the airline fare wars. That is partly because service prices, even health care charges, which rose four-tenths of 1 percent last month, have been remarkably subdued of late.
What is happening, it is widely agreed, is that the sluggish economic expansion is discouraging retailers from raising prices.
Today's report is good news for the bond market, where yields have fallen in recent weeks, and for the Clinton Administration, which had been predicting that the inflationary pressures that emerged this winter would unwind later in the year. In the first four months of the year, by contrast, consumer prices rose at a 4.5 percent rate.
But there are signs that price increases are looming. Colleges are already announcing large tuition increases for the fall, apparel makers are getting set to mark up clothing prices and the gasoline tax will add 4.3 cents a gallon at the pump as of Oct. 1. That, said Patrick Jackman, the economist responsible for the Consumer Price Index at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, will add a tenth of a percent to the index that month.
In a separate report today, the Commerce Department said business inventories increased in June by a modest two-tenths of 1 percent, the same as in May. June's increase left the ratio of inventories to sales steady at 1.47 months, the time it would take to use up stocks if sales continued at the June pace. The slow growth is an indication that business remains cautious about future sales.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Prices" shows percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (76%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); FOOD PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); BONDS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); BEEF (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); FUEL TAX (71%); AIR FARES (67%); BOND MARKETS (64%); APPAREL MFG (62%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



367 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Early August Vehicle Sales Rose 3.6%

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 13

 BODY:
Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks rose just 3.6 percent in early August, compared with a weak year-earlier period, as dwindling dealer inventories caused some shoppers to postpone their purchases.
Brisk sales through May, June and July coincided with plant shutdowns for the changeover to new models, causing inventories to fall. 
 Sales of domestically built cars gained 2.8 percent in the Aug. 1-10 period, to 126,295, while sales of light trucks -- which include mini-vans, sport-utility vehicles and pickups -- advanced 4.7 percent, to 103,197. Vehicle sales of 229,492 compared with sales of 221,450 last year.
 
 
Annual Rate of 5.8 Million
 The seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales in early August was 5.8 million, the same as a year earlier, but down from 6.5 million in late July.
"Certain models are in short supply," said David Healy, automotive analyst for S. G. Warburg in New York. In late July, dealers had about a 51-day supply of cars, lower than the 65-day supply that is considered normal. But dealers are trying to sell their remaining 1993 vehicles to make way for 1994 models.
Dealers generally report that they expect the sales uptick to continue. Bill Riggins, the new-car manager for Sims Buick-GMC Truck in Warren, Ohio, said orders of new vehicles were strong. He added: "We're optimistic. It's the only way to be. We expect a banner year."
In Detroit and other cities tied to the economy of the auto industry, car sales have slowed a bit, dealers reported, in anticipation of final contract talks between the United Automobile Workers union and the Big Three auto makers. Typically, auto workers avoid large purchases when there is a possibility they may soon be on strike.
For reporting purposes, cars built in North America are considered domestic. Sales of North American-made cars by the General Motors Corporation rose a slight 1.2 percent, to 53,241. The Cadillac, Saturn and Oldsmobile brands managed increases. Light-truck sales fell 6.2 percent, to 35,842, mainly because supplies of pickups were short.
Car sales by the Ford Motor Company gained only eight-tenths of a percent, to 39,094. Light trucks were up 13.7 percent, to 37,436.
 The Chrysler Corporation's domestic car sales were estimated at 12,600, up 31.3 percent from a year earlier. Light-truck sales were estimated at 23,300, up 8.4 percent. Ward's Automotive Reports estimates Chrysler's early and midmonth sales, since the auto maker reports sales only at the end of each month.
Sales of North American-built cars by the Honda Motor Company fell 13.8 percent, to 8,473. Honda will soon begin making a fourth-generation version of its Accord midsize car.
The Toyota Motor Corporation's domestic car sales fell 8 percent, to 5,526. Light-truck sales rose 61.6 percent, to 1,821.
The Nissan Motor Company's domestic car sales rose 27.1 percent, to 4,009. Light-truck sales were off 13.9 percent, to 2,887.
The Mazda Motor Corporation's car sales climbed 10.8 percent, to 1,335. Light-truck sales tripled to 612.
Mitsubishi Motor's car sales more than doubled to 1,535.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (80%); 7267 (TSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (80%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); MINIVANS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); STRIKES (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



368 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices for Gasoline Retreat And Gold and Silver Are Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
Gasoline pulled back yesterday from its weeklong rally, leading crude oil prices lower, as traders said a recent plunge in stockpiles did not reflect a rise in demand.
On other commodities markets, gold and silver rose as traders shrugged off this week's second report by the Government that inflation was under control. 
 Gasoline futures soared almost 5 cents a gallon this week, as several big refineries were forced to shut their gasoline-producing units and independent and Government reports showed a sharp drop in inventories.
"It's a three- to five-week phenomenon," said Bill O'Grady of A. G. Edwards. "Stocks always fall this time of year as refiners unload summer specification gasoline. It isn't like there's a permanent increase in gasoline demand."
Yesterday, unleaded gasoline for September delivery fell 0.08 cent, to 56.30 cents a gallon, on the Mercantile Exchange in New York. And crude oil fell 4 cents, to $18.13 a barrel. But heating oil rose 0.95 cent a gallon, to 53.70 cents a gallon.
Precious metals rebounded from their recent losses. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for August delivery rose $1.90 an ounce, to $369.30. December gold, the most actively traded futures contract, also gained $1.90 an ounce, to $372.60. September silver rose 6 cents an ounce, to $4.62.
The gains came even though the Labor Department said consumer prices rose one-tenth of 1 percent in July, less than the two-tenths of 1 percent that traders had expected. On Thursday, the Government said its Producer Price Index fell two-tenths of 1 percent in July.
Gold prices have plunged about 4 percent this week and more than 9 percent, or $38 an ounce, since July 30. The decline came amid signs that inflation is under control, that demand from investors is easing and that tensions in the European Community's Exchange Rate Mechanism are cooling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GASOLINE; GOLD; SILVER FUTURES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); SILVER MARKETS (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); INVENTORIES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



369 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

Making a Will
Q Is it necessary for a person who was recently married to have a will, and if so, how often should it be updated?
 
 JOHN R. KAUFMAN, Durham, N.C.
A Yes, you need a will to legally establish that your estate will be managed and divided as you wish. Otherwise your property passes according to strict state laws, and your estate may be disposed of in a way you would not approve. 
 In New York, for example, if you die without a will, your surviving spouse gets the first $50,000 and half of the balance of your estate, and any children would get the rest.
Once you have a will, it should be kept current by reviewing it at least every three to five years, unless there is a major change in tax laws affecting estates, according to Robert W. Benjamin, a partner in Esanu Katsky Korins & Siger, a New York law firm.
"Certain events should automatically trigger a new look at your will," Mr. Benjamin added. "These include the birth of a child, a significant change in your financial status, a move to another state and the death of an executor or guardian named in the will."
 
Mortgage Investments

 
Q I've heard of collateralized mortgage obligations. What are they?
 
 JEFF NEECK, Manhattan
A A collateralized mortgage obligation, or C.M.O., is a multiclass bond backed by a pool of mortgage pass-through securities. It allows for the principal and interest, as well as any prepayments, to be allocated to different classes of investors to meet specific investment requirements.
The timely payment of principal and interest on most C.M.O.'s is guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae), the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). These agencies buy mortgages from financial institutions.
"When interest rates are declining," said Heather L. Ruth, president of the Public Securities Association, "C.M.O. investors may find they get their principal back sooner than expected and have to reinvest it at lower interest rates. On the other hand, if interest rates rise and prepayments are slower, investors may find their principal committed for a longer period, causing them to miss the opportunity to earn a higher rate of interest."
 
Settling Disputes
Q What is the difference between arbitration and
mediation?
 
 NAOMI FELDHEIM, Great Neck, L.I.
A "Arbitration is the referral of a dispute to one or more impartial persons for a final and binding determination," said Robert Coulson, president of the American Arbitration Association. "Parties can exercise additional controls over the arbitration process by adding specific provisions to their contracts' arbitration clauses."
Arbitration is usually used to settle disputes between securities firms and dissatisfied customers.
Mediation is a process that lets people negotiate with the help of a neutral third party. Mediators do not have the authority to decide issues but try to assist in resolving the dispute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (82%); FNM (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (50%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WILLS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (84%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); INTESTACY (73%); TAX LAW (71%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



370 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
EURO DISNEY REPORTS A DEFICIT OF $83 MILLION

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Euro Disney reported yesterday that it lost 500 million French francs, or $83 million, in its third quarter as the theme park struggled to attract visitors while Europe experiences economic troubles. Euro Disney said revenue at the year-old park east of Paris fell 2 percent, to 1.47 billion francs, or $244 million, in the quarter that ended June 30, from 1.5 billion francs in the corresponding period last year. Revenue was lower even though the park was open fewer days in the year-earlier period. Euro Disney opened on April 12, 1992. The company began re-evaluating its operations last month and is considering a restructuring, a spokeswoman, Debra Gawron, said. The Walt Disney Company, based in Burbank, Calif., owns 49 percent of Euro Disney and last month reported a 17 percent rise in profits for its third quarter, despite the troubles of Euro Disney.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EDL (PAR) (90%); DIS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (90%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: EURO DISNEY SCA EURO DISNEY SCA (90%); WALT DISNEY CO (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: EURO DISNEY SCA

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (73%); UNITED STATES (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



371 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cuba Law Includes More Communication

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Cracks in the Cuban Permafrost" (editorial, July 16) criticizes the Cuban Democracy Act, which I sponsored.
"From Whom the Cuban Bell Tolls" (editorial, July 28) praises the Clinton Administration's new telecommunications policy, which will make possible greatly increased communications with Cuba. 
 You fail to understand the larger strategy behind the Cuban Democracy Act and the telecommunications policy and the implications of both.
The policy is the result of the law. Administration guidelines state their purpose is the "implementation of the telecommunications provisions of the Cuban Democracy Act."
The strategy has been to tighten the economic embargo to increase pressure on the Castro regime while permitting a flood of information into Cuba from outside by liberalizing telecommunications, direct mail and travel. Your opposition to the Cuban Democracy Act demonstrates a lack of either consistency or understanding.
 
(Rep.) ROBERT G. TORRICELLI
Washington, Aug. 1, 1993
 
The writer heads the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993



372 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 15, 1993

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	This	Last	Weeks	 	Week	Week	On	 			List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	1	1	53	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $14.95.) A photographer and a lonely farmer's wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 	2		1	VANISHED, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $23.95.) The abduction of their young son creates a crisis for a New York man and woman and for the woman's first lover.	 	 	 	 	3	2	22	THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $23.50.) A deadly secret, revealed by a lawyer just before he kills himself, presents problems for an 11-year-old boy.	 	 	 	 	4	14	2	STREETS OF LAREDO, by Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A Texas bounty hunter goes south of the border in pursuit of a train robber and killer.	 	 	 	 	5	3	5	THE NIGHT MANAGER, by John le Carre. (Knopf, $24.) A Zurich hotelman's life in the world of arms dealers, dope smugglers and international terrorists.	 	 	 	 	6	4	18	LIKE WATER FOR CHOCOLATE, by Laura Esquivel. (Doubleday, $17.50.) Frustration, love, hope -- and recipes -- sampled by a woman on a Mexican ranch.	 	 	 	 	7	7	8	PIGS IN HEAVEN, by Barbara Kingsolver. (HarperCollins, $22.) The stresses and strains that befall a mother and her adopted Cherokee daughter.	 	 	 	 	8	5	5	HONOR AMONG THIEVES, by Jeffrey Archer. (HarperCollins, $23.) Saddam Hussein plots to steal and destroy the Declaration of Independence.	 	 	 	 	9	6	11	PLEADING GUILTY, by Scott Turow. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A lawyer in pursuit of his firm's missing partner and a multimillion-dollar fund.	 	 	 	 	10	8	8	CRUEL & UNUSUAL, by Patricia D. Cornwell. (Scribners, $21.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta investigates mysteries involving a man executed for murder.	 	 	 	 	11	12	6	HILL TOWNS, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $22.) Americans on a holiday in Italy learn a lot about their marriage and themselves.	 	 	 	 	12	13	3	A CASE OF NEED, by Michael Crichton writing as Jeffery Hudson. (Dutton, $18.95.) A 1968 novel about the mysterious death of a surgeon's daughter on an operating table.	 	 	 	 	13	9	5	AFTER ALL THESE YEARS, by Susan Isaacs. (HarperCollins, $23.) The plight of a woman whose estranged husband is found murdered in her house.	 	 	 	 	14	11	11	THE SCORPIO ILLUSION, by Robert Ludlum. (Bantam, $23.95.) A former naval officer tracks down a terrorist conspiracy headed by a vengeful woman.	 	 	 	 	15	10	3	SAVING GRACE, by Julie Garwood. (Pocket, $22.) The romantic problems of a 13th-century English widow.	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	This	Last	Weeks	 	Week	Week	On	 			List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	1	1	53	WOMEN WHO RUN WITH THE WOLVES, by Clarissa Pinkola Estes. (Ballantine, $23.) How myths and folk tales can enable women to understand their psyches.	 	 	 	 	2	6	10	REENGINEERING THE CORPORATION, by Michael Hammer and James Champy. (Harper Business, $25.) A manifesto for business innovation.	 	 	 	 	3	4	48	THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush H. Limbaugh 3d. (Pocket, $22.) Anecdotes and opinions offered by the talk-show host.	 	 	 	 	4	5	5	LISTENING TO PROZAC, by Peter D. Kramer. (Viking, $23.) A psychiatrist discusses mood-changing medications and their effects on a person's self.	 	 	 	 	5 *	7	14	EMBRACED BY THE LIGHT, by Betty J. Eadie with Curtis Taylor. (Gold Leaf Press, $14.95.) A woman's near-death experience.	 	 	 	 	6	2	9	THE FIFTIES, by David Halberstam. (Villard, $27.50.) A journalist's social, political, economic and cultural history of the 1950's.	 	 	 	 	7	3	8	DAYS OF GRACE, by Arthur Ashe and Arnold Rampersad. (Knopf, $24.) The memoirs of the late tennis star.	 	 	 	 	8	10	5	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Turtle Bay/Random House, $17.) A memoir of a young woman's mental illness.	 	 	 	 	9	8	35	CARE OF THE SOUL, by Thomas Moore. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) A psychotherapist's discussion of spirituality and everyday life.	 	 	 	 	10	9	10	MAMA MAKES UP HER MIND, by Bailey White. (Addison-Wesley, $17.95.) Life in a tiny Georgia town; by a first-grade teacher and radio commentator.	 	 	 	 	11	11	26	HEALING AND THE MIND, by Bill Moyers. (Doubleday, $25.) Conversations with physicians and others about the relationship of sickness to thoughts and emotions.	 	 	 	 	12	14	9	RACE MATTERS, by Cornel West. (Beacon, $15.) A Princeton professor assays issues affecting black Americans.	 	 	 	 	13 *	13	11	SECRET CEREMONIES, by Deborah Laake. (Morrow, $20.) The unhappy marriages of a woman raised as a Mormon.	 	 	 	 	14		1	THE LAST BROTHER, by Joe McGinniss. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A biography of Senator Edward M. Kennedy.	 	 	 	 	15	12	13	A WORLD WAITING TO BE BORN, by M. Scott Peck. (Bantam, $22.95.) A call for people to make civility part of their lives.	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	This	Last	Weeks	 	Week	Week	On	 			List	Advice, How-to, and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	1	1	3	AGELESS BODY, TIMELESS MIND, by Deepak Chopra. (Harmony, $22.) A physician's advice about aging.	 	 	 	 	2	3	13	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $20.) Ways to improve communication and relationships between the sexes.	 	 	 	 	3	2	7	EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS, by Dean Ornish. (HarperCollins, $22.50.) Counsel about diet.	 	 	 	 	4	4	16	A WOMAN'S WORTH, by Marianne Williamson. (Random House, $17.) Advice about beauty, age, relationships, sex, children and careers.	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending July 31, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
BAD SCIENCE: The Short Life and Weird Times of Cold Fusion, by Gary Taubes. (Random House, $25.) It seemed too good to be true and it was, showing that true scientists, properly motivated, can deceive themselves like anyone else.
CAST A SPELL, by Bette Pesetsky. (Harcourt Brace, $21.95.) A witty, observant novel (the author's fifth) that exposes the sad reality of the life of Miz Magic, a professional illusionist.
DENYING THE HOLOCAUST: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory, by Deborah E. Lipstadt. (Free Press, $22.95.) A historian untangles the perverse and ingenious arguments of those who say there was no Holocaust.
EXTREME CONDITIONS: Big Oil and the Transformation of Alaska, by John Strohmeyer. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A journalist's account, full of old-fashioned outrage, of the self-destruction of a nouveau riche state.
THE FORGOTTEN PLAGUE: How the Battle Against Tuberculosis Was Won -- and Lost, by Frank Ryan. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A sobering narration, with possible implications for AIDS, of the 70-plus years and the generations of scientists it took to cure tuberculosis (which is still around).
THE HIDDEN LIFE OF DOGS, by Elizabeth Marshall Thomas. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $18.95.) What do dogs want, feel, even think? A close, sympathetic observer's data make this a profoundly unsilly question.
IF YOU KNEW ME, by Anne Roiphe. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) The evocative language of this novel supports the improbably successful grasp at happiness of a newly met middle-aged couple.
THE LAST EMPIRE: De Beers, Diamonds, and the World, by Stefan Kanfer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A lively history of the world's most enduring cartel and its control of the diamond market, regardless of war, peace or revolution.
A MOMENT OF WAR: A Memoir of the Spanish Civil War, by Laurie Lee. (New Press, $17.95.) An English poet and memoirist's bleak, understated, metaphorical monument to his ragged brigade of international volunteers.
MONKFISH MOON, by Romesh Gunesekera. (New Press, $16.95.) Everyone feels afraid and guilty in this melancholy first collection of fiction from Sri Lanka, a rapidly imploding nation.
PHILIP LARKIN: A Writer's Life, by Andrew Motion. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Pre-eminently the modern poet of death, Larkin in this biography by a poet and friend is overtaken in life by the postures of his poetry.
THE REST OF LIFE: Three Novellas, by Mary Gordon. (Viking, $22.) Each of these cautionary tales concerns an alive, complex, contemporary woman, and each of the women is wounded by an obsessive, unequal relationship with a man.
THE SIXTIES: The Last Journal, 1960-1972, by Edmund Wilson. Edited by Lewis M. Dabney. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) The fifth and final volume recorded by the great, voracious man of letters, on whom nothing was lost.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); SMUGGLING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); MURDER (54%); TERRORISM (51%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



373 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2777 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: Universities as Landlords;
When the Landlord Is a University

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY has some 335 surplus acres fully permitted for development and zoned for light industrial use near its campus in New Brunswick, N.J.
But as hungry as it is for a developer, particularly in this down market, Rutgers won't even talk to people who want to put up manufacturing facilities.
"We see developing our surplus land as building our own neighborhood, and manufacturing is not what we have in mind," said Mark Rozewski, the university's director of physical and capital planning. 
 Chicago's DePaul University, desperate for more classroom and administrative office space, recently bought the old Goldblatt Department Store in downtown Chicago.
Last month the university announced that it was turning the building's 60,000 net rentable square feet of retail space into the Chicago Music Mart, a cluster of stores that sell sheet music, antique instruments and other music-related merchandise.
"We could have gotten much higher rents from shoe stores or discounters," said Kenneth A. McHugh, DePaul's executive vice president for operations. "But we have an outstanding school of music and we wanted retail uses that fit the university."
People rarely think of them as such, but universities are major factors in the real estate market. According to the National Association of College and University Business Officers, about 4.3 percent of university endowments are invested in real estate. And often those numbers do not include the universities' vast holdings on and around their campuses, much of which they have leased out for private use.
YET the widespread gloom that has hung over every aspect of the real estate industry in recent years is conspicuously absent from the campus. As nonprofits, universities have few tax problems to worry about. Rarely have they gone into debt to buy their holdings, which means that rarely do they have to unload land or buildings at rock-bottom prices to bolster cash flow.
But perhaps most important of all, universities look for far different things from their real estate holdings than do almost any other investors or developers.
Indeed, real estate viewed through academic eyes looks a lot different than it does through those of developers.
When developers build buildings or centers, they generally want to get their money out and move onto the next project. Universities worry about image, about town/gown relations, about the impact of land use on the university's character a century from now.
They do buy land for income purposes. But far more often they do so for nonfinancial reasons. In some cases, they are buying land or buildings to accommodate new programs or to house faculty and students. In others, they are trying to create a buffer zone between their campuses and any commercial or industrial development. And in still others they are trying to preserve the character of the surrounding community so their campus remains attractive to future students and faculty members.
"You never want to soil your own nest," said Robert J. Wolfe, president of Picus Associates, which manages Princeton University's local real estate.
THAT attitude is manifest throughout academia. It has put universities into projects that developers might never touch -- or kept them out of ones that might make developers salivate. The developments they do get involved with look very different from the way they would if a land speculator put them up.
Take Princeton Forrestal Center, which developers built on part of a 1,700-acre chunk of land that Princeton University owns in Plainsboro. The center includes a shopping center as well as many corporate headquarters and office buildings.
More significant is what it does not include: No strip shopping centers abutting Route 1, even though those are often the most lucrative way to develop such land. And no development at all on the 500 acres separating the campus from the center. "We definitely wanted a buffer zone," said Mr. Wolfe.
Buffers are not just esthetically pleasing; they also represent reserves of land that the university can use far into the future. In fact, few universities will sell the land they hold. If they wish to develop it, they insist on long-term ground leases so that when the leases expire they have the option to reclaim the land for their own expansion.
Universities without a lot of land often find it takes a great deal of ingenuity to expand. Over the last decade Columbia University, now squeezed onto 36 acres on Morningside Heights, has built a rare-book library on top of Butler Library and a computer-center below Sherman Fairchild Center. Next month it will dedicate the Morris A. Schapiro Center for Engineering and Physical Science Research, which is shoehorned behind the business school on 121st Street between two other science buildings. A few years ago it tried to build a gym in nearby Morningside Park but abandoned the plan when local residents protested.
Still, while few universities want commercial developments sitting on top of the student union, most want them comfortably nearby. The hope is that corporate tenants will hire graduates, use faculty members as consultants and otherwise cooperate with the university's research. In fact, that latter goal is so prominent that many schools try to woo tenants to research parks with fact sheets touting the university's research breakthroughs, faculty and expenditures.
PENN STATE UNIVERSITY is currently developing a 130-acre, 1.5-million-square-foot research park in State College, Pa., less than a mile from the campus, that will include a hotel, conference center, laboratory and mixed-use office building, and the possibility of four more buildings in the future. The park, being developed by the Morlok Vernon Group, is scheduled to open in mid-1994. The whole first half of the park's four-color brochure dwells on the university's research acumen; facts about the park itself, access to transportation and such, are left to the end.
That approach is not always successful, though. The 40-year-old Cornell Business & Technology Park, less than five miles from Cornell University's Ithaca, N.Y., campus, languished for years, in good part because the university wanted only tenants who would be involved in Cornell research.
In the late 80's Cornell removed that restriction and the park now has 15 buildings with companies that employ about 1,000 people. A local hospital is building a center at the park, and a local developer has leased some of its land to build corporate structures.
"About half our tenants are local companies who don't care that Cornell owns the land, and a lot of them are companies that were directly spun off from Cornell research," said John Majeroni, Cornell's director of real estate. "We're still not having a lot of success attracting people from outside the area who want to interact with Cornell."
Some progress has been made, though: the Cornell park has landed a small British company that makes components for supercomputers and the Food Network, which does the recipe research for SlimFast.
Rutgers has had better luck wooing tenants with the carrot of its resources. It got the New Jersey State Bar Association to build its headquarters on five acres of Rutgers-owned land, in part by guaranteeing access to the university's law libraries. And the HIP/Rutgers Health Plan, a health management organization, is building a 60,000-square-foot headquarters on Rutgers land in New Brunswick. One reason is that a large part of its clientele will be faculty members and staff of 8,000 people.
But just as universities use their academic resources to woo tenants, they also use their land resources to woo community favor. Nearly all the schools let community groups use their meeting facilities for cost. Some let them use athletic facilities as well. And nearly all make sure the communities sign off on projects before they build them.
Princeton, for example, sold Palmer Square, a downtown mixed-use development, when it "became clear that the town and the university would never agree on anything that made economic sense," said Mr. Wolfe. And seven years ago Princeton bought 500 acres abutting Forrestal Center from Princeton Nurseries, intending to develop it for housing and office use. It abandoned the plan when local residents complained that it was too dense.
"A regular developer would have felt compelled to move over the objection of the community or at least to try to work out a compromise," said Mr. Wolfe. The university will again look at plans to develop the land when the real estate market turns up.
New York University, which owns about 3.5 million square feet in and around Greenwich Village, has been regularly turning away offers to buy buildings nearby, even though it could eventually use them. It did recently buy the Fairchild building, at 7 East 12th Street, to use for administrative offices, and the Carlyle Court Apartments, at 21 East 15th Street, to use as dormitories. But it has little else on its acquisition agenda.
"We are very careful not to give the impression of buying up the neighborhood," said Robert Goldfeld, vice president for administration. "We want to be thought of as good citizens."
ARGUABLY, the City University of New York holds the trophy for sensitivity to town/gown relationships -- probably because, as an amalgam of some 21 state and city-sponsored schools, its real estate decisions are approved and financed by governmental agencies.
CUNY bought an industrial building in the East 20's to house a new computer center and library for Baruch College. Donal E. Farley, who just retired as senior vice chancellor for facilities and planning, recalls that the building had been chosen in good part because it was least disruptive to the neighborhood, and that the State Dormitory Authority, which financed the building, hired a relocation consultant to help the dozen or so tenants in the building find new offices.
"The public sector in general pays more attention to keeping relocation pain to a minimum than a bottom-line-oriented commercial firm," Mr. Farley said.
Public ownership has worked to CUNY's benefit: The state transferred its shuttered Willowbrook Developmental Center for severely retarded children to the university, which has extensively renovated and expanded the site. It will soon open as a new 200-acre campus for the College at Staten Island. The college will be closing its St. George campus in September and its Sunnyside campus in late 1994.
With the recession still hanging on, good town/gown relations have hinged as much on promoting development as on curbing it.
Harvard recently gave Cambridge a chunk of land to use for low-income housing. Columbia sought -- and found -- a record store, cafe, bakery and casual clothing store to occupy retail space in some of the 166 apartment buildings it owns in the Morningside Heights neighborhood, after neighborhood residents said these were the services they needed. Cornell sank some $600,000 into landscaping at East Hill Plaza, a shopping center it owns near the Ithaca campus, also at the request of local residents.
"I'm sure we did a lot more than a local developer would, because we're conscious that everyone knows that Cornell owns the place," said Mr. Majeroni.
The New Brunswick Housing Authority is buiding a 672-student dormitory next to the New Brunswick train station, on Rutgers's agreement to lease it for 30 years. And the university is breaking ground this month on a $42 million, 165,000-square-foot state-financed Civic Square Development in downtown New Brunswick that will house Rutgers's Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, its Center for Urban Policy Research and its Mason Gross School of the Arts.
"If we move these bodies, with their purchasing power, into the core of the city, we will be preserving the economic viability of the neighborhood," said Mr. Rozewski.
That has been a primary goal in Yale University's real estate strategies. In 1987 Yale dedicated $50 million of its endowment money to the New Haven Initiative, a plan to promote economic development in New Haven. "The future of Yale University and the future of the city of New Haven are inextricably joined," Benno C. Schmidt Jr., then Yale's president, said at the time.
Already the university has invested $12.5 million in the Ninth Square project, a mixed-use development downtown. It has also put smaller sums, either as outright investments or as interest-bearing loans, into low- and moderate-income housing projects and retail renovations. And, it recently lent another $1.7 million to the Science Park Development Corporation, which runs Science Park, an "incubator center" for fledgling businesses built several years ago on land donated by the Olin Corporation, and in which Yale already is a major investor.
Of course, the criteria are a lot different for real estate that universities buy for investment purposes, either near their campuses or thousands of miles away. In those cases, they do so for the same reason as private investors: profit, pure and simple.
But universities differ widely in their views of real estate as an investment.
New York University, for one, refuses to touch it. "Why should we invest in an entrepreneurial, difficult business where people can lose lots of money?" asked Mr. Goldfeld.
OTHER institutions answer, because there are irresistible bargains to be had. Harvard and Princeton are buying aggressively. And Cornell, which hasn't invested in real estate for four years, is ready to go back into the market. As of the end of May only about $32.8 millon of Cornell's $1.2 billion endowment was invested in real estate, but James S. Clarke, Cornell's associate treasurer for investments, expects that number to go up pretty soon.
"We won't bet the farm on real estate, but its attraction relative to other investments has shifted considerably," he said.
If a pattern on attitude towards real estate does exist, it is based on size of endowments. "Institutions that have the most assets to invest are the ones that have tended to diversify into real estate," said an executive at Cambridge Associates, a Boston-based financial consulting firm that collects data for the college business administrator's association.
Indeed, Harvard, whose endowment of $5.2 billion is the highest in the country, tries to keep 7 percent of its money in real estate. As of June 1992, the last time it reported figures, that percentage was down to 4.8. But the drop reflected the lowered value of Harvard's holdings, not any large-scale sell-off. In fact, the university owns 17 investment properties around the country and is looking for more.
"We've been taking advantage of market opportunities," said Robert Scott, Harvard's vice president for finance.
SO has Princeton. The university, which had virtually no money invested in real estate through the 1980's, has over the last 18 months bought majority interests in two office buildings in Washington, several apartment complexes in the Southwest and an office building in Tampa. Now, roughly 3 percent of its $3.3 billion endowment is in the real estate market, and Randall A. Hack, president of the Princeton University Investment Company, says the target percentage is higher than that.
"This is a cyclical buying opportunity that has not been seen for decades," he said.
Universities are likely to keep adding to their real estate holdings, as much at the urging of outsiders as at their own desire.
Companies and individuals are donating more real estate to colleges, taking tax writeoffs for troubled buildings. A notable recent example was the General Electric Company's gift to Columbia University of 570 Lexington Avenue, a 50-story, 428,000-square-foot building on 51st Street valued at $40 million. G.E., which will continue to occupy a third of the building and pay Columbia rent, gets a tax deduction and a painless way to get rid of a building that is two-thirds vacant. Columbia gets a free building, which it will probably use to expand such programs as business, journalism and international affairs.
Developers, meanwhile, are looking to cash-rich universities as partners in developments, now that few banks will make construction loans. Brokers, too, are storming the campus, looking for sales.
"There's hardly a broker around that doesn't call me at least once a week," said DePaul's Mr. McHugh, who says that DePaul has bought close to $7 million in real estate in the last couple of years -- at prices 25 percent below what they would have been in a heyday market.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Rozewski, Rutgers director of physical and capital planning, on some of the university's vacant land. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. 13); Kenneth A. McHugh, a DePaul official, at a department store bought by the Chicago institution. (Stave Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CONSUMER AGENCY ADMINISTRATORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES INC (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (91%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY BUSINESS OFFICERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CONSUMER AGENCY ADMINISTRATORS RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (91%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY BUSINESS OFFICERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); TAX CONSULTING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RETAILERS (74%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT & SUPPLY STORES (74%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); FOOTWEAR (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); SHOE STORES (69%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



374 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 9; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Volvo Tennis Tournament Returns

BYLINE: By JACK CAVANAUGH

 BODY:
WHEN the Volvo International tennis tournament moved from Stratton Mountain, Vt., to New Haven three years ago, the consensus among business and civic leaders was that it would give a big boost to a city scarred by a soaring homicide rate, high unemployment and other problems.
Matthew Nemerson, the president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce, was one of many who predicted that the tournament would generate substantial revenues and tourist development for the city. 
 But that has not happened. The Volvo's first three years in New Haven have been marred by setbacks like the elimination of many top players in the early rounds, bad weather and a cracked stadium court that resulted in the postponement of three sessions last year.
The cracked surface touched off acrimonious exchanges between New Haven's Mayor, John C. Daniels, and John DeStefano Jr., a political rival of the Mayor who is executive director of the Tennis Foundation of Connecticut Inc., the nonprofit organization that operates the stadium.
Still, the tournament has drawn well, with attendance increasing each year, and has consistently offered a strong field of players.
Among the 56 in the singles field when the Volvo opens at the Connecticut Tennis Center tomorrow will be the defending champion, Stefan Edberg of Sweden; Andre Agassi, the 1992 Wimbledon champion; MaliVai Washington, who lost to Mr. Edberg in last year's final, and Ivan Lendl and Mats Wilander, both Greenwich residents and former United States Open champions.
 
Two Semifinal Sessions
 Afternoon and evening sessions will be held inside the 15,000-seat stadium, off Derby Avenue (Route 34) near the Yale Bowl, and on five outside courts, all of which are asphalt based, from Monday through Saturday. (This year, for the first time, the semifinals will be held in two separate sessions on Saturday, at 11 A.M. and 6 P.M., thus guaranteeing more ticket sales). The final will be played at 1 P.M. on Sunday.
In addition to the singles event, there will be a Legends tournament that will include stars like Rod Laver, Ken Rosewall and Ilie Nastase. Ticket prices, which increase as the tournament goes on, range from $10 early in the week to $54 for box seats next Sunday.
"This has to be a big year for us," Jim Westhall, the promoter, said. "I don't think we'll have the problems we did last year, but if we do, it will be the last bite of the apple."
Mr. Westhall, whose New Haven-based company, Jewell Productions Inc., organizes and promotes the $1 million event, moved the tournament to New Haven after having previously moved it from Bretton Woods to North Conway, both in New Hampshire, and then to Stratton Mountain in Vermont.
Mr. Westhall, who has been associated with the tournament since 1971, said in an interview he was not suggesting the tournament was in jeopardy. "It doesn't mean we're going to leave," he said. "I doubt if Volvo is going to drop out, even though they've been cutting back on other sports. We're in the process of talking renewal for next year."
Volvo officials have said that, in light of the current economic climate, they can only contract for the tournament year by year.
 
Tax Revenues Fall Short
 If Volvo were to drop its sponsorship, or if the tournament moved to another location, New Haven would be left with a stadium that has little potential for any other use. When it was built in 1991 at a cost of $15 million -- paid for by state bonds -- the expectation was that it would be the site of concerts and other events. But only one concert and two satellite tennis tournaments have been held there.
The satellite tennis tournament, which was sponsored by the Pilot Pen Company and which preceded the Volvo in 1991 and 1992, was not held this summer because of poor attendance and most likely will not be staged in the stadium again. Thus the stadium has not been used since last year's Volvo and has in effect been in use only four weeks over the last two years.
Originally, those eager to bring the Volvo to New Haven estimated that tax revenues from the tournament and other events held at the Connecticut Tennis Center could produce as much as $500,000 a year for the city. In fact, the city has received far less -- only $90,000 last year, for example. Both Mr. Westhall and Mayor Daniels said they were disappointed that the stadium had essentially sat idle.
"I realize that the economy has not been conducive to concerts, and we certainly would like to put them on," Mr. Westhall said. "That's one of the reasons we came down here."
Mr. Daniels said: "The stadium itself has not been fully utilized, partly due to a sluggish economy and a slowdown in the concert tour business. We have high hopes for the future, though, and we'e talking about scheduling special events and entertainment packages with Governor Weicker and Tennis Foundation officials."
Under an agreement with residents of nearby Westville, a quiet residential section of New Haven, the foundation has agreed to limit concerts to no more than 10 a year. But Mr. DeStefano said that, at best, only about a half-dozen could be staged in any given year. So far, though, only one has been held since the stadium was built.
Mr. DeStefano, who lost out to Mr. Daniels in a Democratic primary four years ago, is the party's nominee for Mayor this year (Mr. Daniels, now serving his second term, is not seeking re-election).
 
'A Fabulous Thing'
 Mr. DeStefano and Mr. Westhall have both tried, unsuccessfuly so far, to book a women's tennis tournament at the tennis center, and the promoter held out hope of obtaining, besides concerts, "an occasional Davis Cup match," the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament and some volleyball events.
But so far none of that has materialized, and some fear that, should the Volvo tournament fold, the Connecticut Tennis Center would become a white elephant that would have to be paid for by state taxpayers. That might not sit well, particularly in New Haven, one of the nation's poorest cities.
When the stadium was proposed, officials of the Tennis Foundation and the state said that tax revenues generated from the tournament would pay the debt service on the 20-year state bonds, which will total about $33 million in principal and interest. At the same time, the New Haven Downtown Council estimated that the Volvo event would produce more than $53 million for the state during the life of the bonds.
So far, the tournament has hardly been profitable for anyone. "We lost a lot the first year and then made a few bucks the last two years," said Mr. Westhall, whose offices overlook Long Island Sound but who still lives in New Hampshire, commuting there on most weekends. "If we're not careful, we could lose a substantial amount this year."
If the Volvo has fallen short of expectations as a revenue producer, it has been beneficial in other ways, Mr. Nemerson of the Chamber of Commerce said.
"It's been a fabulous thing for the city," he said. "It results in a magic week for the city. And it's great for the city because of the national media exposure. It gets everybody excited, and everyone is on their best behavior."
Others are far less sanguine. As Mayor Daniels concedes, few residents of New Haven pay any attention to the tennis tournament. However, a sizable number have turned out for a free street festival, sponsored by a beer company, that is held on a four-block-long stretch of Chapel Street in downtown New Haven each day of the tournament.
Downtown businesses expressed chagrin at the Volvo's scant impact on the city. "We were told that the tennis tournament would bring us more business, but it hasn't," said Evelyn Schatz, the president of the Chapel West Special Service District, which includes 138 downtown property owners. "The restaurants and other businesses are disappointed. And the tournament hasn't done anything for the hotels, except for the one where the players and officials stay. The people go to the tennis, and then they go home. And the people who come to the festival don't go to the tennis."
"Maybe a handful of the tennis fans comes downtown," said Mrs. Schatz, who is also president of the 25-member Restaurant Association. "Everyone expected it would help business, but it really hasn't. It's been disappointing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNK (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: VOLVO INTERNATIONAL TENNIS TOURNAMENT TD BANK US HOLDING CO (69%); GREATER NEW HAVEN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO INTERNATIONAL TENNIS TOURNAMENT GREATER NEW HAVEN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS TENNIS (95%); SPORTS (95%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CRIME RATES (72%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (57%); TOURISM (56%); 

PERSON: CAVANAUGH, JACK ANDRE AGASSI (55%); MATS WILANDER (54%); IVAN LENDL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



375 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3132 words

HEADLINE: The New Millionaires: Making It In Tough Times

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
THEIR megabucks didn't come from Publishers Clearinghouse, a state lottery payoff or a reclusive relative's will, and they haven't been on "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" -- not yet, anyway. But despite the recession and its still-uncertain aftermath there are a lot of new millionaires out there.
Just how many is unclear. PSI, a financial services research firm in Tampa, Fla., says there are now about 3.7 million households in the United States with a net worth of $1 million or more, an increase of 900,000 since 1989. Relying on income-producing assets as its yardstick, the Claritas Corporation, a market research firm in Alexandria, Va., puts the number at 1.04 million, a gain of more than 50,000 in the same period. 
 How could the ranks of the rich keep rising in such seemingly bad times? In some cases, corporate upheavals helped push middle-managers into the millionaire category; delayering and restructuring left them with severance packages that could be used to bankroll entrepreneurial ventures. Often, it was just a case of the well off getting better off: many had $800,000 or $900,000 by the late 1980's. Still others made their millions on the basis of the age-old combination of talent, timing and luck.
Several of those factors were at play in the case of five new millionaires in the New York area. Mary Rodas, for example, found that she had a Midas touch marketing toys. But four also made their fortunes, in part, precisely because times were bad.
* Napoleon Barragan profited from bargain-price merchandising with his Dial-a-Mattress business.
* Harriet Newman Cohen, a divorce lawyer, saw her practice boom as the recession's pressures and problems tore more marriages apart.
* Steve Davies, owner of a computer repair company, caught a cost-conscious wave among corporate clients eager to put off the purchase of new equipment.
* Barbara Corcoran turned unwanted co-ops and condominiums into a gold mine by mass marketing at the right price.
Together, the stories of these five say a lot about the troubled economy and how people managed to prosper in it. Some did it just by barging ahead, not giving a second thought to the sagging business environment. Others had to overcome cash crises, heavy borrowing and the nail-biting, nerve-straining fear that they could just as easily end up in bankruptcy court as on Millionaire's Row.
 
Mr. Dial-a-Mattress
 Napoleon Barragan knew he had made it when a call came in shortly before Bill Clinton was inaugurated. The caller gave the name of a guard at a White House gate. A discount mattress for the Lincoln bedroom? Mr. Barragan did not think twice. "We sent a special truck," he said. "We really wanted to impress the President."
It was one of the few sales that Mr. Barragan's Dial-a-Mattress company did not ring up -- the order turned out to be a hoax. Even so, it showed how far Mr. Barragan has come in the 24 years since he arrived in New York from Ecuador and took a factory job in Queens. His wife became an Avon lady. By 1978, they had saved enough to open a furniture store when he saw a newspaper advertisement for "Dial-a-Steak."
"I didn't call," he says, but he did copy the idea. With two telephone lines, he ran a classified ad for a $59 mattress that could be delivered quickly.
The business has taken off in the last five years as commercials on everything from Howard Stern's shock-jock radio program to late-night television movies have spread the message to recession-shocked bargain hunters. Having honed its low-overhead techniques, the company was ready to cash in on high volumes in hard times.
Now, Dial-a-Mattress has 185 employees and annual sales of $30 million. And Mr. Barragan, who is 52, is a millionaire.
On a typical day, each of the company's 48 "bedding consultants" handles about 30 calls and averages 10 sales at $400 each. "In each 5-by-5 cubicle" where a consultant sits with a telephone and a computer, "we do more business than the traditional showroom," Mr. Barragan says. And faster. The average Dial-a-Mattress sale closes in 7 to 10 minutes. In a store, it takes 25. "The amazing thing is, we are able to communicate better on the phone," he said.
One reason is that Mr. Barragan has figured out how to sidestep customers' excuses. Have to talk to your wife or husband? Dial-a-Mattress has three-way calling.
Which brings up the company's phone number, the thing that taught Mr. Barragan, who had been a private-school teacher in Ecuador, that Americans have trouble spelling relatively simple words like mattress. When customers complained that they were getting a wrong number, Mr. Barragan had the bedding consultants ask what number they had dialed. It turned out that they had been leaving off the second T, not the last S as his commercials implore them to; they had been dialing MATRESS. Realizing that 10 percent of his customers weren't even reaching him, Mr. Barragan promptly got the one-T number.
Now, whether via his one-T or two-T 800 numbers, Dial-a-Mattress is selling 10 times what it was selling five years ago and in more markets: Philadelphia, Washington, Miami and Los Angeles as well as New York. "It's just a matter of advertising," Mr. Barragan said.
 
Mary Rodas: An Early Entrant
 The financial pages of the newspaper are spread out on her desk in Manhattan's Flatiron District. Mary Rodas is checking on how her stocks have been doing.
"I picked Disney because I grew up with it," she says, running a finger down the stock tables. "I picked General Electric because I remember the light bulbs Dad put in the lamps in the building where he was the superintendent. Hershey? Every time I'm in a drug store, I grab a Hershey bar. Once I was having some Luden's and I turned the box over. That's how I found out it's a Hershey company, too, so Hershey does great in winter -- all those cough drops."
Mary Rodas is 17 years old.
There are those who say the way to a million dollars is connections, connections, connections: on the golf course, on the dinner-party circuit, in the board room. Ms. Rodas made her connection when she wandered into a neighbor's kitchen when she was just 4. The neighbor was putting tile on the floor, and, she said, "I criticized his work."
The neighbor was Donald Spector, an inventor who holds more than 300 patents for everything from aromatic record players to swimsuits that change color to sculpture made of popcorn. Before long, Mr. Spector was turning to Ms. Rodas for advice about his inventions, particularly when it came to toys -- and her marketing instincts proved to be the missing ingredient needed to turn his flights of fancy into bankable products.
It has been a profitable partnership for both of them. Now Mr. Spector's toy company, Catco Inc., has sales of $70 million a year, he said. And Ms. Rodas owns 5 percent of the business, where she serves as vice president for marketing while still going to high school.
The teen-age tycoon started out humbly enough. "In third grade, I took one of his inventions to school," she said. "Nobody in my class liked it. Then I took it to the fifth grade. They loved it. In marketing terms, that's called demographics. I didn't know that. I just did it."
Five years ago, Mr. Spector invented a plain white sack with a balloon inside, a kind of lightweight bean bag that can be tossed across a room or playground. "He goes, 'What should we do?' I said, 'Bright colors.' He put on solids. I said, 'No, bright colors.' He put neon colors. I said, 'No, something Hawaiian.' " The result was Balzac, which quickly became one of the best-selling toys at F.A.O. Schwarz. (The name? "It's a balloon in a sack," Ms. Rodas said.)
Even though Ms. Rodas is older now, her research methods haven't changed much -- now she uses her private school as her marketing crucible. "A lot of toy companies use kids in a room with one-way mirrors," she said. "With me, I'm in school. My little fourth- and fifth-graders, they say, 'Mary, this is cool.' They'll tell me straight out. They're not intimidated by me."
Along the way, Ms. Rodas became a millionaire. The trappings were one indication: she rode around in a limousine. ("I needed a limo because I was too young for a driver's license.")
Mr. Spector said her money goes into a stock portfolio and a savings account. He didn't disclose the amount of her salary but did say that Catco has also set aside money for her college expenses and is paying her private-school tuition, about $12,000 a year. Ms. Rodas lives with her father and stepmother in New Jersey; her mother died four years ago.
This millionaire has definite ideas about how to spend her money. "When I was 14, I said, 'Pops, I'm going to pay for my own college.' " Where? "Harvard. Yale. At least I don't have to worry am I going to get a scholarship." But as she recently discovered, being rich won't guarantee a high score on the Scholastic Aptitude Test, which she took a few months ago in her junior year. "The math part was easy," she said. "The English part was hard."
 
Harriet Newman Cohen: Serving Those in Distress
 Maybe Arnie Becker, the sleazy, can't-keep-from-getting-involved-with-the-clients divorce lawyer on "L.A. Law," was a millionaire from the beginning. Harriet Newman Cohen was not. Her real-life practice on the opposite coast began with a case that paid nothing: her own divorce.
Eighteen years later, Ms. Cohen is a senior partner at Beigel & Sandler in Manhattan, billing $400 an hour and charging $15,000 for a typical case (she calls it a "negotiation"). But even with high billings -- and high-visibility clients like the actress Linda Lavin -- it took the recession to make her a millionaire.
"Suddenly, this was a growth industry," she said. "The economy got bad, which meant the divorce business was good. Women came to me because I was identified as a feminist. Men came to me because they knew that a woman has instant credibility when we go into court." What her clients got was someone they could call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, a kind of professional best friend as well as a lawyer. "I sort of became a full service to people in distress in extremis," she said.
She added T.L.C. to her legal arsenal because she remembered the fear she felt during her own divorce. She had gone to law school when her four daughters were in their teens and her marriage was sputtering. "I realized I was really awfully good at this specialty," she said. But she was frightened, too, about the future -- "about whether I would have the kind of relationship where I would have a best friend, a husband, a lover. I said, 'I have so much baggage.' " (Eventually, she married again; her husband, a hospital administrator, has a daughter and a son from his previous marriage.)
And what about the cliche that only a fool would have herself as a client? "Well, the law at that time was not as complex as it is today," she said. "Today, nobody should represent himself."
Coming from Arnie Becker, that could sound self-serving. But Ms. Cohen, 60, does not seem to be in practice for money alone. "Matrimonial lawyers generally feel they are undercompensated compared to other lawyers," she said. "Well, they get plenty. It shouldn't cost more for a lawyer than the settlement, but too often, it does."
 
Steve Davies: Taking the Plunge
 Before Steve Davies, 42, got where he is today, "I got bored." He had been a fast-track executive with Barclay's Bank for 12 years, but was tired of handling low-risk loans and dealing with the bank's old-fashioned hierarchy. When a customer offered him a job running a computer supply company in 1986, he jumped. A few months later, sales floundered and Mr. Davies bought the company's maintenance subsidiary.
"I was scared," he said. "I felt like I had bitten off more than I could chew. And I didn't do much due diligence."
On his first day as an owner, he had 10 customers and an idea: that a relatively small, independent company could provide repair services for mainframes and other computers at lower prices than manufacturers like I.B.M. and Digital Equipment. Now U.S. Computer Maintenance Inc. has 750 customers and revenue of $7 million a year. "It's like health care for computers," Mr. Davies said, "but you don't pay the deductible."
But by 1989, it was the company, not the customers' computers, that needed intensive care. A cash-flow crisis forced Mr. Davies to mortgage his house for $60,000, then sell it and pour in another $50,000 before sales of maintenance contracts (average annual cost: $7,000) picked up.
"The recession has been a wonderful thing for us," he said. "Everyone became much more conscious of the need to cut costs and leery of capital investments. They don't buy new machines and they need service on the machines they have."
Customers who visit Mr. Davies's warehouse-style headquarters in Farmingdale, L.I., find a roomful of backup computers to use if their machines go on the blink. Or, he said, "If they've got a 6200 and want to see the difference in a 6410, they can come and run benchmark tests." What is the difference between those two Digital Equipment computers? "I don't know," Mr. Davies said. "The secret is hiring people who are better than you are. Being nontechnical is an asset. I can't possibly fix this. The day you see me come in with a tool box is the day you should cancel."
In Mr. Davies's parking space is the one sign that he has crossed the million-dollar threshold, a Mercedes 500 convertible. Having a Mercedes was a lifelong dream, he said; the Mercedes replaced a Cadillac Allante, which replaced a Mitsubishi Gallant.
He and his wife spent a week at a Club Med earlier in the year -- their first vacation since 1989 -- and he wants a bigger house. "But," he says, "I can't afford it yet."
 
Barbara Corcoran: A Room With a View
 Barbara Corcoran's office has one of those million-dollar, only-in-New-York views. Yes, that is the Plaza Hotel down there. But it took Ms. Corcoran's real-estate brokerage business five years to bounce back after the market slumped and make her a millionaire.
Things were dicey almost from the moment she moved in, less than a week after the stock market crash of 1987. She had spent most of a $350,000 loan from Citibank on remodeling and furnishing the office. Customers simply stopped calling; sales evaporated, and some employees' paychecks plummeted 75 percent for lack of commissions. "By the end of '88, we were buying time with bill collectors, romancing the ad agency, the paper supplier," she said. "We became specialists at prolonging our debt."
Ms. Corcoran, now 44, borrowed more, mortgaging her weekend house in Pawling, N.Y., for $300,000. She sold her one-bedroom co-op on Gramercy Park for a $100,000 profit, moved into a rental and put that money into the business, too. "Within three months, all that money was gone," she said. "It was shocking to me how your own net worth could disappear so quickly."
She started teaching sales courses at New York University and Marymount Manhattan College "for pocket money." (Her classes turned out to be good places to recruit brokers.) Back at the office, she cut everything she could to stay afloat. One salesperson offered to work for nothing. Another offered Ms. Corcoran her $180,000 retirement fund. Ms. Corcoran says she turned down both.
The big break came in 1990: she was asked by the Mendik Organization, the Chase Manhattan Bank and the Equitable Life Assurance Society to sell "the dregs of the earth -- small, grossly overpriced apartments" in a handful of apartment complexes they owned in Manhattan.
"My immediate reaction was, forget it," she said.
But she held her tongue and figured out how to avoid the time-consuming open houses and endless haggling over prices that make brokers wary of selling low-end apartments. She proposed a one-price-for-all sale: $175,000 buys any apartment in the portfolio, with floor plans and other particulars spread out in one sales location. Still, with no money for advertising, she worried about getting the word out to buyers. She tried psychology, hinting at big bargains. "I told my salespeople, 'Only tell your closest friends.' I had practiced in the mirror, I had to come across a certain way. 'Better off coming early.' "
The strategy worked. Sale day was "like a California gold rush," she said, with customers lined up an hour before the doors opened. She sold 81 apartments that day, and another 109 in batches over the next four months.
The sales netted the firm, the Corcoran Group, more than $1 million in commissions, which erased the debt problems. By then, the co-op and condo market was picking up again, and by the beginning of 1993, Ms. Corcoran's net worth had crossed the $1 million mark.
"A millionaire sounds like Easy Street," she said. But she insists that is not where she lives, even though she did buy an apartment and renovate it -- total cost, about $400,000. And that view of the Plaza? "I never see it," she declared. "I'm so busy."
 
 
 
GETTING READY FOR THE NEW TAXES

They don't expect to be squeezed out of the seven-figure category, but some of the new millionaires are already huddling with their accountants and worrying about the higher tax rates in President Clinton's newly enacted economic plan.
Barbara Corcoran, the real estate broker, has already heard her accountant's litany about the higher marginal tax rates, the special surcharge for the wealthy and the continued phaseout of deductions and exemptions "I didn't ask him to be specific about." The well-to-do will now find the top tax brackets are in the neighborhood of 40 percent. Ms. Corcoran figures her disposable income will drop 10 percent.
"What will be, will be," she said. "I'm also expecting a larger accounting bill." Not to mention a new deduction: She is pregnant. But her main concern is that she will have less to reinvest in her business.
By contrast Harriet Newman Cohen, the divorce lawyer, and Napoleon Barragan, the discount mattress retailer, seem unfazed by the prospect of paying more to the I.R.S.
"This is a wonderful country and I couldn't have had success like this anywhere else," Ms. Cohen said, "so it's O.K. with me. I know it's going to be a big bite, but I have to pay back for the opportunity."
Mr. Barragan said President Clinton had "no other way to go" than to push for higher taxes on the rich.
Mary Rodas, the 17-year-old toy marketer, took issue with that, echoing Ms. Corcoran's concerns. "He doesn't understand the concept that the money that goes for the extra taxes could be used to expand the company," she said of the President.
But she has another beef. "I can't vote," she said. "That's taxation without representation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Napoleon Barragan: retailing; Barbara Corcoran: real estate; Steve Davies: computer services; Mary Rodas: marketing; Harriet Newman Cohen: divorce law (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Three for the money, from left: Mary Rodas with some of her toy company's products. Harriet Newman Cohen in her law office. Napoleon Barragan with the mattresses that can be fetched by phone; Barbara Corcoran got her big break in 1990, selling 190 apartments in Manhattan that were "the dregs of the earth."; Steve Davies made his money selling companies a "health plan" to service their computers. For him, the recession was "wonderful." (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (67%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (67%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (67%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (67%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;PSI INC 1800MATTRESS.COM (67%); SLEEPY'S INC (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;PSI INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION WEALTHY PEOPLE (95%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LOTTERIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); MATTRESSES (68%); SEVERANCE PAY (67%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%); COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: BARRAGAN, NAPOLEON; CORCORAN, BARBARA; DAVIES, STEVE; RODAS, MARY; COHEN, HARRIET NEWMAN; BARRON, JAMES BILL CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



376 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Hog Heaven: High Rates In Hot Nations

BYLINE: By Saul Hansell

 BODY:
The world is not a friendly place for cash these days. As recession rolls from the United States to Japan to Europe, there is less demand for money and interest rates keep falling. For a while, those that looked after money market mutual funds and other short-term investments looked to Europe because many countries there were forced to keep rates high in order to keep their currencies on a par with the German mark. But after the decision two weeks ago to let European currencies float freely, rates will fall.
And so investors are increasingly tempted to send their money far off the beaten path. They are being lured by offers of rates from 7 percent in Thailand to 9 percent in Argentina, 10 percent in Indonesia and 14 percent just over the border in Mexico. 
 "The bond market is full of yield hogs, people who will throw their money at the highest-yielding currency," said James Clair, a senior corporate bond trader at Brown Brothers Harriman.
Ironically, the increased interest in Latin American and Southeast Asian currencies is in large part a bet on the strength of the dollar, to which they are generally tied. Most investors see the dollar appreciating against both the yen and the European currencies.
Japan presents its usual conundrum -- a wide gap between market trends, which have pushed the yen to a record 102 to the dollar last week, and the fundamentals, which argue for a level of 120 to 130.
Thus money has flowed into developing countries, now that they have refinanced their past-due loans and embraced free-market economics. Indeed, now some 60 percent of the $16 billion in short-term debt issued by the Mexican Government is owned by foreigners, especially American mutual funds. The Mexican Government has devalued the peso steadily at about 5.5 percent a year. Yet 28-day itstreasury bills yield 13.91 percent, compared with 3 percent in the United States.
Southeast Asian countries generally tried to keep their currencies stable and relatively low compared with the dollar to encourage exports. The biggest downside of these markets is the limited supply of investments. "You have to virtually beg the Thai Government to borrow money from you," said Adam M. Greshin of Scudder Stevens & Clark, which has put 5 to 10 percent of its $4 billion in global bond funds into developing markets.
How could the yield hogs be turned into burnt bacon? While the markets seem orderly now, they are extremely fragile. If, for example, the North American Free Trade Agreement is delayed in the Senate, foreign investors may well bail out of the peso. And domestic politics, of course, can undercut economic policies that are attractive to foreign investors.
Still, there is considerable risk in the industrial countries as well. "With the volatility we have seen in Europe," said Peter Frey of J.P. Morgan, "Mexico and Argentina seem like pretty predictable places."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 9.22 to 3,569.95," tracks Dow Jones Stock Average, Aug. 6-13, 1993; "Yields in Mexico Remain Attractive," tracks average yield on 28-day Treasury bills, Jan. 1993-Aug. 13, 1993; "The Mexican Peso Remains Stable," tracks Mexican peso in cents, Jan.-Aug. 13, 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); THAILAND (91%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS MEXICO (96%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); THAILAND (91%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



377 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/August 8-13

BYLINE: By Francis Flaherty

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
To Trim Itself for a New Era, Johnson & Johnson Cuts 3,000 

Second-quarter sales: $3.54 billion. After-tax profits: $495 million, up 9.5 percent over the 1992 quarter. This may not sound like a company that would cut 3,000 jobs, but it is. Johnson & Johnson announced last week that it will eliminate that many positions, through layoffs and early retirements, by the end of the year. The company, whose main products are prescription drugs, hospital supplies and consumer products like Band-Aids and Tylenol, hopes to save more than $100 million a year from the trims. Why perform such surgery on an apparently healthy company? The reason, of course, is the expectation of strong pricing pressures in a new era of cost-conscious health care. Nor is Johnson & Johnson unique. From insurers to hospitals, "all the health care companies are battening down the hatches," said one analyst. Indeed, in recent months drug companies alone have announced job cuts of at least 18,000.
 
American Prevails in Fare Case
 
"It's like a hole in one," exulted an American Airlines lawyer last week after a Federal jury quickly dismissed unfair-pricing claims brought against the company. But the stakes in the case -- brought by Continental and Northwest airlines -- dwarfed anything you might see on the links. American stood to lose up to $3 billion if the jurors found that it was trying to drive the plaintiffs out of business when American's chief, Robert L. Crandall, instituted low, tiered fares last summer. Summer travelers, meanwhile, hoped the verdict might mean the start of fare cuts that have been uncharacteristically rare this season. Some suspect that Continental and Northwest, loathe to do something they were suing American for doing, have been postponing any summer price drops until the case was concluded.
 
Woman Gets Top Columbia Spot
 
Columbia Pictures has named Lisa Henson, a Warner Brothers executive, as its new president for worldwide production. Ms. Henson, who has helped produce such Warner hits as "Batman" and "Lethal Weapon," was tapped for the job by Mark Canton, her former Warner boss and the current Columbia chairman. Ms. Henson, 33, joins the very small circle of high-level Hollywood women executives, joining Sherry Lansing, the head of Paramount Pictures, and Stacy Lasally, president of production at Tri-Star. Ms. Henson is no stranger to the world of entertainment. Her father, the late Jim Henson, was the creator of the Muppets of "Sesame Street."

Unisys: Downsizing Goes Up
 
Downsizing has now gone about as far up the corporate ladder as it can. The president of the Unisys Corporation, Reto Braun, is leaving to run a $2 billion Canadian company, and Unisys will not replace him. "Speed is far too important in this business to have any extra layers of management," said James A. Unruh, the computer company's chairman. Others share the sentiment. G.E.'s chairman, John F. Welch Jr., has long seen no need for a president; Louis V. Gerstner Jr. of I.B.M. concurs. Why ax the presidency? The academic answer: As companies delegate more duties to their lines of business -- the current fashion -- these top-shelf officers are less needed. But one consultant had a more street-wise response: "It depends on what the top guy wants," he said, "and not much else."

Court Backs Mutual Benefit Plan
 
Better late than never. So thought the 700,000 customers of the nation's largest failed life insurer last week, when a New Jersey court approved a restitution plan. The insurer, 148-year-old Mutual Benefit Life, will pay its customers in full -- with 5 percent interest too, at least for some. How is this possible for an insurer who is $1.1 billion in the hole? Simple. Instead of liquidating the company and paying customers part of the money owed, New Jersey decided to keep it in business. But there's a catch. Customers may have to wait up to seven years to get their funds back. They can get their money earlier, but it'll cost -- a whopping 45 cents per dollar during the plan's first year, for instance.

Saturn Recalls 380,000 Cars
 
A car has 20,000-odd parts. Problems with one of them, the alternator, have led the Saturn Corporation to recall more than 380,000 autos for repair. The defect has sparked engine fires in 34 Saturns, but no injuries or deaths. The flaw affects all Saturns made from 1991, when G.M. established the Saturn subsidiary, to mid-April 1993, when the problem was uncovered. As recalls go, Saturn's seems easy: The company will fix 90 percent of the faulty cars within three months, for about 20 minutes per car and a total bill of $8 million.
 
 
 
ECONOMY

 
Federal Grazing Fees to Grow
 
Ranchers will find it hard to swallow, but the Administration has announced plans for a large rise in grazing fees on Federal lands in the West. Affecting 280 million acres, the plan will increase monthly fees from $1.86 per animal unit -- defined as a cow and a calf, or five sheep -- to $4.28 by 1996. The move will earn the Treasury about $20 million a year, but the monthly fee is still less than the $5 President Clinton originally proposed, and much less than the $5 to $15 fees charged on private lands. The grazing-fee rise is just the first of planned Administration reforms of private use of Western Federal lands. Miners, timber companies and farmers who now pay below-market rates to use public lands can all expect Federal fee increases.

Deleverage: Word of the 90's
In the 80's it was leverage; now it's deleverage. Companies in the 90's are selling assets to slash debts. Last week's examples: Westinghouse will sell $1.1 billion in electrical businesses to the Eaton Corporation; the deal will reduce its $5 billion debt from junk bond and real estate forays. And, to pare its $1.1 billion debt, Charter Medical will sell 10 hospitals to Quorum Health for $340 million.

Productivity Falls -- Again
 
After nearly two years of growth, productivity dropped for the second quarter in a row, the Labor Department reported last week. Measured by worker output per hour, productivity fell at a 2.5 percent annual rate between April and June, following the first quarter's 1.6 percent rate drop. But the second-quarter decline was hardly uniform. The manufacturing sector, which accounts for one-fifth of the economy, increased productivity at a 5 percent rate, for example, while Labor reported sharp but unspecified productivity declines in restaurants, health care and other service industries. Are economists worried? A bit, but some note that services productivity is hard to measure -- which is why Labor doesn't release specific figures for that sector. And other experts put the two-quarter drop in context, noting that it comes on top of seven consecutive quarters of growth.

Online Is In Line for Profits
 
"The check is in the mail." That popular lie may be obsolete soon, and a tiny company now has a big patent riding on the change. Although experts believe many future bill payers will pay by home computer rather than by check, the industry was stunned when Online Resources and Communications of Fairfax, Va., secured a patent for an at-home bill-paying process. The patent may apply not only to banking services, but to pay-per-view television, computer stock-trading and other at-home transactions. One observer says the patent covers an act that will be as common as hooking up an answering machine. Online may not be tiny much longer
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Pepsi's $500 Million for Poland
 
Pepsico announced last week its plan to invest $500 million in Poland over the next five years. The investment -- double the $250 million Polish investment that Coca-Cola revealed in March -- is sure to escalate the cola wars for Poland's 38 million consumers. But only 40 percent of the Pepsi stake will go to soft drinks. An equal amount will go to the snack-food market, and the other 20 percent will finance Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurants that Pepsi plans to build in Warsaw and other Polish cities. Pepsi has shown growing interest in international markets recently. Since April, it has announced two other five-year plans: a $750 million investment in Mexico, and a $115 million investment in Hungary.
 
Germany Plans Cuts in Welfare
 
Burdened by the costs of reunification, Germany is planning the first cuts ever in its generous postwar social programs. The reductions would cover all kinds of welfare benefits, from unemployment compensation to pensions to child care payments. The maternity stipend of $235 per child will be completely eliminated, for example, and unemployment compensation benefits will be shaved by 3 percent. If Parliament approves, the cuts would save $45.2 billion per year -- an impressive sum until compared with the $62.5 billion yearly minimum Bonn pays for reunification. Meanwhile, Germany may soon be joined in such cuts by other European nations burdened by the recession.

'John Doe' Banned by Seoul
 
In a long-awaited anti-corruption move, South Korean President Kim Young Sam has decreed that the use of incorrect names on bank and brokerage accounts will no longer be permitted. No one knows the precise extent of the longtime practice, which is used to avoid taxes and to make secret political donations. For instance, while officials know that 3 percent of brokerage accounts have "false," or fictitious, names, an unknown number have "borrowed" names from others. Users of wrong names, whether false or borrowed, have only two months to stop. After that, they'll pay a 60 percent fine -- in real money.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Crandall: His fares held fair. (Associated Press); Lisa Henson, at college in 1982. She has another big chair to fill in Hollywood. (Nevin I. Shalit); The 1991 Saturn Sports Coupe; Soon bypassed? (Associated Press); The Unisys idea of a president.
 
Graphs shows job cuts announced by selected drug companies (Source: Company reports); aveage monthly grazing fee per animal unit. (Source: Agricultural Statistics Service, U.S.D.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); USY (LSE) (81%); UIS (SWX) (81%); UIS (NYSE) (81%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); UNISYS CORP (81%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); JURY TRIALS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOSPITALS (75%); WOMEN (75%); INSURANCE (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); VERDICTS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



378 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Winners as Well as Losers in the Great Flood of '93

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
THE losses from the flooding in the upper Midwest this summer continue to grow. So, in other cases, do the profits.
On the negative side, there has been damage estimated at $12 billion. Experts say the economic toll could continue to mount for weeks to come, even as the Mississippi River and its swollen tributaries slowly subside. Barge traffic is not expected to resume on much of the river system before the end of the month, even under the best of circumstances. Railroads may need several months to return to their finely tuned schedules. Truckers will be slowed by road and bridge repairs. 
 The disruptions to the transportation system, in turn, will force manufacturers, retailers and other businesses to scramble to satisfy customers, adding to overhead costs.
There are other burdens to come that few are anticipating. For instance, towns and counties, many already struggling to balance their budgets, may have to raise property taxes sharply on homes and businesses unless the Federal Government can be persuaded to pay the entire tab for rebuilding local roads, bridges and sewers. Local politicians say there is little hope that state governments, which are equally hard pressed, will bail them out.
For each blow suffered, though, there have been strokes of good fortune. The unflooded laundromat up the street from the submerged one enjoys a boom in business. The hardware store sells out its pumps and home-repair equipment. The farmer on high ground gets higher prices for soybeans and corn. Local contractors and aerial-survey firms get a lot of new business.
For others, the good fortune may take longer to become apparent. Somewhere among the flooded merchants, undoubtedly, are entrepreneurs who will use their insurance payments to set up different businesses that may be far more prosperous than the ones they had been pursuing before the flood came.
In addition, as recently shown in south Florida following Hurricane Andrew, the process of recovering from natural disasters brings billions of dollars of Federal emergency-relief and insurance money into the stricken region. Eventually, there may be a positive jolt to the local economy. Bank analysts, for example, say that except for a few tiny community banks with nearly all of their business in the hardest-hit areas, banks in the region stand to make more from new lending than they will lose from unsecured losses.
Following is a preliminary, incomplete scorecard of business winners and losers from the flood of 1993.
 
The Winners
 Farmers: The eastern Midwest, outside the flood area, expects close-to-record corn and bean crops, and higher prices than last year, providing the crops can be harvested before the first frosts. Even in hard-hit states like Iowa, farmers on high ground may come out with enough of their crops to earn more than they did from the record yields of 1992, thanks to higher prices.
Monsanto: Heavy rains kept farmers from tilling fields and nourished weeds, creating record demand for Monsanto's Roundup, the world's best-selling herbicide. Farmers will probably plant more acreage next year to make up for shortfalls this year, leading to continued high demand.
Fertilizer companies: The IMC Fertilizer Group, the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and Arcadian Partners L.P., three of the big publicly traded fertilizer companies, and many privately held cooperatives expect a big jump in demand next year not just because of increased acreage but also to make up for nutrients washed from soil.
Pioneer Hi-Bred International: The nation's largest provider of corn seed has huge stocks and stands to gain market share from small, local competitors whose seed crops were damaged, as well as added sales from expanded planting next year. A minor side benefit for breeders like Pioneer with broad product lines: the corn strains that do well even in this extremely wet summer can be identified for future breeding programs.
Pumping-equipment makers: Sta-rite Industries, the Delevan, Wis., subsidiary of Wicor, is the main supplier to Sears, Roebuck and other retailers of sump pumps and related hoses. It has been operating at triple the normal summer production rate for five weeks to meet demand from the flood zones. Rivals like Wayne Burners and Water Pumps (a unit of Scott Fetzer, owned by Berkshire Hathaway), Simer Pumps (the Rival Company) and F. E. Myers (Pentair Inc.) have also been seen a surge in demand.
Chicago Board of Trade: Trading soared in the exchange's grain futures and options pits, setting a monthly volume record forJuly.
Lawyers: "The first priority for everyone was to keep customers operating," noted Ernest Micek, an executive vice president at Cargill Inc. "The second job, which a lot of people are just getting to, is sorting out the costs." That will require heavy scrutiny of contracts and may lead to litigation for some companies. Expect insurers to be drawn into many of the battles. Lawyers will also be in heavy demand as businesses try to make Federal relief programs work to their advantage.
 
The Losers
 Farmers: Hundreds of farmers along long stretches of the Mississippi, the Missouri and several tributaries lost most if not all of their crops to flooding. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy estimated the flooded land at 8 million acres and said 12 million more acres were too wet to produce any crop -- for a total area about the size of South Carolina. Hundreds of thousands of other farmers from Minnesota to Missouri and as far west as eastern Nebraska expect reduced yield because of soil saturation from heavy rains and wind damage to crops with shallow root systems.
Grain elevators: From the Mississippi to the eastern edge of the Great Plains, grain elevators, many of them owned by small operators and farm cooperatives, will suffer losses because they are unable to ship stocks already on hand; over the longer term, they will also be hurt by smaller harvests.
Livestock and poultry growers: Feed prices are headed up. One of the harder-hit big producers will be Tyson Foods, said Leonard Teitlebaum of Merrill Lynch. He has cut his projected earnings for this year by 5 cents a share to a new range of $1.25 to $1.30. But Tyson Foods is probably better positioned than smaller competitors because it has more cost-plus contracts with major customers that allow it to pass on increased expenses, according to John McMillin at Prudential Securities.
Food Processors: Archer-Daniels-Midland estimated recently that the flooding is costing it $1.5 million a day. The flooding has kept 75 percent of its barges tied up, forced rerouting of many of the remainder and reduced loadings. ConAgra's flour mills at Alton and Chester, Ill., were flooded. The company's Montfort meat-packing subsidiary also had two plants shut in Iowa for several weeks, and barge operations were idled. But other divisions such as ConAgra's agrichemicals distribution business may have benefitted and analysts say the overall losses will be minor. Privately held Cargill, the largest of the three giants, has also suffered "substantial losses," mostly because of logistical difficulties. One example: 100 tank cars of high-fructose corn syrup were bottled up in Kansas City freight yards so long that soft-drink bottlers on the West Coast used sugar instead. Hardest hit in the group has been Hubinger, now a French-owned concern; its Keokuk, Iowa, corn processing plant has been shut for more than a month because of flooding.
Barge lines: The American Commercial Barge Line, the nation's largest barge operator, based in Jeffersonville, Ind., had more than one-third of its 3,500 barges idled on the Mississippi. The industry as a whole is losing $3 million a day in revenue from the shutdown, according to its trade group. But the bottom-line impact is much less. American Commercial, for example, has laid off workers and shut down terminals to cut costs. CSX, its parent, figures the loss to net income will be less than $5 million for the quarter. Much of it could be recouped if the rivers are opened by September. Barge operators would have a heavy backlog and could raise prices during what has historically been the industry's busiest season.
Railroads: All of the major railroads serving the flooded regions face losses in the tens of millions of dollars for repairs and higher operating costs. The Santa Fe was especially hurt by the 25-day closing of its double-tracked main line from Chicago to Kansas
City. Others with big losses include the Burlington Northern, the Union Pacific, the Norfolk Southern and CP Rail of Canada. But small short lines face the most crippling losses. The largest of those endangered lines is the Gateway Western, which lost a large section of its main line from St. Louis to Kansas City, and faces almost certain bankruptcy without Federal aid.
Amoco: The Midwest's biggest oil company suffered from reduced travel throughout the rainy season and a wide range of flood-related disruptions. Amoco's chemical plant in Peoria has automated unloading facilities for barges; with barges grounded, the plant got supplies by rail, but handling them was much more labor intensive and expensive. And Amoco's oil pipeline to its Whiting, Ind., refinery was hampered when a pumping plant in Niota, Ill., was flooded.
Insurance companies: The industry projects losses in the range of $600 million to $1 billion, far less than the hit it took from Hurricane Andrew. Most flood and crop insurance is ultimately the liability of the Government, even if sold through the private sector. Business interruption insurance often carries very high deductibles and only big businesses are typically covered for it in flood situations.
Tourist-related businesses: The St. Louis arch became a popular destination for folks wanting to view the Mississippi in full flood, but many other tourist destinations have suffered. Hannibal, Mo., the birthplace of Mark Twain, had 10 percent of its normal traffic in July. Even Branson, Mo., the country music center 200 miles from any significant flooding, saw a major dropoff in visitors. In Iowa's northwestern lake country, boat dealers and clothing shops that cater to tourists began slashing prices on merchandise to end-of-season levels last month, nearly a month ahead of normal. The Mississippi River Parkway Commission estimates that 50,000 guest beds have gone unfilled each night in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Missouri and Illinois.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In West Des Moines, railroads were losers as their tracks washed out; the ties were pulled to reinforce levees. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); Terry Loehing surveys his flooded cornfields in Hermann, Mo. (Elsa Hasch for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS; SMALL BUSINESS; INSURANCE; ENTREPRENEURSHIP; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RIVERS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); RETAILERS (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); BUSINESS OWNERS INSURANCE (74%); HURRICANES (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (69%); HARDWARE STORES (69%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (65%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



379 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 25; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
New Reminders on Harassment

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
IT may be true, as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission contends, that the agency's new regulations on harassment in the workplace break no new legal or policy grounds. But the regs, which will be published for comment by the public as soon as the Office of Management and Budget and everyone else within the Government has had his or her say, may by their very existence send a message to companies about firming and toning their harassment policies.
The regs are in the pipeline at least in part because sexual harassment has received so much attention in the last few years, obscuring harassment based on race, religion, national origin and disability. They are a reminder that all forms of harassment are discrimination and that proving it rests on similar legal arguments. 
 "Other harassment also violates anti-discrimination law," said Dianna Johston, an E.E.O.C. assistant legal counsel in the Title VII equal pay division, who said the different types of discrimination rested on similar arguments. "We felt a need to consolidate the rules in one place."
The regs draw on bits and pieces of anti-discrimination law, agency rulings and previous E.E.O.C. publications like the National Origin Guidelines. A refresher course, from the draft copy of the new regs:
* Employers have a duty to maintain a working environment free of harassment based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or disability.
* Conduct is harassment if it creates a hostile, intimidating or offensive work environment, unreasonably interferes with the individual's work or adversely affects the employee's employment opportunities. The conduct includes such things as racist epithets, raunchy jokes and ethnic slurs, and usually, though not always, has to be systematic.
* The standard for evaluating harassment is whether a reasonable person in the same or similar circumstances would find the conduct intimidating, hostile or abusive. The perspective of the victim -- his or her race, gender, age, place of origin, etc. -- has an important place in the evaluation. "You take into account particular sensitivities or histories," Ms. Johnston said. "Men might regard some jokes as flattering. Women don't agree."
* Unwanted sexual conduct is not the only form of sexual harassment. "Gender-based animus" is also harassment. "It usually occurs where women have gone into traditionally male professions," Ms. Johnston said. "Male co-workers might try to make her life miserable." However, men entering traditionally female professions could also be victims of gender-based animus.
* Employers are liable for the acts of those who work for them if they knew or should have known about the conduct and took no immediate, appropriate corrective action. Employers who fail to draw up explicit, detailed anti-harassment policies and grievance procedures may put themselves at particular risk. "Employers are not required per se to have policies," Ms. Johnston said, but if they do not, employees can assume "the supervisor is acting with the imprimatur of the company."
SOME civil rights lawyers are less cautious than the E.E.O.C. about the new regs' potential impact. "It seemed they felt a need for a clear statement," said Stephen Paskoff, a former E.E.O.C. lawyer and civil rights litigator who now teaches companies how to follow workplace law. "It says that we are going to treat other things with as much seriousness as sexual harassment."
Companies have jumped on the sexual harassment training bandwagon, Mr. Paskoff said, to the detriment of other concerns. "Men often feel harassment workshops aren't for them," he said. Companies get their employees' attention more quickly by making it clear they are concerned about all forms of harassment. "Companies should indicate there is a global behavioral standard they expect their employees to follow. If we say sexual jokes are inappropriate, we can use that as a model to say why age-based or raced-based jokes are inappropriate."
Perhaps with the optimism of the committed trial lawyer, Mr. Paskoff said he expected the codified guidelines to have some impact on plaintiffs' chances in court. They may make it harder for the courts to ignore the E.E.O.C. as they decide discrimination cases. "The courts can get around it, but at least it requires them to look at it," he said.
 
 
 
A LEGAL FIELD TO WATCH
IS discrimination law, once a legal speciality beloved only by idealists devoted to poverty, about to move uptown?
Stephen Paskoff, a civil rights lawyer, has been building a business on companies' worries they may run afoul of workplace civil rights law. As president of Employment Learning Innovations in Atlanta, he teaches companies how to foster equality at work and avoid litigation. He believes a convergence of political, legal and social factors may put civil rights on an upwardly mobile path:
* Politics: Unlike his recent predecessors, President Clinton genuinely supports civil rights law; that is clear from his statements and Justice Department appointments.
* Society: Americans are becoming more aware, thanks to Anita Hill and Rodney King, of race and gender.
* Legislation: New laws, like the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act, are now in force and have heightened awareness of civil rights.
* Economics: Many other areas of law are becoming less lucrative. For example, it is getting harder to win big verdicts in liability law.
These changes are turning "what used to be an unprofitable area into another tort," Mr. Paskoff said. "Good lawyers are jumping in."
Welcome to Dan Quayle's nightmare.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Stepping Stones Toward Equal Opportunity in America"

1963: The Equal Pay Act outlaws discrimination in wages on basis of gender.
 
1964: Civil Rights Act outlaws discrimination on basis of race, color, religion or national origin. Title VII of the act applies to the workplace and creates the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
 
1967: The Age Discrimination in Employment Act outlaws workplace discrimination on basis of age.
 
1972: Title VII is amended to outlaw gender discrimination.
 
1978: The Pregnancy Discrimination Act, another amendment to Title VII, makes it illegal to refuse to hire or fire a pregnant woman or compel her to take maternity leave.
 
1986: The U.S. Supreme Court rules sexual harassment is discrimination.
 
1990: Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, an amendment to the 1967 age discrimmination act, outlaws discrimination in employment benefit programs on the basis of employees' age for employees 40 and older.
 
The Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 outlaws discrimination against people with physical and mental disabilities.
 
1991: The "reasonable woman" standard emerges in harassment rulings.
 
1993: The Family and Medical Leave Act grants employees in companies with 50 or more employees the right to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for a pregnancy or an illness of a close family member.
 
Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (93%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (93%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; WOMEN; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CORPORATIONS EMPLOYMENT (95%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (78%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (71%); RELIGION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



380 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Middle Years, Middle Road

SERIES: Second of three articles on investing by generation. Next: the 60's and older.

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
PEOPLE in their 40's and 50's are often called the "sandwich generation," squeezed by competing needs to finance their retirement, pay for their children's education and maybe support their elderly parents.
For emergencies, they should keep three months of living expenses on hand, and more if they lack disability insurance and secure employment, said Harold R. Evensky, a financial planner in Coral Gables, Fla. An umbrella policy that extends their auto and homeowner's insurance also can help protect their growing net worth. 
 On the savings front, "Most people tend not to integrate their planning" for short- and long-term needs, Mr. Evensky said.
Money needed in the near future for tuition payments or a child's wedding should be put in investments with little volatility, like short-term bond funds. Mr. Evensky likes the Vanguard Short-Term Bond Fund and Federated Short-Intermediate Government Fund because of their low expenses. For people in high tax brackets, he recommends the Vanguard Limited Term Municipal Bond Fund.
Because the 40's and 50's are peak earning years, investing for retirement is paramount, and finding a tax-free vehicle to do so really pays off. "Pump as much as you can into qualified retirement plans," like 401(k) plans, Mr. Evensky said. Avoid overloading on your company's stock, because by reducing diversity, that increases risk. Up to 25 percent of earnings from a sideline business can be contributed to a Keogh retirement plan.
Once money is stashed away in retirement plans, don't borrow from them.
Portfolio growth remains an important goal because inflation erodes wealth over time. For example, the equivalent of an $18,000 car today will be a $64,000 car in the year 2030, assuming a 3.5 percent annual inflation rate, said Carol C. Pankros, a financial planner in Palantine, Ill.
A 45-year-old who wants to have $1 million by age 62 must save $2,088.04 a month if the investments return 9 percent a year, Ms. Pankros estimated.
Someone who has delayed investing and is ready to make a first mutual fund purchase should buy a solid "blend" fund, mixing growth and value stock-picking styles, said Katharine A. McGee, a St. Louis financial planner. She recommends two funds that buy large companies at lower-than-market prices -- the Nicholas Fund and the Yacktman Fund.
Diversification is the key for people who have built a core investment portfolio. "Spread your portfolio out and build it up," said Ross Levin, president of Accredited Investors Inc., a Minneapolis financial planning firm. "Introduce funds that work with each other without overlapping."
Mr. Levin likes Schaefer Value, a large-capitalization value fund that uses a contrarian strategy; Janus Fund, which moves between stocks and cash, and Selected American Shares, a large-capitalization growth fund. He also recommends the Brandywine Fund, a growth fund, for people who can meet its $25,000 minimum investment.
Ms. McGee noted that "as people get older, it gets more important not to lose money in down markets." To reduce risk but maintain capital growth, she would split domestic equity holdings between large- and small-capitalization stock funds that focus on growth or value. In the growth category, she likes the Janus Fund and Neuberger & Berman Manhattan. On the value side, she recommends the Lindner Fund and FAM Value, which invest in smaller companies.
Ms. Pankros, whose core portfolio recommendation is the Vanguard Index Trust 500, advises bringing overseas stock fund holdings up to 5 to 10 percent of the portfolio by buying shares in Harbor International, T. Rowe Price International Stock Fund and Vanguard Commingled International Stock Fund. On the domestic side, she would add Neuberger & Berman Partners or Guardian Fund, medium- to large-cap stock funds, and Vanguard Wellington, a balanced fund.
The international funds from Harbor and Price also appeal to Mr. Evensky. For further diversity, he likes two value funds, SEI Value and Windsor II, and three growth funds, SEI Capital Appreciation, Gabelli Growth and Twentieth Century Growth. Small-stock funds he favors are Meridian, SEI Small Cap Growth Portfolio and DFA U.S. Small Cap Value.
As people grow older, they should decrease equity exposure to 60 or 65 percent, most advisers say. However, "If you don't have too much money set aside already, you might have to stretch it a little," up to 70 percent, said Eileen M. Sharkey, a planner in Denver.
For the nonequity portion, Ms. Sharkey recommends the T. Rowe Price Short-Term Bond Fund and the Fidelity Intermediate Bond Fund. Among long-term offerings, she likes the PIMCO Total Return and PIMCO Low Duration funds.
Once a portfolio grows to, say, $350,000, "add an inflation hedge," Ms. McGee advised. She likes the Vanguard Specialized Energy Fund, which she said "should do well if the market falls and inflation creeps up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold R. Evensky.
 
Table lists funds recommended by Harold R. Evensky as vehicles for short-term savings. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BOND FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); US KEOGH PLANS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); ACCREDITATION (77%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (71%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (71%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



381 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Viewpoints;
The Energy Tax: Its Time Will Come

BYLINE: By DAVID MORRIS and MICHAEL LEWIS; David Morris and Michael Lewis work at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, a nonprofit environmental group in Washington, D.C., and Minneapolis. They are co-authors of "Beating the B.T.U. Tax: The 6 Percent Solution."

 BODY:
NOW that the budget battle is over, the nation can pick up the pieces of the broad energy tax. After long debate, Congress wound up with a narrow transportation fuel tax instead of President Clinton's across-the-board B.T.U. plan.
The funny thing, though, is that during the long national budget discussion, the proposed energy tax was portrayed solely as a deficit-reduction tool. It surely was that, but it was also much more. It took an important new approach to taxation. 
 Unlike most other taxes, a levy on energy is a tax on "bads" instead of "goods." A broad energy tax -- especially one that exempted renewable fuels as President Clinton's would have done -- is a tax on pollution. Isn't it better to tax pollution, something we want less of, than to tax income or jobs, two outputs we would like more of?
Looked at slightly differently, a broad energy tax penalizes inefficiency. An efficient business that uses less energy will pay less tax than an inefficient one that uses more. From this perspective, too, an energy tax seems like a good idea -- over and above its ability to raise revenue.
The specifics of the abandoned B.T.U. tax show how this works. The tax would have raised the price of energy, on average, by 6 percent. This means that consumers who improved energy efficiency by 6 percent would offset its impact.
Such improvements in efficiency are easily and economically achieved with current technology. For example, because processing scrap requires less energy than processing virgin materials, manufacturers can boost efficiency simply by using more recycled matter. The average glass mill uses 30 percent scrap glass, but some glass mills use as much as 78 percent. If we raised the industry average from 30 percent to 55 percent, the industry as a whole would reduce energy use enough to fully offset the B.T.U. tax.
Similarly, the typical aluminum smelter uses 31 percent scrap, while a state-of-the-art mill uses 70 percent. Raise the average smelter's use of scrap from 31 percent to 40 percent and the industry's savings would cancel the cost of the B.T.U. levy.
What about factory and office lighting? A 20 percent improvement in lighting efficiency would offset the B.T.U. tax, and would also be easily achieved. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, many buildings have reduced lighting energy by 35 percent to 83 percent through investments that repay themselves within three years.
And the farm lobby -- which loudly opposed the B.T.U. tax -- had only to look to its own fields to see how to neutralize it. More and more farmers are adopting a cultivation technique that minimizes plowing. While they use this "no tillage" practice to meet Federal soil-erosion goals, they've learned that it also lessens diesel fuel consumption by three to five gallons an acre.
Wherever one looks, in fact, similar savings are possible. But because Congress rejected a broad energy tax in favor of a narrow one, far fewer people will adopt these antipollution strategies.
Nevertheless, someday soon the nation will use tax policy to cut pollution. After all, the general idea is hardly revolutionary; "sin" taxes on liquor and cigarettes have long been widely accepted. And some states already use taxes to stem specific pollutants. Minnesota taxes some toxic emissions at 8 cents a pound, for instance.
But a broad-based energy tax -- especially one that exempts renewable fuels -- would dramatically extend this concept. And it may do so soon. The battle of the budget may be over, but the idea of using a tax as both a revenue raiser and a pollution deterrent may have just begun.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); EXCISE TAXES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); FUEL TAX (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); EROSION CONTROL (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); BIOFUELS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (68%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (63%); EROSION (50%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, DAVID; LEWIS, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



382 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 15; Column 3; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: COINS;
Rare Slave Badges To Be Sold at Auction

BYLINE: By Jed Stevenson

 BODY:
COMING to auction on Sept. 9 is a collection of very rare slave-hiring badges from Charleston, S.C. Slave-hiring badges were issued to the owners of slaves who wished to rent them out for day work. In more rural places such an arrangement would have been a purely private affair, but in Charleston the practice became regulated in the early 18th century, and by 1751, hired-out slaves were required to wear badges.
Only 100 or so badges are now extant, and Stack's, which is handling the sale for the John J. Ford Jr. Collection, estimates that the 14 being offered will bring anywhere from $200 to $4,000. While thousands of badges are thought to have been issued by Mobile, Ala.; Savannah, Ga., and New Orleans, only badges from Charleston are known to exist. What happened to all the others is a mystery. 
 While the badges seem deeply repugnant today -- similar badges were also issued for dogs -- they are illustrative of the culture of slavery. Slaves hired for day work were paid less than whites, and because employers wanted to save money, whites were soon losing business. So Charleston instituted not only the badge system but also a quota system to protect white jobs: fewer badges were issued for occupations in which whites might lose jobs to slaves and more badges were issued for occupations in which nonwhites predominated.
By 1793 in Charleston, slaves who sold fish or vegetables at stands in the city were also required to wear badges. But eventually slave owners started to balk at the fees charged for the badges -- $2 to $7 a year, depending on occupation -- and lobbied to get the badge laws repealed in 1790.
After 10 years, Charleston reinstituted the badges at the insistence of white artisans. After the Civil War, badge laws were ignored and finally forgotten.
Each thin copper badge, an inch and a halfsquare, showed the name of the city, the year of issue, a badge number and a trade. Those trades are indicative of the economy of time: about 60 percent of the badges that still remain are for house servants, while nearly 20 percent are for porters. The rarest occupations are those of mechanic, carpenter, fruiterer and fisherman.
It is impossible to tell exactly how widespread the badge system was in Charleston. In the 1840's, Charleston had about 15,000 slaves, and it's estimated that 12 percent to 30 percent were ever hired out. Some early Charleston badges are struck on the reverse with the name of the city marshal (also a silversmith) who was responsible for enforcing the badge laws and setting wage scales.
The 14 slave-hiring badges, along with a superb collection of United States and Colonial coins that will also be sold, can be viewed at Stack's,123 West 57th Street, beginning Aug. 30, from from 10:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Monday through Friday. Stack's will be closed on Labor Day, Sept. 6. The sale is scheduled for Sept. 8 and 9 at the Park Central Hotel, Seventh Avenue at 56th Street. More information is available from Stack's at (212) 582-2580.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the 14 slave-hiring badges, this one from 1847, for a porter. (Stack's)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (93%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (71%); MOBILE, AL, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLESTON (SC) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (93%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (71%); MOBILE, AL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NUMISMATICS; SLAVERY; AUCTIONS SLAVERY (90%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (69%); MARSHALS (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, JED

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



383 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Ms. Leonard, Mr. Tobin

 BODY:
Kathleen Ann Leonard, an economist for the Senate Finance Committee in Washington, was married yesterday to James R. Tobin Jr., the director of the political-action committee of the National Association of Life Underwriters in Washington. Msgr. John Leonard, the bride's uncle, officiated at the Roman Catholic Church of the Immaculate Conception in Durham, N.C.
Mrs. Tobin, 25, graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She is a daughter of Charles and Patricia Leonard of Durham. Her father, now retired, was an administrator of the Veterans Administration Hospital in Durham. Her mother was a substitute teacher in Vancouver, Wash. 
 Mr. Tobin, 26, graduated from Duke University. He is a son of Ellen Tobin and Mr. Tobin Sr. of Bay Head, N.J., both retired. His mother was a substitute teacher at Ridgewood (N.J.) High School. His father was a vice president of public relations at the Becton-Dickinson Company in Franklin Lakes, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOX (FRA) (56%); BDX (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BECTON DICKINSON & CO (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE & FINANCIAL ADVISORS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE & FINANCIAL ADVISORS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (78%); DURHAM, NC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (83%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RELIGION (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); VETERANS (53%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (53%); 

PERSON: LEONARD, KATHLEEN ANN (KATHLEEN ANN TOBIN); TOBIN, JAMES R. JR JAMES R TOBIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



384 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: When Banks Make Currency Go Up and Down

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Central Banks Make It Easy to Bet Big on a Sure Thing" (Business Day, Aug. 3), you note that European central banks have given away "hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars" in failed attempts to defend certain currencies, particularly buying French francs, which were collapsing in value. This, you write, "again raised the question of why European governments, which end up paying the losses of their central banks, have been so willing to put up with a system that makes such losses a periodic inevitability." 
 While you implicitly recognize that Germany's Bundesbank could have averted such huge losses had it cut its discount rate by even a token amount, you fail to identify the primary political condition that allows the Bundesbank to choose its present high interest rate policy. The Bundesbank, like our own Federal Reserve Board, is independent of any elected government and free to pursue policies that harm the public while benefiting its natural constituency of powerful speculators and commercial bankers.
Presidents, none other than Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson, warned that vesting public powers in a privately directed central bank would result in such monumental favoritism. For instance, you report in "Europe Tumult Is U.S. Banks' Gain" (Business Day, Aug. 4) that the five largest United States banks have taken advantage of the latest instability in currencies and earned more than 40 percent of their profits on currency trading, reporting combined revenues of $2.2 billion from such activities in the second quarter alone, a record.
Why, then, would elected governments put up with such a system in which their central banks continue to subsidize private speculators and commercial bankers? It could be that those governments are now less accountable to electorates than to the private interests that finance their expensive political campaigns.
Certainly, the 1992 Presidential election campaign failed to offer any choices to American voters on such fundamental issues as the structure of the nation's central bank and the formulation of monetary policy.
All of us, including elected officials, journalists and the television news media, have too easily accepted the basic premise that central banking policy is best left to the so-called experts and that ordinary citizens, as well as Congress, should look the other way.
 
TIMOTHY A. CANOVA
New York, Aug. 6, 1993
 
The writer has taught international finance at the college level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING CENTRAL BANKS (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); POLITICS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: CANOVA, TIMOTHY A

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



385 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 10; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Counsel Praises Bankruptcy Creditors

 BODY:
"Anatomy of L.I.'s Major Bankruptcy" fails to provide the overall context that would allow the reader to understand how and why any real estate bankruptcy takes place on Long Island during the recession of 1993.
The Racanelli corporate bankruptcy was not some sudden implosion but a calculated response by the firm to a combination of factors far beyond their control. These elements include the redrafting of Federal tax laws lowering the value of real estate investments, the ongoing commercial credit crunch, the region's lingering recession and a property tax structure that is crippling commercial and residential property owners alike. 
 In an internal report to members of the Association for a Better Long Island, which represents some $15 billion worth of Long Island commercial, retail, industrial and residential property, economist Thomas Conoscenti reported that, in contrast to past recessions, the economy of Long Island was affected by the downturn earlier and more severely than many other regions in the U.S.
He noted that, given the severeity of the regional downturn, coupled with the deep defense cutbacks, it will take some time for the local economy to fully recover. He reminds that the recession hit the regional manufacturing sector very hard. Since its peak in 1985, over 50,000 manufacturing jobs, mainly defense-related, have been lost. Employment in the construction and trade sectors has likewise declined in response to the weakness in the housing market and consumer spending. All of these elements have an impact on the commercial real estate market.
Those who view the economic troubles of the Racanelli company as some distant event with little impact on their personal lives, have no conception of how pivotal a role real estate plays in the Long Island economy. When a bankruptcy is suffered by a leader in an industry that comprises nearly a third of the bicounty's economy, every facet of the economy is touched -- from charitable donations to furniture sales to school tax generation.
While the Racanelli company, through their law firm, Meltzer, Lippe & Goldstein, is using the protection of the bankruptcy law to pay back their creditors, the best protection for all of us is a tax credit and economic structure that strengthens our real estate industry rather than one that invites them to hemorrhage. Until Congress understand that simple but profound fact of business, we all will stand with the Rancanellis.
 
STEPHEN HESS
Hauppauge
 
The writer is president of the Association for a Better Long Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: LICB (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RACANELLI, N, ASSOCIATES LONG ISLAND COMMERCIAL BANK (58%); LONG ISLAND COMMERCIAL CAPITAL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RACANELLI, N, ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; BANKRUPTCIES REAL ESTATE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); 

PERSON: HESS, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



386 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: AUG. 8-14: On to Congress;
A Hurdle Is Cleared For Free-Trade Accord, And Its Foes Hiss

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration linked American trade policy to labor and environmental issues as never before last week when it struck three deals with Mexico and Canada, its prospective partners in the still-unratified North American Free Trade Agreement. The deals are aimed at protecting workers, businesses and the environment from possible side effects of the accord.
For decades, the United States has resisted tying trade to other issues, contending that free trade helps economies most when each country is free to use any competitive advantage it perceives as in its overriding interest, including low-wage labor or a willingness to pollute. Last week's deals will set up commissions in Ottawa and Washington to assure that all three countries at least enforce their domestic labor and environmental laws. 
 The three nations also agreed to meet at least annually to review any trade surges that threaten to overwhelm an industry in one country. If approved by Congress this fall, the free-trade pact would take effect on Jan. 1, 1994, and gradually eliminate tariffs, quotas and other investment barriers over the next 15 years.
But the side agreements persuaded few if any politicians or interest groups to change their views, and the agreement's prospects on Capitol Hill are cloudy. Ross Perot, the Texas businessman and Presidential aspirant, said the side agreements did not satisfy him. Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House majority leader, came off the fence when the deals were announced -- on the side of the free-trade pact's opponents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO; CANADA; MEXICO UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ENVIRONMENT; LABOR TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); POLITICS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



387 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: It's August; How Much Policy Can a Nation Take?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SAY of them what you will, Ronald Reagan and George Bush knew the value of a good rest from the public eye. Every August, Mr. Reagan flew to Santa Barbara and disappeared for a month, visible only rarely and only by telephoto lens, riding horses and clearing pesky brush. Mr. Bush went to Maine and rode boats and played golf. Momentous and terrifying world events sprang up with lunar regularity in August but dynamite could not have extracted these Presidents from their leisures.
January's Man from Hope, Ark., by contrast, threatens daily to become August's Man from Boring, Md. President Clinton has spent more time on television in the last seven months than Willard Scott. He has been host to domestic roundtables, proposed Russian economic rescue plans, contorted himself over policies on gay soldiers and illegal nannies. He has peddled budgets and stimulus packages and motor-voter schemes and campaign-finance reform, and heaven help us all, it is blazing hot outside and he is only now getting to the really mind-numbing stuff. 
 Much of America is in station wagons headed for the Great Smokies or at hardware stores getting the mower blades sharpened and new webbing for the lawn chairs. The President, however, is happily warming to the task of telling the citizenry about free-trade agreements and health-care reform. Even his own endless trek to a vacation spot is a series of earnest photo-ops with the Pope, flood victims and jobless defense workers.
He may be -- indeed, probably is -- terrifically conscientious about policy. It also may be rotten timing. At some uncalibrated dew point in the public psyche, the preachings of even the best-informed and most diligent leader cease to be informative. People start tuning out.
Managing the capital of the Presidency -- as Mr. Reagan proved until Iran-contra and Mr. Bush until the economy soured -- is a lot like managing the diamond cartels. Put too little on the market and they become too precious for the common man; too much and they become zircon. Pacing is all. At the moment, with fingers in Bosnia, the North American Free Trade Agreement, health-care reform and a new round of budget cuts, Mr. Clinton seems to be holding a fire sale.
Monitoring of public opinion provides some hints of that, though nothing conclusive. According to Nielsen Media Research, the television ratings people, the new President was absolutely boffo in February. His State of the Union address then grabbed a 54.8 rating, higher than any such speech since Ronald Reagan drew a 60 in his first such address in 1981. George Bush's best State of the Union, in 1992, got a 47.2. (Forget the actual numbers; each speech was seen on well over half the television sets that were turned on. A hit television show does well to get a 20 rating and a 30 share of sets in use.)
In succeeding months, Mr. Clinton's viewership has more or less steadily tailed off, as might be expected of anyone who has lost his novelty. By June, the introduction of his Supreme Court nominee, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, was drawing a 15.6 rating.
 
Competition From Old B-Movies
 The ratings for Mr. Clinton's Aug. 3 budget speech are not in. But a CNN-USA Today opinion poll after the address suggested it was tuned in by about half of adults, but that only about 21 percent persevered to the end. That would seem to place the President perilously close to Bill Cosby's B-movie "Ghost Dad," which attracted 16 percent of viewers in a network outing some months ago.
Mr. Clinton's advisers complain, with some justification, that the President is catching flak for incessantly directing national attention to the very problems -- the deficit, the trade balance, health care -- that people elected him to attack. "I think people said three months ago that we weren't adequately focused," a senior Administration official said last week. "Now we're adequately focused, and now they're saying, 'Hey, gee, we're too focused.' Give me a break."
All right. To be fair, Mr. Clinton is in part a victim of changing habits and tastes. Citizens cleaved to Franklin Roosevelt and his radio fireside chats in part because he was a voice of hope amid depression, and in part because there was no Nintendo, "Hard Copy" or Chicago Bulls to divert them. Mr. Reagan offered some of the same hope and singleness of purpose amid economic travail and Cold War tension.
The current President has none of those unifying advantages. Fears of war have faded, replaced by a faceless anxiety about jobs and life styles that the Government seems wholly incapable of salving. There is no national cause, like defeating the Soviet Union or rebuilding the cities, because there is no enemy and there is no money. Nor is there any reliable way to judge what is important, because the 1980's explosion of news and pseudo-news -- from cable TV, national newspapers and television "magazines" -- has created calamity out of a simpler, if more threatening world.
That is all the more true if political leaders are not modulating their voices, distinguishing the essential from what is merely extremely important. For the Presidency these days is less a bully pulpit than a telephone solicitor, interrupting the dinner hour or "Roseanne" for a pitch that the folks at home either deeply mistrust or simply don't want to hear. Make it quick; we just got home and it's only two hours till bed. And no, you can't have our credit-card number.
"Some period ago, maybe in the 60's and 70's, people felt that government and politics were either interesting to them or were acutely important, because they had a direct relationship to their daily lives," one of Mr. Reagan's advisers, the opinion analyst Robert M. Teeter, said last week.
The changes of the 1980's, he said, broke that link. Presidents and governments just don't command rapt and continuous attention any more. To get attention at all -- to seem vital again, to set the national agenda -- they have to learn when to shout and when to whisper. And when to say nothing at all.
Especially when it's hot.
It's very hot now. No offense, but we're a busy nation, this is our only week off, and we have to go make deviled eggs for the block party.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TELEVISION; PUBLIC OPINION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BUDGETS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (72%); POLITICS (70%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); CARTELS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); HARDWARE STORES (52%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



388 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A Little Gun Control, a Lot of Guns

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
IT was 1981 when a young man with a handgun shot President Reagan and his press secretary, James S. Brady, prompting what would become a new wave of gun-control activism led by the permanently maimed Mr. Brady and his tirelessly campaigning wife, Sarah. In the dozen years since that day, Americans have bought nearly 50 million new guns, including more than 20 million handguns. Altogether, Federal officials estimate, Americans may own 200 million firearms.
Last week, as promised, President Clinton declared his support for the measure that gun-control advocates have sought most avidly: the Brady bill, which would require background checks on handgun purchasers in every state, in most cases with a waiting period of five business days. Such checks aim to detect felons, people who have been committed for mental illness, out-of-state residents and others who are legally prohibited from buying a gun. 
 It remains uncertain whether the bill will become part of a broader, more controversial crime bill, as it did -- fatally -- in 1991. But with the public behind it by nearly nine to one in several different polls, a majority of Congress in support and a sympathetic President, there seems a real chance that this most modest of limits on the hallowed American right to wield firearms will soon become law.
How much practical difference it would make is less clear. The National Rifle Association may be stretching things when it says that legal restrictions affect only the law-abiding.
But most gun-control advocates admit that many criminals will still find ways to buy or steal weapons. And half the states already have some sort of background checks or waiting periods, some more stringent than the requirements in the Brady bill.
Backers see the bill as only the first of many measures to tighten regulation of gun sales. They also argue that the Brady bill's nationwide reach will hamper gun-runners who now buy in the states where purchases are easiest for resale in blighted cities. This could ultimately raise black-market prices and make it harder for a 16-year-old boy in New York or Washington to find a weapon to settle a petty dispute.
Proponents say that checks and waits could also deter people who are not normally part of the criminal world from obtaining a gun for murder or suicide in the heat of anger or depth of depression. Since half the country's households already keep a gun, though, this effect too may be limited.
"I don't think anybody sees it as making a major dent in the violent crime problem," said Philip J. Cook, an economist and expert on gun violence at Duke University who is sympathetic to gun controls. "It's not going to reduce the murder rate by 20 percent.
"But it's not very costly either, and it's not going to be a major imposition on gun buyers. It's a common-sense type of regulation, and it's going to help on the margin."
Figures from California, which has the kind of law that many Brady bill promoters would write for the whole nation if they could, are instructive but not conclusive. There, a 15-day waiting period covers purchases of all guns -- rifles and shotguns as well as handguns. It also covers private sales of used guns, not just retail sales. (The Brady bill covers only handguns and retail sales, leaving significant gaps.)
In 1992, the state received 559,608 applications to buy a gun. After checking out the would-be purchasers, it turned down 5,763 of them, in nearly all cases because they had criminal records. What no one knows is how many of the rejected applicants then had friends stand in as buyers or found weapons on the black market.
Nor can anyone possibly calculate how many crimes were prevented. Through recent years, as its gun-purchase laws were tightened, California's murder rate still hovered at 25 percent above the national average. Yet, as Sarah Brady said in an interview, "You have to stop and ask: 'Would you rather have those 6,000 people able to go into a store and buy a gun?' "
Though she declines to speculate on numbers, Ms. Brady, who is chairwoman of Handgun Control Inc., says she is sure that background checks and waiting periods will prevent many killings, assaults and robberies. But even more, she sees the Brady bill as "the cornerstone of a serious gun-control policy in America" that will eventually include more restrictions.
That, of course, is the reason the gun lobby opposes the bill despite its moderate scope, and even despite the support it receives in surveys from more than four out of five gun-owners.
 
In the Chamber: Assault Rifle Ban
 High on the advocates' list of next steps are a national ban on semiautomatic assault-style weapons, which hold large numbers of cartridges; limits on multiple purchases (like the new anti-gun-runner law in Virginia that restricts buyers to one handgun a month); background checks for private gun sales, and far tighter control over who gets Federal licenses to sell guns.
"Without the first step of the Brady bill, we're never going to get anywhere," Ms. Brady said. "We can't waste any more time." She pointed out that the Virginia limit on multiple purchases, for example, would be unenforceable without some sort of waiting period, backed up by a computerized system that would catch those who tried to buy from several stores.
Other future measures she and her colleagues are discussing, she said, include more thorough background checks including fingerprinting of purchasers, required safety training for gun buyers and a system of "needs-based licensing," with different requirements for hunters, target shooters and security guards. Her organization, unlike some others, does not call for an outright ban on handgun sales. This would arguably do far more to curb crime, but the proposal raises the hackles of many recreational gun owners who may support more modest measures.
Ms. Brady predicts, optimistically in light of history, that passage of the Brady bill will soften up Congress for more. "Once we get this," she said, "I think it will become easier and easier to get the laws we need passed."
In any case, many experts caution, gun laws -- short perhaps of politically unreal steps to bar most sales or even confiscate many weapons -- cannot transform patterns of violence that are deeply rooted in economic, cultural and social trends. Gary Kleck, a criminologist at Florida State University who is a skeptic about the effects of gun control, agreed that background checks are worthwhile. But he cautioned against expecting too much from even stringent rules.
He argues that the criminal justice system does not -- either through jails or gun controls -- have a large impact on crime. "Social control doesn't come from the legal system, but from a national social order," he said. "So the N.R.A. is flat wrong in suggesting that the alternative to gun control is stopping that revolving-door justice system they are always yammering about. And Handgun Control is wrong in suggesting that its measures will have much of an impact either."
Dr. Cook puts a different gloss on the same sobering truth: "In these areas of social control there is only so much you can do. You would have to accept a 10 percent reduction in violent crime as a great victory.
"If we stop thinking in percentages and think instead that maybe we'll save a few hundred lives every year," he said, "then it sounds like a worthwhile thing to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hand-sewn panels commemorating people killed by guns stretch around the Lincoln Memorial reflecting pool at a gun control rally. The Brady Bill's backers say it will be worth it if it saves only a few hundred lives. (Jerome Friar/Impact Visuals) (pg. 4)
 
Graph: "Armed and Then Some" shows number of guns produced for sale in the U.S. from '50 to '90 (Source: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms); "Thinking About Limits" shows percentage of people surveyed who think their should be a law requiring a waiting period when purchasing a gun or who favor a ban of all gun sales (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (59%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (59%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; BRADY HANDGUN VIOLENCE PREVENTION ACT; GUN CONTROL; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PUBLIC OPINION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) GUN CONTROL (94%); FIREARMS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); MURDER (89%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (89%); CRIME RATES (88%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); SMUGGLING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FELONIES (74%); DEPRESSION (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); SUICIDE (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (60%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



389 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
For Japan, the Old Slurs Are the New Party Line

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
CHANGE in Japan often seems glacial, a process of half-steps that usually add up to little. Then there are periods like the last 10 days.
In a complex about-face, Japan has broken through a half-century of denials, speaking frankly about the terrible mistakes of World War II and about the dynamics of its economy. But while the Japanese now express shame over what their military leaders did during World War II, they feel just fine, thank you, about what their economic leaders have done ever since. 
 Five years ago, some Western critics were derided by the Japanese establishment as wrong -- and probably racist -- for declaring that Japanese policy was set by bureaucrats, not politicians, and that Japanese politics was often corrupt. The Japanese denied that their country's economy was controlled by an "iron triangle" of bureaucrats, businessmen and politicians and bristled at the notion that Japan's form of state-supported capitalism was different from Western capitalism.
That was then. Now, there is a dramatic change in the language -- if not the reality -- of political and economic discourse here. Suddenly, expressions and criticisms previously regarded as blasphemous when uttered by foreign "revisionists" and "Japan bashers" are spoken with a surprising matter-of-factness.
"This is giving me a funny feeling," said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a former United States trade negotiator and one of the experts who has been reviled as a "revisionist." "Five years ago they were condemning me to the outermost reaches of hell for saying some of this stuff. We were called racist."
Morihiro Hosokawa, the new Prime Minister and the first one drawn from outside the Liberal Democratic Party in 38 years, not only declared the war an act of aggression, but also vowed to break open the iron triangle that has run Japan for decades and kept its markets effectively closed to foreign competition.
Mr. Hosokawa referred to the corrupt old order as "disgusting" and promised, "We will eliminate this collusive structure."
The new Minister of International Trade and Industry, Hiroshi Kumagai, dropped a bombshell when he said that Japan's economy is basically closed and riddled with anti-competitive practices. "Big business's cartel-like character is tremendous," Mr. Kumagai insisted.
The country's business leaders, worried about the mounting international anger over Japan's trade surpluses -- the imbalance is expected to come to more than $150 billion this year -- now admit that tougher measures may be required to crack open Japan's markets. Some suggest that targets for imports may be necessary if the surplus is to be reduced. That is just what the Clinton Administration has demanded.
"It is a fact that Japan has a trade surplus with the United States, and that Japan's market openings are not sufficient," said Masaru Hayami, chairman of the Nissho Iwai Corporation, one of Japan's largest trading houses. "I understand the American side's feeling of wanting to use target figures for a range of three to four years."
Of course, skeptics argue that this cathartic outpouring is a means of deflecting calls for real change. There are already plenty of signs that the new Government will be slower to enact reform than to talk about it. In his first press conference last week, Mr. Hosokawa said he was eager to reduce Japan's yawning trade surpluses, but he rejected most of the Clinton Administration's proposal for doing so.
 
Japan: Emulate Us

 
 The surprising candor has another aspect. If the Japanese once responded to Western economic critics by saying, "Not so," they are now saying, essentially, "So what?" There is a new, vocal insistence that some elements of the Japanese way of doing things have worked brilliantly and should be emulated.
The problem is that these longstanding methods fly in the face of classical Western economic theory, since they give government an active role in shaping industrial and financial development, inhibiting the free play of markets.
Japanese officials may be openly declaring some aspects of their power structure corrupt, but they are increasingly selling abroad those features about which they feel confident, particularly the idea that a well-drawn and judiciously applied industrial policy is superior to free markets. In effect, the latest Japanese export is not a product, but an economic theory, and in the marketplace of ideas it could well prove as competitive as Japanese autos and VCR's.
One of the main ideas espoused by the so-called revisionists -- people like Mr. Prestowitz, Chalmers Johnson, author of a pioneering study of Japanese industrial policy, and Karl Van Wolfern, who has written on the political structure -- is that Japan is different in fundamental ways from the West, principally because of the role of the bureaucracy in guiding the markets. Classical Western economists argue that any such interference will, by definition, weaken the economy. Japanese experts say the results speak for themselves.
In the current period of Japanese glasnost, the differences in its economic organization are claimed as a virtue, particularly since other successful East Asian nations, including South Korea, Taiwan, China and Singapore, have followed a similar path.
In a speech last year, Yasushi Mieno, the governor of the Bank of Japan, exhorted the boards of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to recognize that the Japanese model was superior to the free-market approach.
"Experience in Asia has shown that, although development strategies require a healthy respect for market mechanisms, the role of the government cannot be forgotten," Mr. Mieno said. He added that Japan hoped the West would examine its approach and "that the fruit of such a study will be applied extensively to development strategies."
 
No Change Seen

 
 "It's hard to question success," said Vinod Thomas, chief economist of the East Asian region at the World Bank. "The only area of the world that has grown with such dramatic success in recent years is East Asia."
Japan has sent economic missions to the Central Asian republics of the former Soviet Union and, more recently, to Moscow. Those economic missionaries have not been shy about explaining why they feel the West's insistence that Russia throw its markets open is misguided.
And that is why, even with the new mood in Tokyo, some things are bound to change, and some will not. The new Government and its Prime Minister want to remove points of friction between Japan and the West and to restore the Government's credibility by attacking corruption. But the Government still wants to cultivate a strong economy, following its own proven methods.
Confidence in those methods is evident. Recently, the Government directed trading companies to import less beef, because this was causing prices to decline and hurting domestic producers. Eijiro Hata, the Agriculture Minister, defended the intervention in the market, arguing that low prices ultimately would hurt the Japanese consumer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: EST AS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES WORLD WAR II (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); TRENDS (79%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (72%); CARTELS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN); STERNGOLD, JAMES HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



390 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo;
Weary Clinton Takes Break From His Own Frenetic Style

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VAIL, Colo., Aug. 14

 BODY:
After a whirlwind first stretch that has lasted seven long months, President Clinton has finally gone on vacation today. He has left Washington weary; even worse, much of his support is exhausted.
Not for two generations has a new President sought to do so much, so fast and so directly. And not since modern polling began has popular approval of a new occupant of the White House declined so precipitously and failed to rebound. 
 Mr. Clinton, to be sure, is a plurality President, having won office with just 43 percent of the popular vote. That left his standing fragile from Inauguration Day, guaranteeing that each fight would require a balancing act as he sought to reconstitute a vague mandate for change.
But more than that has been at work to give Mr. Clinton's initial months in office their frenetic cast. The triumphs and wreckage scattered across his calendar reflect what he himself brought to the Presidency. More by nature than circumstance, perhaps, Mr. Clinton governs by careering from one tight spot to another.
That pattern reflects Mr. Clinton's inclination first to overreach, offering schemes too ambitious for political reality, and then to pull back, leaving confusion about which tack is authentic. From homosexuals in the military to the battle over the budget, he has relied for extrication on words in torrents, energy without sleep and, in the end, compromise.
 
Emotional Issues
 Against early advice to maintain his promised focus on the economy, Mr. Clinton has swept through a dizzying series of emotional issues, planting him in the middle of dust-ups on nannies and Social Security, civil rights, accusations of misconduct in the White House and the propriety of a haircut at the Los Angeles airport.
Such stormy weather could hardly have been more different from the breezes or steady trade winds that prevailed under his two Republican predecessors. But then Mr. Clinton, who turns 47 on Thursday, is the first of the Vietnam War generation to reach the White House, and the squalls of his tenure may reflect something of his youth.
After taking a real vacation in four years, Mr. Clinton not surprisingly responded, "Definitely," the other night when asked whether he was looking forward to this one. (Even so, he will do a day's work on Monday in delivering a health care address to the National Governor's Association in Tulsa, Okla.)
But it seemed somehow telling that Mr. Clinton and his family, who own no home of their own, began their holiday with a visit to this Rocky Mountain resort and its paterfamilias, former President Gerald R. Ford.
Among the misgivings of those who clamored for change, one may be that from George Washington to George Bush, Americans have generally regarded Presidents as fathers. In appearance and manner, Mr. Clinton has played more the role of a brother or even a son.
That should not detract from the very real achievements of his first seven months in office, and at news conferences, on talk radio shows and in public forums, Mr. Clinton has grown accomplished at reminding his audiences of just how much he has accomplished.
 
What Has Been Done
 There was the quick Congressional agreement on the broad outlines of his budget, he says. There was the Vancouver summit meeting and the pledge by the West to help shore up the economy of the former Soviet Union. There was the deal to allow logging in the Northwest while protecting spotted owls. There was the passage of his national service plan, which provides college grants in return for a commitment to community work.
And most important of all was the approval of his plan for spending cuts and tax increases to shave $496 billion from the projected budget deficit over the next five years. As the President asserted today in a radio address he taped before beginning his holiday, "It puts our house in order with the largest deficit reduction measure in our history."
But Mr. Clinton's very need to call attention to his victories suggests the degree to which Americans have not seen them as such -- or the degree to which the gains have been obscured by what else went wrong.
 
Turbulent Weeks
 As landmarks in a young Presidency, the failed choices of Zoe Baird and Judge Kimba M. Wood as Attorneys General; the flaps over the Presidential haircut; the abrupt dismissal of the staff of the White House travel office, and the suicide of Vincent W. Foster Jr., the deputy White House counsel, have in some ways stood out even more than the triumphs.
Part of the reason, as Mr. Clinton's aides acknowledge, is that he is not adept at making his victories look easy. Rather than choosing a modest goal at the outset, Mr. Clinton's inclination has been to reach for the stars, and only then to walk his sights back to earth.
That pattern reflects two contradictory impulses that Mr. Clinton shares with many members of his generation: idealism and a preference for consensus. But in the political world, they leave him in the position of always appearing to retreat, with each accommodation raising questions in the minds of many voters about what he truly believes in.
That was the case with Mr. Clinton's budget proposal, whose early promises of a middle-class tax cut were quickly withdrawn, with other ambitious elements later cast aside to satisfy lawmakers' objections. The endless haggling took its toll: public support for the package dropped even after it was approved by Congress.
 
Different Yardsticks
 To those who ask why he seems so willing to compromise, Mr. Clinton has insisted that toughness should be measured in the task. He says he would rather do hard things than merely talk tough about them.
But compromise, even to achieve a goal, stands at odds with the kind of public swagger Americans usually admire in politicians. If that translates to weakness, as it appears to have done, it raises the danger of self-perpetuation, with each concession inviting another.
After an election that was more a referendum on his opponent than on himself, Mr. Clinton and his advisers had recognized that these first months would be a forum for public judgment. Even in January, Mr. Clinton's pollster, Stanley Greenberg, was issuing reminders about the fickleness of public opinion.
As others marveled over how high Mr. Clinton's approval rating had soared, Mr. Greenberg noted that George Bush had embarked on his Presidency from similar heights.
 
Change of Generations
 What perhaps no one could measure seven months ago was how Mr. Clinton's youth, and that of his cadre of aides, would affect perceptions of his Presidency. By defeating a man 22 years older, Mr. Clinton won the single greatest generational contest for the White House in more than a century.
If his youth served then as a symbol of all that would be different, it has also carried with it the risk that affairs of state would seem to be in less than full control. When Mr. Clinton owns up to mistakes, or his staff apologizes for error, the impression left sometimes is less that of contrition than of inexperience.
As the leader of the free world at last month's Group of Seven meeting in Tokyo, Mr. Clinton carried out his role with aplomb. But there remain occasional reminders of just how young this new President can seem.
At the Denver airport this week, Mr. Clinton even became his own soundman when he encountered a malfunctioning microphone as he tried to introduce John Paul II. "Can you hear me?" the President of the United States shouted repeatedly. "Can you hear me now?"
Each time, Mr. Clinton glumly answered his own question, "No," but the Pope looked on beatifically.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton with former President Gerald R. Ford yesterday before teeing off at a golf course near Vail, Colo. (Reuters) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VAIL (COLO) UNITED STATES (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; TRAVEL, PERSONAL US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); RESORTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); MISCONDUCT (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); MOUNTAINS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS; FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



391 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Seeks to Return Ancestral Lands to Descendants of Runaway Slaves

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DAS RAS, Brazil

 BODY:
Backed by lawyers and land titles, a rancher recently drove black peasants from their traditional lands here, bulldozing their houses, shooting their horses, burning their fences and running cattle through their crops.
But drawing on a centuries-old spirit of resistance, the farmers stubbornly refuse to surrender lands that their ancestors first settled as fugitive slaves. 
 "We prefer to walk on our own two feet than to be led around like goats on halters," said Mario Nunes de Souza, a leader of the Rio das Ras, or Frog Creek, community in the state of Bahia in northeastern Brazil. "We don't have the slightest doubt that the land will be returned to us."
Using this remote land fight as a test case, Brazil's Attorney General's office hopes to set a legal precedent that could eventually protect hundreds of black villages in rural Brazil. In September, prosecutors will ask a federal judge to return ancestral lands to black farmers here on the ground that they are descendants of a "quilombo," a community of runaway slaves.
Seeking to extend to traditional black communities the same legal protection offered Indian tribes, Brazil's 1988 Constitution provides that the state should recognize land use by "descendants of quilombo communities" and should "issue them the respective titles."
The clause was supported by black groups, the Roman Catholic Church, the leftist Workers' Party and groups advocating distribution of land to landless peasants.
 
500,000 Could Win Land Titles

Brazil imported about 18 million enslaved West Africans, more than any other colony or country in the Americas. Instituted shortly after the Portuguese claimed Brazil in 1500, slavery lasted here until 1888, longer than anywhere else in the Americas.
Today, anthropologists estimate that the quilombo clause in the Constitution could give land titles to about 500,000 descendants of free black communities established before slavery was abolished. In contrast, most of Brazil's 250,000 Indians already live on legally protected reservations.
The urgency of land titling grows as paved roads and hydroelectric dam projects suddenly bring the modern world to the doorsteps of remote black communities.
In Brazil, which has the world's largest black population after Nigeria, interest in quilombos is growing with the approach of the 300th anniversary of the execution in 1695 of Zumbi dos Palmares, the most prominent black resistance leader. About half of Brazil's 155 million people trace all or part of their ancestry to West Africa.
Originally called Little Angola, the Palmares quilombo grew to house 20,000 people in 10 villages scattered over a forested, hilly area overlooking sugar cane plantations on the coast of what is now Alagoas State. ("Kilombu" variously means "encampment" or "forest dweller" in the languages of West Africa's coast, the homeland of most Africans forced into slavery in Brazil.)
Enduring from 1605 to 1694, the Palamares quilombo provided a challenge to the slave-based economy of colonial Brazil. Registered recently as a National Historic Landmark, Palamares is being excavated by a Brazilian-American archeological team led by Charles E. Orser, an assistant professor of anthropology at Illinois State University.
Brazilian black activists hope to observe the 300th anniversary of Zumbi's death by distributing land titles to descendants of quilombos. Last year, the Palmares Foundation, a Government agency, started a nationwide survey of eligible black communities.
 
Dams Are Planned Where Slaves Fled
 Isolation is a modern legacy of 18th- and 19th-century Portuguese colonial policy. The authorities relentlessly pursued escaped slaves with special military units and private bounty hunters. In the Amazon, slaves escaping the cocoa plantations of Santarem started to flee up the Trombetas River in the early 1800's. After each armed incursion in pursuit, they retreated deeper into the forest, portaging their possessions around river rapids.
Today, these same rapids attract the attention of companies that want to build two hydroelectric dams in the area, and descendants of these Amazon quilombos are fighting for titles to lands used by 7,000 people in 25 villages.
"Community representatives are now walking and marking the limits of their traditional lands," said Leinad Ayer de Oliveira Santos, an anthropologist.
In Brazil's central savanna, slaves fled the gold mines of Goias in the 18th century for rugged hill country above Bezerra Falls on the Parana River. Today, about 4,000 descendants live in 41 villages scattered over 780 square miles.
"When I first went there in 1982, there were no roads," said Mari Baiocchi, an anthropologist. "The only way in was by donkey."
Later, as Brazil's agricultural frontier stretched west, dirt roads reached into the territory and plans were made to block Bezerra Falls with a hydroelectric dam. Although Goias State registered the lands as historic patrimony in 1991, about 60 mining, ranching and farming companies moved into the blacks' ancestral lands.
"There are serious land conflicts in the region, characterized by the systematic invasion of lands and the expansion of existing ranches," read a recent report by Furnas, the power company.
Historically, political support for the land rights of Brazil's rural blacks has been weak or nonexistent. But in one exception, about 1,000 descendants of a quilombo in Maranhao State won legal protection of their area in 1990. At the time, a Maranhao native, Jose Sarney, was Brazil's President.
"In Maranhao there are 10,000 families living in 400 black communities," said Alfredo Wagner, an anthropologist who in 1989 conducted a survey financed by the Ford Foundation. "But five years after the Constitution went into effect, no quilombo has won official recognition. Today, Maranhao is a champion of agrarian conflicts."
 
Music Groups Give Blacks Influence
 But Brazil's rural blacks are winning new allies -- the Roman Catholic Church, the Workers' Party and an urban black rights movement, bolstered by popular Afro-Brazilian music groups like the internationally famous drum corps Ile Aiye and Olodum.
"I had been to Brasilia 15 times, but I never got a reception like the one I got last May," Mr. de Souza said as fellow workers gathered under the shade of a mango tree here to hear him tell the story once again. "Those boys from Ile Aiye really opened doors."
Indeed, the turning point for the decade-old struggle of the 198 families here may have come in May, after a black newspaper reporter made the 13-hour bus ride here from Salvador, the coastal capital of Bahia State and the home of Ile Aiye and Olodum. His dispatches caught their attention.
On May 18, a mixed group of rural and urban black activists arrived in Brasilia, the capital. As the pounding of tall drums echoed off Government buildings, protesters chanted: "Quilombo, here we are; my only debt is to the quilombo; my only debt is to Zumbi."
In a turnaround, the delegation was received by Brazil's Minister of Justice, Mauricio Correa. The minister, a close friend of President Itamar Franco, promised to speed legal recognition of the quilombo descendants.
In the 18th and 19th centuries, Brazilian landowners demanded zealous enforcement of laws banning quilombos, which were defined as "two or more blacks living in the wild." Today, Brazilian landowners demand stringent, scholarly proof of a quilombo's existence.
Warning that the quilombo movement is "a Trojan Horse for agrarian reform," some landowners say they will ask Brazil's Congress to remove the clause when Congress starts a constitutional review in October. Black groups are pushing to set a legal precedent before the review starts.
"There is no evidence that there ever was a quilombo on my land," maintained Carlos Newton Vasconcelos Bonfim, the rancher who moved here in 1984. "If my land was a quilombo, then all of Bahia is a quilombo, because there are blacks all over the state."
Asserting that his land titles are part of an unbroken chain stretching to the 1600's, Mr. Bonfim ignored several orders by a local judge to return 58 square miles, about one third of his land, to black families. To enforce a 1988 accord with the peasants, Mr. Bonfim's ranch hands bulldozed houses, shot livestock and destroyed crops, farmers here said.
Last October, the rancher won national notoriety when gunmen under his control blocked a Roman Catholic bishop and 300 people from celebrating an outdoor Mass at a black community here.
 
Lack of Paper Trail Complicates Search
 A federal judicial decision in the dispute will hinge on a report by a team of anthropologists who came here in June. Their scientific detective game will undoubtedly be replayed again and again in the 1990's as more and more black communities seek recognition.
Illiterates, former slaves left no paper records. Fugitives, they rarely registered their births with local Catholic churches. Contributing to a lack of paper documents, Brazil's military Government ordered the nationwide destruction of all slave records in 1890. The Government feared indemnity lawsuits by former slaveholders.
In one breakthrough, researchers uncovered a 1667 royal order to establish authority around Rio das Ras, "where bandits and blacks live in quilombos." Always a frontier area, this region was tied by the Sao Francisco River to regions where slaves worked in colonial cotton plantations and salt mines.
Moving camps frequently, fugitive Afro-Brazilians stayed ahead of 19th-century bounty hunters, but left little material evidence behind for 20th-century historians.
"We have to rely largely on oral history and reconstructing genealogies," said Siglia Zambrotti Doria, an anthropologist who worked here.
Local family trees go back as far as the 1870's, well before abolition. According to family histories, in the 1890's farmers here shifted cultivation from the dry, inhospitable outback to the fertile river bank. This would coincide with the end of river-borne slave-raiding parties.
With no trace of a plantation house in the area, older community members led researchers to the ruins of a hilltop corral. According to local lore, a bounty hunter detained captured Indians and runaway slaves in the corral.
"Our ancestors came here to get away from the whip, from the hard labor regime," Mr. de Souza said to explain why the community resists an offer by Mr. Bonfim to live on 10 percent of his ranch. "We aren't livestock to be kept in a corral."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Using a land fight between a rancher and black peasants in the state of Bahia, Brazil's Attorney General's office hopes to set a legal precedent that could eventually protect hundreds of black villages in rural Brazil and extend to traditional black communities the same legal protection offered Indian tribes. Geraldo Pereira da Silva joined other farmers taking a break from working in their fields near Bom Jesus da Lapa; Farmers near Bom Jesus da Lapa, in the northeastern state of Bahia, Brazil, on their way to work in their fields. (Photographs by John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Map of Brazil, indicating Rio das Ras

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (92%); ANGOLA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; RIO DAS RAS (BRAZIL) BRAZIL (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (92%); ANGOLA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); CONSTITUTIONS; SLAVERY; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS FARM LABOR (91%); LAWYERS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (90%); SLAVERY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); HORSES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (75%); JUDGES (73%); SUGAR FARMING (72%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); RELIGION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (64%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (61%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



392 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL NOTES;
Candidates Fight for NOW's Support

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

 BODY:
No sooner had Christine Todd Whitman picked up a political plum in her Republican campaign for New Jersey governor by winning the support of the state chapter of the National Organization for Women than Gov. Jim Florio tried to persuade one and all that it was more like sour grapes. Then Mr. Florio spent the rest of last week trying to steal the plum from Mrs. Whitman's plate, or at least to force her to share it.
NOW's state political action committee announced its qualified support of Mrs. Whitman on Monday, but by the end of the week, Mr. Florio and his Democratic political allies were buoyed by a wave of defections among local NOW chapters. 
 Beth B. Hess, a charter member of NOW's state organization and a founder of the Morris County area chapter, led the defectors, resigning from the state chapter after criticizing the group's support of Mrs. Whitman as "irresponsible" and "utterly stupid." Ms. Hess also proclaimed Mr. Florio a "better feminist" than Mrs. Whitman.
Expressing reservations about both candidates and their stances on feminist issues, NOW stopped short of a full endorsement of Mrs. Whitman and instead issued a "recommendation" that its members vote for her.
Still, the decision was important for several reasons.
NOW has traditionally supported Democratic candidates in statewide and national races. Mr. Florio, who failed to win NOW's endorsement four years ago, had hoped the organization would support him in his uphill fight for re-election. Then there is the factor that Mrs. Whitman's Republican primary opponents dreaded and that must also concern Mr. Florio.
Mrs. Whitman is the first woman to run for governor in New Jersey as a major party candidate. While polls show no gap between the sexes and Mr. Florio running slightly ahead of Mrs. Whitman among men and women, both sides have been diligent in courting women's votes.
NOW praised both Mrs. Whitman and Mr. Florio for their support of abortion rights without restrictions, the Equal Rights Amendment and civil rights for homosexuals.
But the group split with Mr. Florio over his vigorous support of the state's controversial welfare plan, which among other things denies increased benefits to women on welfare who continue having children. Mrs. Whitman also supports the legislation, although Mr. Florio accused her of waffling on the issue to attract NOW's support.
"We are deeply disappointed that we have one candidate who is championing the New Jersey version of welfare reform nationwide and another candidate who is thus far supportive of the New Jersey welfare reform," NOW said. "However, Governor Florio is proselytizing across the nation to spread the concept. Whitman is willing to look at alternatives."
 
Reviving the 'Green Agenda'
 A former hot-button issue that has been missing from the New Jersey political debate this year stirred another special-interest group into action last week in Trenton.
A coalition of six environmental and public interest groups -- the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, the Sierra Club, the Association of New Jersey Environmental Commissioners, the American Lung Association, the Clean Air Network and the New Jersey Environmental Lobby -- launched a campaign to pressure the gubernatorial and legislative candidates into addressing environmental issues.
"We have been waiting in vain for either gubernatorial candidate to take a strong leadership role on environmental issues facing the state," said Tim Dillingham, executive director of the Sierra Club.
Four years ago polls showed that New Jersey residents placed the environment at the top of their list of concerns. But polls this year show it near the bottom of the list, with the economy and jobs at the top.
Nevertheless, the groups said they would press ahead with their "green agenda," urging strict state compliance with the Federal Clean Air Act, restoration of millions of dollars to the Office of State Planning's budget and quick passage of pending legislation that would impose tough penalties to protect the state's Pinelands wilderness area.
 
New Voice in Abortion Case
 Mother Teresa has weighed in on a legal case in New Jersey involving abortion.
She has added her voice to those of John Cardinal O'Connor, the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey and the New Jersey Right to Life Committee in asking the New Jersey Supreme Court to hear the case of Alexander V. Loce.
Mr. Loce, a college student, was arrested in 1990 when he tried unsuccessfully to block access to an operating room at a clinic to prevent his fiancee, who was eight weeks pregnant, from getting an abortion.
What began as a trespassing case has grown over the last two years into a legal debate not only about when life begins, but whether a fetus deserves constitutional protection. Mr. Loce has argued that if the fetus was constitutionally protected he may not be prosecuted "for acting reasonably in its defense."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (91%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (91%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (84%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD; GRAY, JERRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



393 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2342 words

HEADLINE: Bushwick's Hope Is a Public Project

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
In their darkest days, the blocks around St. Barbara's Roman Catholic Church in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn absorbed misfortunes of nearly biblical dimensions.
In the mid- to late 1970's, fires coursed through the streets with such regularity that to enable fast evacuation, mothers often dressed their children for bed in street clothes. In the name of urban renewal, the city tore down blocks and blocks of homes, but never built the promised replacements. Packs of wild dogs were often the only signs of life on these streets, the pounding of scavengers pulling copper wire and aluminum fixtures from burned-out buildings the only sound. 
 The Sunday after the power blackout of July 1977, when Bushwick was devastated by more looting and arson than any other neighborhood in the city, a visiting Ecuadorean priest named Gabriel Santacruz mounted St. Barbara's carved wood pulpit, with its fanciful representations of peacocks, squirrels and other animals, and bleakly told his dwindling congregation, "We are without God now."
 
Unconventional, Little Heralded, Very Successful
 Today Father Santacruz would hardly recognize the place. Though Bushwick remains intensely poor, the neighborhood around St. Barbara's Church is one of the least heralded and most successful urban reclamation projects in New York City. At its heart is the largest public housing project built in America since the Reagan Administration took office in 1981 -- a development, unconventional for New York, consisting mostly of three-story buildings, which sprawl out over once-filthy lots for a half mile or more. Its residents have named it Hope Gardens.
At the center of Hope Gardens is a 14-story residential tower for the elderly and three seven-story apartment buildings, completed 11 years ago, that form a wall along Menahan Street. But these are not what distinguish the development. Rather it is the more than 50 red- or tan-brick, suburban style three-story buildings, built over a five-year period in the 1980's, that spread for more than 30 acres in all directions from St. Barbara's, still interspersed with blocks of old wood-frame row houses, lots strewn with garbage and even crack dens.
These buildings are known as the town houses by their black residents and casitas by Hispanic residents, and they represent the Housing Authority's most sweeping move away from the signature red-brick high-rises that critics have long argued stigmatize residents and neighborhoods and add to their danger and lack of community.
Other developments intended to revive troubled neighborhoods around the city also include new low-rise buildings, but those projects focus on home ownership and are aimed at working-class and moderate-income residents. Hope Gardens, on the other hand, is overwhelmingly filled with low-income tenants, more than a third of them on welfare.
Yet its success is evident in small details. There are murals in public hallways in some of the buildings, painted by their tenants. There are tidy white draperies in some of the public hallway windows.
Antonia Vazquez, who has lived in Bushwick for more than 20 years, is not unusual when she opens the unguarded window of her light yellow, 2-bedroom ground-floor apartment and lets the sun and the laughter of children from the public school playground across Central Avenue flood into her living room.
"I've never had a problem here," she said, shaking her head toward the turmoil from the drug dens of Troutman Street 15 blocks away that people associate with Bushwick at large. "This neighborhood is safe. Everything people hear about happens over there."
 
'Gem' of Low Scale And Low Density
 Sally Hernandez-Pinero, the Housing Authority's chairwoman, calls Hope Gardens "a gem -- low scale, low density, that gives a sense of control and a feeling of private ownership."
Msgr. John Powis, the pastor at St. Barbara's, said: "I think if the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is ever going to visit a housing project in New York City, this is the one he should see. It's the best public housing in the city." Such a project could almost certainly not be built today, however, because of huge cuts in Federal spending for such construction.
Life around Hope Gardens can still be a daunting experience, with crack and heroin dealing often half a block away and gunfire often punctuating the night. While crime in several categories is down from the dark years epitomized by the power blackout, the murder and robbery rates are up considerably in Bushwick.
In Hope Gardens itself, public housing seems to have performed against the conventional stereotypes. Its crime rate is half the citywide average for housing projects. Supermarkets, dry cleaners and hairdressers have returned to the once bombed-out streets around it. And largely because of Hope Gardens, with 3,586 residents, Bushwick's population has risen by nearly 12 percent in a decade, according to Census figures.
Dozens of two-family homes sponsored by the New York City Housing Partnership, the first built in the neighborhood in more than half a century, are rising around the project with the help of city and state subsidies, and every one is now owner-occupied.
 
Unlikeliest Heroes: The Bureaucrats
 "It's not to say we don't have dark clouds here," said Vincent L. Hall Jr., a postal worker who has lived in Bushwick for 31 years and watched the neighborhood burn from his private home at Evergreen and Greene Avenues, "but to me it seems as if the sun is finally starting to shine."
Public housing isn't the only factor in the area's comeback that seems to defy conventional wisdom. In this neighborhood more than almost anywhere else, those most maligned of individuals, city government bureaucrats, were the central catalyst for the change.
To this day, Bushwick residents fondly remember the names of many of them -- like David F. Feingold, Elliott Yablon and Jon T. Collins -- and say they managed to transcend racial and ethnic differences by putting in long hours and fighting for a vision of neighborhood renewal that came out of what they learned on the street. Mr. Collins is still the liaison to the neighborhood for the City Planning Commission.
"In most of the neighborhoods that have experienced dramatic comebacks, there is an unusually strong nonprofit organization, a charismatic local leader or unusual and attractive development opportunities," said Kathy Wylde, president of the New York City Housing Partnership. "In this case, there was nothing to distinguish this neighborhood architecturally or otherwise. It's sort of the land the glacier forgot.
"The city organized the neighborhood and put it together and turned what had typically been a negative for neighborhood redevelopment -- a public housing project -- into a positive. It really re-created a neighborhood where one had been wiped out."
 
From Breweries To Blockbusters
 As a community, Bushwick dates back more than 350 years, but its modern character was shaped by German immigrants in the 19th century, who filled the wood-frame railroad flats that methodically lined its streets and who found work in its factories, knitting mills and breweries, like those that produced Rheingold, Piels and Schaefer beers.
But in the late 1960's, the neighborhood's cloistered stability began to give way to an urban free fall: factories and breweries closed by the scores and the real-estate operators known as blockbusters intimidated longtime white homeowners into selling for a pittance through intimidating, racist tactics.
But most ominous were the fires. In the 70's, the blazes -- many intentionally set, others accidental fires that raced through the attached wood-frame buildings -- struck at the rate of 500 a year.
When the city tried to save the heart of the neighborhood by replacing a full block of old frame buildings across Menahan Street from St. Barbara's -- a block that included 33 active businesses and 277 homes -- it resulted in perhaps the worst debacle of all. After wiping the block clean, the city found that for reasons varying from a moratorium on Federal housing construction to New York's near-bankruptcy in 1975, it could not build the replacement housing. Belatedly, it recognized that it had torn down the core of the neighborhood.
 
Drugs, White Flight And Unemployment
 By this time one of every 12 buildings was vacant. Attendance at Sunday Mass at St. Barbara's dropped from 1,500 to 600 in five years and the church was forced to close its school and exhaust its reserve fund. Drugs, huge unemployment and white flight swept through the neighborhood.
It was Bushwick and neighborhoods like it that Marshall Berman of City College, the social critic, was contemplating when he observed, "From ancient times to our own times, the experience of seeing one's city in ruins has been one of the traumatic primal scenes."
Mr. Yablon, the son of a trucker from East New York, was searching for some direction in his life when he went to work for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development nearly 30 years ago. Mr. Feingold had a master's degree in social work from Columbia and an interest in community organizing when he joined the agency.
The two became part of a much-heralded effort by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1972 to establish neighborhood city halls in Bushwick and a handful of other communities around the city. Soon the pair, among a crew of other civil servants from police captains to sanitation crews, began prowling its streets, listening to complaints and trying to respond to them quickly.
Mr. Yablon, who is now an assistant commissioner in the department, and Mr. Feingold, who died of a heart attack suddenly at 47 two years ago, proved to be among the most popular of the workers. They turned up at community meetings at all hours and circled the neighborhood, slapping violations on landlords, ordering tree plantings by the thousands and simply listening to people.
 
'Like Part Of the Family'
 "They were not from the particular ethnic groups they were serving," recalled Chineda Carter, who was the head of Bushwick's community board through much of the 1970's. "But I never felt Elliott and Dave were outsiders. They were always there, like part of the family."
What they heard strongly was heated opposition to a plan for a project of five 14- and 15-story buildings on the cleared urban renewal site across Menahan Street from St. Barbara's.
Arlene Young, a community organizer who led the opposition, recalled: "We said, 'No, we will not have them that high.' We didn't want them to become an institutionalized thing where people feel like there is a fence around them. We wanted people to feel just as good as the people living in two- and three-family houses around here."
Mr. Yablon and Mr. Feingold argued her case before Housing Authority officials who had begun to question high-rise development themselves. As bureaucratic delays stalled the project time and again, Mr. Feingold sketched out possible alternatives.
"We sat out there for years," Mr. Yablon, 53, recalled recently. "Then after the blackout people came to us. We just whipped out all the plans. People were interested."
 
Taking a Stand Against High-Rises
 Instead of the five towers on the block across from St. Barbara's, there would be the single 14-story high-rise for the elderly and the three seven- story buildings, the Authority agreed. And, recalled Mr. Yablon, "they committed that in the future they would do no high-rise housing in Bushwick."
Ground was broken for the first 330 apartments in 1979. Eight thousand people applied to live in them. An effort was made to choose residents who had lived in Bushwick for many years and to have a preponderance of working families.
Keeping a campaign promise, Mayor Edward I. Koch pressed for money to build close to 900 other units. These are the low-rise "town houses" or "casitas" that define Hope Gardens. The entrances to the town houses open to 12 apartments at the most and as few as six, the lowest number in the city's 324 developments. No doubt in good part because tenants clearly have a sense of who doesn't belong in their buildings or backyards, there were no murders reported in Hope Gardens the first half of this year and there was but one last year.
 
Government Help Also Raises Fears
 The project cost more than $80 million. Its tenants pay an average of $202 a month in rent, and the Federal Government subsidizes its operation with about $4 million more a year.
Still, there are problems. Around the neighborhood, the very sort of government involvement that has been helpful is also seen as potentially ruinous. On the block of Harman Street between Wilson and Central Avenues, the Casuso family, which has lived in Bushwick for five generations, is fearful that a plan to build 42 apartments, mostly for homeless families, will tip the balance on a once-anarchic block.
Kathleen Casuso, the family matriarch, said that life there had improved because of the housing project, even though there was a shootout outside her door two weeks ago, but she said that the homeless housing plan had left her bitter and might cause the family to leave.
But on the streets around St. Barbara's Church these days, the complaints can seem surprisingly middle class. For Belgica Gonzalez, who works at La Primavera florist across Central Avenue from St. Barbara's, it is not stickup men that are her concern, but street peddlers selling flowers and men who occasionally play their car radios loudly on the corner.
For Geneva Curry, a hairdresser who bought a Partnership home around the corner from Hope Gardens with her husband, Michael, "It's a struggle trying to keep the block clean."
Just inside the Hope Gardens town house where Mamie Perryman lives on Palmetto Street, a sign reads: "Neighbors -- We have a nice clean building. Let's keep it that way. Put your cigarette butts in the garbage. Let's be neighborly. Thank you."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Situated in Bushwick, Brooklyn, Hope Gardens consists of mostly three-story buildings, which sprawl out over once-filthy lots for half a mile or more. It stands at the heart of the largest public housing project built in America since 1980; Antonia Vazquez, who has lived in Bushwick for more than 20 years, said, "I've never had a problem here." (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); Months after the power blackout of 1977, when Bushwick was devastated by more looting and arson than any other neighborhood in the city, it became a synonym for urban decay. Vacant and gutted apartments lined Wilson Avenue. (The New York Times, 1977) (pg. 35)
 
; Chart/Graphs: At A Glance -- HOPE GARDENS

 Population: 3,586
 
 Buildings: 59 (55 low-rise)

 Apartments: 1,202
 
 Average household income: Less than $11,000

 Families on welfare: 432 (about 36 percent)

 Single-parent households with children under 18: 488 (about 41 percent)

 Ethnic makeup:
 2,138 Puerto Ricans (60%)
 949 blacks (26%)
 56 whites (2%)
 443 other (12%)

 Crime complaints per 1,000 residents in 1992:
 Hope Gardens: 19
 City housing projects overall: 36.3
 City housing projects in North Brooklyn: 40.9

 (Source: New York City Housing Authority) (pg. 38)
 
Map of Bushwick section of Brooklyn (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BUSHWICK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOPE GARDENS (BROOKLYN); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; PUBLIC HOUSING RELIGION (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (87%); CHILDREN (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); MAMMALS (75%); ARSON (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); POWER FAILURES (54%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



394 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Church Mirrors Neighborhood's Hope

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
When Bushwick came into its own a century ago as a brawny Brooklyn neighborhood of factories, breweries and blue-collar bustle, the construction of St. Barbara's Church served as a metaphor for its ascendance.
And when Bushwick was virtually consumed in the worst urban deterioration of the 70's, St. Barbara's once more stood as a metaphor, with its school closing, attendance at Mass falling by half, $800,000 in reserves exhausted, and, for the first time in its history, its doors locked at night to protect against theft and vandalism. 
 Today, the resurgence of the neighborhood around it is once more symbolized best by St. Barbara's, where scaffolding encases the church's landmark 175-foot high cream-colored spires.
Msgr. John Powis, who has worked in poor parishes around Brooklyn for more than three decades, said that aside from fixing structural problems in the church -- one of Brooklyn's most ornate and beautiful -- the restoration project was important because "people needed a sign of hope."
"This has been a great sign for them of their own power" he said.
The congregation, one of the poorest in Brooklyn, has raised more than $150,000 of the more than $600,000 that will be needed to complete the job. They are counting on regular monthly donations from 300 parishioners along with hope or faith to get them the rest of the way.
With the active encouragement of St. Barbara's, its parishioners have become involved in establishing a new public high school in the neighborhood, a day-care center and several other social service programs, and in pressuring the Housing Authority to provide more groundskeepers for Hope Gardens.
St. Barbara's is celebrating its centennial as a parish this year. Ground was broken for the church building in 1907 and construction was virtually completed in 1910.
Its elaborate exterior provides the often bleak streets of Bushwick with a Mediterranean, welcoming presence. In the words of the Guide to New York published by the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, its towers are "wedding-cake icing: edible."
The interior is filled with statuary, carvings, frescoes, bas-reliefs and more than 25 stained glass renderings -- the product of an outpouring of German craftsmanship from the turn of the century which in varying ways told or evoked the story of the Scriptures.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Though Bushwick, Brooklyn, remains intensely poor, the neighborhood around St. Barbara's Church, above, is one of the most successful urban reclamation projects in New York City. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ST BARBARA'S CHURCH (BROOKLYN, NYC) AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST BARBARA'S CHURCH (BROOKLYN, NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); VANDALISM (56%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



395 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
A First For Jones, A Best For Bogar

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 14

 BODY:
The baseball cracked off the top of the wall in deepest left-center, and it was as if a starter's gun had gone off in Tim Bogar's head.
"Got in gear," said Bogar. 
 There is, of course, a lot for the Mets to run from in 1993 -- investigations of all sorts and defeats of all variety. And so Bogar, deprived of oxygen but not motivation, sprinted all-out around second as the baseball rolled around the outfield at Veterans Stadium. He looked at his third-base coach, saw a blur of an arm being waved, and Bogar never looked back.
To not look back, if even for a moment, it's an experience all the Mets would savor.
An instant later, Bogar's raucous ninth-inning route of 360 feet complete, the infielder for the Mets arrived at the plate in an exhausted heap. Safe, but perhaps not quite sound.
"The dive?" said Bogar. "On a scale of 1 to 10, it was a 3. A face plant."
However, it completed Bogar's one-man body slam of the Phillies. The inside-the-park home run was Bogar's second home run of the night, his first clearing the wall and thus not taxing him aerobically. It also was his fourth hit and fourth run produced. It left his total bases for the night at 12, one shy of the club record for a game.
It also made the Mets 9-5 victors over the Phillies and meant Bobby Jones, the 23-year-old right-hander, had won his major-league debut.
"I think I will go home and sleep quite well," said Bogar.
Jones might stare at the hotel ceiling for a while, replaying the details of what was a performance of great poise and purpose, if not scintillating statistics. Jones, the soft-thrower with cerebral strength, pitched six innings. He endured four errors by his defense and allowed only one earned run. He walked one, struck out three and faced the intimidating Phillies with an economy of energy and no fear.
"Good pitches have a good chance of getting good hitters out," Jones said simply.
"He held his composure, pitched us through," said Manager Dallas Green. "He gave us what he had."
What he had at the start was a major case of nerves.
"The first inning was the worst," said Jones.
Still, the damage was only a hard but harmless double by Mariano Duncan. Jones put his first zero on the scoreboard, and the night's momentum had been initiated.
Bogar, who had gone 10-for-70 since the All-Star break, doubled and scored against Danny Jackson in the third to put the Mets ahead, 2-0. Charlie O'Brien's subsequent two-run double in that inning then doubled the score.
In the fifth, Jones took the mound with a 5-1 lead and a nice two-hitter in the works. But Kim Batiste was safe starting the fifth when Bobby Bonilla butchered a grounder at third.
Jones didn't even wince, and after yielding a following single, the right-hander did his finest pitching. He froze Rickey Jordan with a fastball for strike three. He then reduced Lenny Dykstra to a contorted oarsman with a third-strike fastball that dove away from the National League's top leadoff man.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phillies' Darren Daulton breaking up a double play with a hard slide into Mets' Kevin Baez last night. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES NEW YORK METS (94%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (91%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES NEW YORK METS (94%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (91%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



396 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
Giants Find Two Potential 20-Game Winners Better Than One

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Talk about cautious conservatism.
Dick Pole, the San Francisco Giants' pitching coach, supervises the two most successful pitchers in the National League, but he won't acknowledge, publicly at least, that they are on the verge of gaining a distinction rare in the National League in recent years. 
 John Burkett and Bill Swift can become only the second pair of teammates in nearly a quarter century to become 20-game winners. Burkett has an 18-4 record, Swift a 17-5 mark. No one else in the league has more than 13 victories.
But old spoilsport Pole said: "They haven't done it yet. I had an experience in 1988 with a kid who was 15-1 at the All-Star break, and he wound up 18-7 or something like that."
Greg Maddux actually had a 15-3 record at the All-Star break that season and finished 18-8, but Pole made his point. Nothing is guaranteed, especially with something as fragile as pitching arms. Short of suffering disabling injuries, though, Burkett and Swift seem certain to gain the victories they need for 20.
They would then be the first 20-game winning teammates in the National League since Joaquin Andujar and John Tudor of St. Louis in 1985 and only the second since 1969. The last time the Giants had two 20-game winners was in 1966, when Juan Marichal and Gaylord Perry reached that plateau.
"They complement each other," Pole said of his prized pupils. "We have a good defense. These guys throw strikes; they make guys put the ball in play. The defense knows the ball can be hit in their direction at any time. And with our offense, if they keep the game close, we can win at any time."
The Giants have won 38 of the 49 times Burkett and Swift have started. The Giants -- and the pitchers -- have compiled a 14-2 record since Swift last lost, to the Mets of all people, July 3. Swift has won seven times in seven starts since then. Burkett has won his last five starts.
"They make adjustments, they're open to suggestions, they follow signs, they're coachable, they're bright, they're what you want in pitchers," Pole said. "Both have a good feel for pitching. It's something you can bring out in a guy, but you can't pound into a guy. They have good arms, know how to change speeds and don't panic when they get into a predicament."
Swift found himself in a predicament last season. Strictly a relief pitcher the year before with Seattle, Swift became a starter -- indeed, he was the opening-day starter -- for the Giants. But the pitching load might have been too much too soon, and he developed problems in his right shoulder, twice going on the disabled list and finishing the season in relief.
He also finished the season with a league-low 2.08 earned run average.
Swift, the club decided, would start, but Manager Dusty Baker and Pole would closely watch the number of pitches he threw and innings he worked.
 
Swift Was Monitored
 "We wanted to monitor him early in the season, try to keep him below 100 pitches," Pole said. "He's very conservative with his pitches. He was getting through seven or eight innings with 90 pitches."
Swift hasn't pitched a complete game in his 24 starts.
"If you have opportunities to take him out of the game when he doesn't have to complete it, you take him out," Pole said. "We don't have many complete games, only three. These guys could each have five or six complete games, but we thought it was better to let someone else complete the game. We've got six guys in our bullpen, and it's a very capable bullpen."
Swift, 31 years old, is a complete game, or nine innings, away from matching his busiest season -- 174 2/3 innings.
Burkett, who in winning a total of 39 times the previous three seasons indicated he was blossoming into a top-flight pitcher, was buoyed by the Giants' signing of Barry Bonds during the offseason.
"When we acquired Bonds, he really started to bear down and accelerated his off-season program," Quinn said. "It was time to step it up a notch."
As potent as the Bonds-bombarding offense has been, Burkett and Swift have not won just because of the runs scored for them. Besides a career-high victory total, the 28-year-old Burkett has a 3.09 earned run average, nearly a full run below his career 3.92 mark. Swift is even more stingy at 2.61.
Before the season, no one mentioned the Giants' pitching staff in the same conversation that included the Atlanta Braves' contingent, but the Giants now are a close second to the Braves.
 
The Tiger Barrage
 In scoring 47 runs in three successive games against Baltimore last week, the Detroit Tigers surpassed their 45-run assault against Minnesota in April. Only one other American League team has scored as many as 30 runs in three consecutive games against the same team. The Yankees amassed 32 runs against Oakland last month. The National League high is 39, Philadelphia battering Colorado.
The Tigers have scored 10 or more runs 15 times, erupting for 20 twice in April four days apart. The most bizarre aspect of their scoring splurges: In the seven games in which they have scored 15 or more runs, Cecil Fielder, who is in position to lead the major leagues in runs batted in for an unprecedented fourth straight season, drove in only four runs of the 120 scored. He hit no home runs in those seven games. He drove in only one run in each of the three-game explosions against the Twins and the Orioles.
 
The Mysterious Rockies
 Someday maybe someone will be able to explain why these things happen. Colorado loses 13 games in a row, then reels off six consecutive victories. Sunk by a pitching staff that allows nearly six earned runs a game, the team gets such sizzling performances from their starters that they allow only 11 earned runs in 45 innings for a 2.20 e.r.a. In the six games, the Rockies give up 12 runs.
In each of the first five victories, the starter pitch at least seven innings.
"So I didn't have to go to the bullpen," Manager Don Baylor said. "Normally, our downfall is the starter gets knocked out in the second or third and I have to use everybody. I've told those guys if you give me seven, we'll win the game."
Baylor, who this season will be watched by more fans than any manager in baseball history, also tells his pitchers to speed up their work habits.
"When you take all day to pitch, the defense is on their heels," he said. "We went through a bad streak where they couldn't catch the ball. When you go to three balls on every hitter, everybody is sitting back. If you're decisive about what you want to do on the mound, it keeps everybody in the game. I told Kent Bottenfield if I'm going to watch 'Sports Center,' you better pick it up. It helped him the next game."
That game was a seven-hitter in one of the Rockies' four victories over the stunned Los Angeles Dodgers.
 
'93 Season, '94 Guarantee
 Pitchers sometimes have contracts in which the following season's salary becomes guaranteed if they reach a certain number of games or innings pitched. But Jeff Russell has a unique economic agreement with the Boston Red Sox under which his 1994 salary became guaranteed with his appearance against Toronto Friday night.
The option in the reliever's contract became vested when he earned enough bonuses to push this season's pay to his magic number of $1.7 million. Added so far to his base salary of $500,000 have been bonuses worth $400,000 for games pitched, $375,000 for games finished and $500,000 for number of days on the Red Sox roster. His pay stands at $1,775,000 and, without much difficulty but with good health, could go to $2,775,000.
His 1994 salary will be $2 million or whatever he earns this year.
 
Owners' Woes
 The second day of the owners' economic summit meeting in Kohler, Wis., began with owners of five wealthy clubs, including George Steinbrenner of the Yankees and Peter O'Malley of the Dodgers, walking through a side door of the building where the meeting was being held. A minute later, the owners walked sheepishly back through the door to the street. That entrance did not lead to the meeting room.
The day ended, about 15 hours later, with all of the owners escaping from Kohler under dark of night in half a dozen vans. The owners had not made their reservations at the American Club through Thursday night, and they had to go elsewhere to sleep or get their private planes.
Town residents, attracted by the television lights, stood on Highland Drive and Orchard Road watching the spectacle. The owners and their aides did not look happy.
Earlier in the day, Richard Ravitch, the engineer of the revenue-sharing effort, was talking with reporters. He looked tired as he began to tell a joke, then paused.
"I have to think about it before I start," he said. "I'd look foolish if I started it and couldn't finish it."
That also was the problem he was trying desperately to avoid with his revenue-sharing effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (72%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); WASHINGTON, USA (72%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); CONSERVATISM (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); 

PERSON: POLE, DICK; CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



397 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Stadium Drama: Parking vs. Charm

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
In the battle for the affections of George M. Steinbrenner 3d, New York City is trying to be a good landlord at Yankee Stadium, but city and state officials know New Jersey will woo the club with assurances that three million fans per season would attend a state-of-the-art ball park -- more than has ever filed through the team's Bronx turnstiles.
"They're courting him with charm," said Ellen Baer, the chief of staff for New York City's First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel. "We're courting him with parking spaces." 
 Robert Mulcahy, the president of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority told the MSG Network last week: "We're trying to put forth what we have to offer in New Jersey, and we think that's a lot. There's no question in my mind that this would be a three million attendance deal."
The current spasm of news and speculation since June about which option Steinbrenner will choose -- stay in the Bronx, go south to Manhattan's West Side Long Island Rail Road storage yards, or decamp for one of several New Jersey sites -- will probably be the overture to the real ball park opera a few years from now as the expiration of the Yankee Stadium lease in 2002 draws nigh.
"Everyone will forget in three years the things being said now and this will happen again," said Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer.
Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, has been relatively silent on the issue, uncharacteristically for him. His spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, said the owner had made no decision and, for now, only wants the city to live up to the current 30-year Yankee Stadium lease by providing, among other things, the promised 6,900 parking spots.
To that end, staff members of the Yankees and Barry Sullivan, the Deputy Mayor for economic development, spent four hours one recent day counting parking spots, space-by-space, in the garages and lots that surround the stadium. It is one of several similar counts that differ slightly depending on whether it is a game day or not. The most recent tally came up a little short, said Rubenstein.
Baer said the actual count is irrelevant. "You know, 6,900 spots is not enough," she said. "They're entitled to 6,900 and it's not enough."
Steinbrenner has squawked about being short several hundred spots in the past, but utilization of the spaces has only recently become an issue with the Yankees' renaissance in the American League East standing. "Before this year, nobody cared," said Betsy Gotbaum, the city's Parks Commissioner. "Nobody was in those spots anyway."
 
Tending to Short-Term Demands
 The city is tending to the short-term because Steinbrenner won't discuss the long-term until he trusts his immediate concerns are addressed. Steinbrenner is testing the city's fidelity to the lease, much as he proclaimed a recent homestand "test week," to gauge fans' desire to visit Yankee Stadium. "Steinbrenner wants his contract fulfilled permanently," Rubenstein said.
In its emerging role as a good landlord, the city arranged temporary parking on the ball field at Macombs Dam Park during the recent Blue Jays series, which drew 192,000 fans, shifted long-term parking tenants out of spaces designated for fans and into a supermarket lot, tried to improve traffic flow off the Major Deegan Expressway, cleaned up the garbage-strewn Deegan and increased police patrols of the parking areas.
 
Traffic Snarls From the Air
 No time frame has been set on Steinbrenner's test of the city's faith. But, as if to show the city can still do more, Steinbrenner hired a helicopter during the recent series against the Blue Jays to demonstrate the game-time traffic snarl along the Deegan. Passengers along for the aerial view included a camera crew from WABC-TV and a photographer from The New York Post.
"It took two to three hours to get to the ballpark," said Rubenstein.
Ferrer thinks all the talk about parking, crime and traffic obscures Steinbrenner's true agenda. Ferrer has been a frequent critic of Steinbrenner, but he has been no fan of the city either, suing the city earlier this month to force it to repair rutted Bronx roadways.
"If you negotiate, rise above the nonsense and get to the point," Ferrer said, "the ultimate issue here is dollars. "
Ferrer incurred the wrath of Yankees officials recently when, after attending a Yankees-Blue Jays game, he said the team had "fudged" figures downward when announcing attendance of 48,000. "I was there," he said. "Nobody can tell me there were 9,000 empty seats. I don't make dangerous charges." The Stadium seating capacity is 57,545.
Although Rubenstein said, "Steinbrenner was miffed by Ferrer's eyeball count and said, 'We'd never do anything like that,' " Steinbrenner has nontheless hired the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand to audit the figures.
 
Pitching Not Parking
 Ferrer said there is a practical cure for substandard attendance.
"It's not parking," he said. "It's pitching."
An ongoing audit by the City Controller's office continues to slow a possible settlement of financial issues between the city and the Yankees. The city is poring over invoices submitted by the Yankees for maintenance it paid in 1990, 1991 and 1992, which total $8.7 million. During that time, the Yankees have withheld payment of their stadium rent, computed at $6.1 million.
The Yankees have subsequently withheld electricity and parking payments since 1991 because of the city's laxness in repaying the maintenance money, which is long overdue. "They're not doing anything illegal," said Joanne Imohiosen, assistant commissioner of revenue for the Parks Department. "There's no doubt that we owe them money."
The city wants to wrap this issue into a settlement of the controller's 1991 audit that said the Yankees owed the city $709,483 in 1989 cable TV payments, and $220,000 more from luxury box income. The Yankees argue the figure should be $103,318. "This doesn't relate to a new lease," Imohoisen said.
 
Politics Keeps Noise Down

But in a larger sense, everything is being done to sign Steinbrenner to a future lease, wherever that might be. Outright contentiousness with the city has been submerged during the mayoral election year, as Sullivan, a publicity-shy former banker, has become Mayor David N. Dinkins's quiet agent to the Yankees.
Quiet, too, is talk about the West Side rail yard option for the Yankees. Community Board 4, which has jurisdiction in the area, has urged New York Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to abandon the idea. Cuomo had raised the possibility in early July of shifting the Yankees to a $500 million ball park as a counter to what New Jersey would offer and if the state and city cannot satisfy Steinbrenner in the Bronx. "There have been no recent talks," said Rubenstein.
More vocal recently have been New Jersey officials. The authority's Mulcahy says he won't negotiate in the press, and that he has made no offers to Steinbrenner. Mulcahy and Jon Hanson, an authority board member, are known to be friends of the Yankees owner, who races horses at the Meadowlands Racetrack.
 
New Jersey Raises Voice

New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio said last week: "No one's going to be talking seriously about specifics until there is an understanding that someone is serious about coming here." His press secretary, John Shure, added, "There have been talks involving the state and the Yankees."
A report last week in The Record of Hackensack said the authority was preparing a $250 million stadium plan for October presentation to Steinbrenner. John Samerjan, a spokesman for the authority, said, "I won't get into that."
Meanwhile, Neil Brown, a spokesman for the Public Service Electric & Gas Company, said the authority recently asked about the availability of a 155-acre tract the utility owns west of the Hudson Generating Station in Jersey City.
"We said we would work with them if it came to pass," he said.
Bob Hughey, Gov. Florio's outgoing chief of economic recovery, said the state has looked at "three to five sites," including one in the Meadowlands area, where Giants Stadium, Brendan Byrne Arena and the Meadowlands Racetrack are located. If Steinbrenner does not re-enlist in the Bronx, Hughey said: "We'd put our concept into play. If it's not the Bronx, then we make as much sense as the Manhattan Yankees."
As for any October deadline for presenting a plan to Steinbrenner, Hughey said: "I don't think the situation is moving that quickly."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC) STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); 

PERSON: STEINBRENNER, GEORGE M 3D; SANDOMIR, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



398 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: What's Wrong With Buying Black

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I don't know how blacks will react to the suggestion that they "buy black," even to the point of seeking out black physicians. But I know how I would reply if anyone told me to "buy female." I intend to keep spending my hard-earned money where I can get the best product or service for the best price, regardless of the race or sex of the provider. And I can't help wondering whether if the author were facing surgery, he would look for anything other than the best surgeon he could find (who, of course, might or might not be black).
 
FELICIA ACKERMAN
Providence, R.I., Aug. 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (69%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (69%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (86%); 

PERSON: ACKERMAN, FELICIA

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



399 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Air Fares: Poor Case, Good Verdict

 BODY:
Predatory pricing. That's what Continental and Northwest accused American Airlines of doing last summer when it cut air fares. American, it was alleged, set prices below costs in an attempt to drive competitors out of business; then, having monopolized the market, American planned to raise prices to, well, sky-high levels.
The accusation was feeble. And the jury needed only a couple of hours to say so. The jurors figured out that American wasn't stupid enough, first, to intentionally rack up huge losses to eliminate current rivals and then lose much more to keep future rivals from competing after it tried to recoup its losses by raising its fares. 
 Poor case. Sound verdict. But what's noteworthy, and disturbing, is that American had to spend $20 million defending itself; Continental and Northwest also spent millions. There's something seriously awry when financially ailing companies throw away millions battling over dubious charges.
To put the charges brought against American in perspective, guess how many examples of such predatory pricing economists have documented over the past 30 or 40 years? Thousands? Hundreds? The answer, according to Prof. Frederic Scherer of Harvard, is, perhaps, two. There might have been a case in the rocket fuel industry. And there probably was a failed attempt in the computer equipment industry. American Airlines, in other words, spent $20 million defending itself against charges involving a virtually nonexistent practice.
What American tried to do last summer was to put an end to the industry's irrational, and bankrupting, fare structure. Travelers were being offered a blizzard of discounts that made comparative shopping nearly impossible. American proposed cutting unrestricted fares, but also eliminating almost all of the discounts. It hoped its competition would go along with the simplified fare structure; the competitors didn't.
Searching for explanations for the suit is frustrating. The antitrust laws aren't the problem, because the Supreme Court has set down strict conditions for convicting a firm of predation. Somehow Continental and Northwest didn't seem to notice. The bankruptcy laws might have given a financially weak carrier like Continental a go-for-broke attitude: spending money it didn't have in a desperate leap for a billion-dollar jackpot. All it needed was this: Its high-priced lawyers had to sell a fantasy to lay jurors.
The proceedings in Galveston, Tex., weren't just wasteful; they were chilling. Suppose the verdict had gone the other way. Then U.S. carriers would have been told: Don't compete, don't cut prices because competition has now been declared illegal. That would have turned a wasteful exercise into an economic fiasco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: CAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: GALVESTON, TX, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; EDITORIALS; FARES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS AIRLINES (91%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); AIR FARES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LITIGATION (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993



400 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: When Banks Make Currency Go Up and Down;
No Boon to U.S.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Money Woes in Europe May Aid U.S." (Business Day, Aug. 5): Some North American economists interpret the European currency crisis as having a positive effect for the United States. They argue that other European states have finally followed Britain's decision of 1992 and distanced themselves from the problems of a dominant, ailing Germany. 
 Now, so the thinking goes, these countries can lower their interest rates to stimulate their economies. It will only be a matter of time until they will regain their old economic strength. Then they can help their neighbors and trading partners left behind (including the United States).
This interpretation is only partly true. It is important first to understand that the driving force behind currency realignment was the desire of European countries to lower their interest rates independent of Germany. Lower interest rates mean a de facto currency devaluation against the mark and the dollar.
Weaker European currencies hurt American exports because potential European purchasers of American-made products will have to pay more than before devaluation. As a result, they will tend to purchase a cheaper domestic product, as opposed to more expensive imported goods. Sales of American cars in Europe serve as an example. Since America runs a trade surplus with Europe, any advantages for cheaper purchases of American products overseas are negligible. It will certainly not help the United States out of the recession.
I believe large currency fluctuations are not a good idea. Despite all modern hedging techniques, most midsize enterprises see strong fluctuation as an undesirable risk. It makes trading with overseas partners very unpredictable. As a consequence, most of these companies will concentrate on the domestic market and ignore opportunities in foreign markets. Ultimately, this behavior leads to fewer investments and, slowly, to decreased competitiveness by those corporations in world markets.
In addition, currency fluctuations are further being fueled by speculators in it for the quick buck. Think, for example, of George Soros, the successful and respected fund manager who reportedly made about $1 billion betting on the British pound in 1992. This money, of course, will be taken out of the economy affected.
Last, but not least, today's realignment of prices will not be the last. Others are likely to follow. Again, the result will be more instability in Europe. Overall, it will result in a less predictable relationship between Europe and its American trading partner. And this is not in North America's interest.
 
PETER SCHOLLA
Senior Vice President
Credit Suisse Asset Management
Miami, Aug. 6, 1993

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); CREDIT SUISSE ASSET MANAGEMENT (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); BRITISH POUND (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: SCHOLLA, PETER GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993

 
